ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 31-32021, the minutes of the PST meeting, of Wednesday 31 March 2021, with regard to the vote on the whole draft law, were ratified by the Bureau: "Urgent arrangements for the protection of public health against the continuing consequences of the CIVID Pandemic -19, the development, social protection and the reopening of courts and other matters"]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK The only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: "The necessary arrangements for harmonising Greek legislation with the revised, with effect from 1-2021, the Anti-Donoping Code of the World Anti-Donoping Organization". The Conference of Presidents decided, at its meeting on 24 March 2021, to discuss the draft law at a single sitting, on the principle and on the articles. With regard to the organisation of the debate, it is naturally proposed that the rapporteurs, the special speakers and the parliamentary representatives should be involved. A first cycle of priority is proposed, including one speaker from each parliamentary group and a twelve-member speaker with the following ratio, five from the New Democracy, three from the SYRIZA, one from the Change Movement, one from the Communist Party of Greece, one from the Greek Solution and one from the Mer25. With a teleconferencing service, the Webex platform, a 12-mile circle of speakers is also proposed, with the same ratio. The name of the speaker has already been assigned by the Parliamentary Groups by letters. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u2	The House has agreed. I would ask the rapporteurs, the Parliamentary Representatives, the Minister and the speakers to keep track of times. The rapporteur of the new Republic, Mr Xenophon, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u3	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the resolution of this bill harmonises the Greek legal order with the new, revised and updated Antidopting Code of the WADA World Organisation and indeed at a particularly important time, since this year's year we all hope that it will be the headline for the relaunch of sport as a whole at a global level, starting from the leading sports event of the Olympic Games next summer. Before presenting to you the basic principles governing this legislation, as well as the individual details of its structure, as they have emerged in the debate in the committee responsible, let me begin my speech with the value of the sporting ideal, the euphoria and the principles accompanying sport, which come in direct contrast and inter-dimensional confrontation with the pharmacopoeia of pharmacopoeia. Ladies and gentlemen, the athletic ideal, as we were already inherited from the ancient Greek spirit, was not just about the physical crack of the athlete, but was also a reflection primarily of the mind and soul training. The battle of the body was in touch with the discipline of the spirit, with the aim of highlighting the mental beauty, in a harmonious balance, which was guided by the measure, the aristotle mediacy, as the supreme good. Besides, the daphnosters with cortinum Olympics of ancient times are considered first among equals, blessed by the chosen divine touch that distinguished them for their unparalleled performance in the gymnastics and the brave morality of their character. Such was the influence and radiation of their victory in an athletic organization, so that their fellow citizens as a sign of respect, pride and majesty demolished some of the walls of their cities. Accordingly, however, the reproach of a false victory, a victory guaranteed by it's stumbling or bribery or forbidden substance was equally indelible and perpetual. The punishment was brutal, painful and embarrassing for the offender, while the Greek judges, the racing judges, raised the Zanes, the famous statues in which the names of the athletes who violated the principles and the sports ideals were recorded in the case of corruption. Since then, ladies and gentlemen, the evolution of medical science, which has constantly been escalating and surpassing the scientific thresholds of sporting performance, the distortion of euphoria, the inexhaustible vanity of victory without any moral background, but also the brutal exploitation of young athletes from epilepsy who are speculating in dreams and ambitions, have led to doping, which has now taken the dimensions of a morbid social phenomenon not only at the level of championship but also at the level of amateur athletes of the next door. The noble pursuit of 'citius, altius, forties' has been significantly distorted by the arrogant, free of any cost, where a billion-billion-dollar dance is set each year in many competitions. A great deal of the characteristic Indians of the time, glorified in the stadiums and the stadiums and proved to be the final genocide of the banned substances. From the athletes of the former East Germany, the Canadian sprinter Ben Johnson to the top biker Lance Armstrong, the use of banned substances is a guilty secret in the field of high-protected sport and, unfortunately, from time to time - and if we do not hide behind our fingers - such incidents have also occurred in Greek missions, which have disappointed Greek society and ate the prestige of Greek sport. The World Organisation, in cooperation with national legal classes, has for many years been engaged in combating the use of banned substances, pharmacology, and also in the consolidation of anti-doping control by specific methods, a clear institutional framework and heavy sanctions. This bill comes to incorporate the updated Code of the World Antidopting Organization, which constantly upgrades its institutional framework in order to intervene preventively and repressively, since the race against scientific achievements in the banned substances is lasting and high intensity. Allow me, however, ladies and gentlemen, before I provide you with more detailed details of the draft law, which is a highly technical text, to make an exception in order to bring about pathogenesies and oligopoly, which fortunately belong to the past, on the issue of anti-doping coding, because of catastrophic oligarchs, mistakes and laziness of the previous government. The SYRIZA Government, ladies and gentlemen, voted in 2016 to n.4373, incorporating the then revised Antidopting Code, which the World Organisation established in 2015, after a long and long process of revision, which began in 2011 and was completed following a series of major consultations and dialogues. With the taking up of the New Democracy government's duties, we were revealed, in all its dimension, the perfect and chaotic situation in which the institutional framework of the anti-doping control in Greece was reached. The main pillars that make up our country were in collapse, with a visible risk of exclusion of our athletes from all international sports events. All World Organisation inspections for the days SYRIZA revealed the country's horrifying compliance gap with international standards' institutional specifications. In particular, the National Doping Combat Council, the ESKAN, in other words, as an existing structure of the General Secretariat of Sports, was insufficient to support its role and present a shortage of staff, infrastructure and operational independence. At the same time, due to the frugality of the SYRIZA government, the anti-doping control laboratory has gone into such an inconvenience and irreversible situation that it has lost its accreditation. What does that mean, ladies and gentlemen? It means very simply that the samples of the checks would not bring an accredited and official analysis, resulting in the exclusion of our athletes from all international sports events, with incalculable costs and economics, as well as a charm. We prevented this catastrophic development by signing a contract with a third country, so that the samples of controls on Greek athletes can be sent to their accredited workshop to carry out the analysis in accordance with the specifications of the World Organisation. Since the first day that today's leadership of the Ministry of Sports took office, it proceeded directly and drastically to corrective actions to be fully ready and consistent with the outgoing control of the World Organisation this summer. But let us see in summary what has been done so far by the Ministry's current leadership. There's been a replacement of the troubled ECAN. His mission was upgraded with the establishment of the National Anti-Doping Agency, the EECAN. Its complete function will take flesh and bone within the next period of time. The new organization will reposition our country to an unintelligible place on the international sporting precinct from the anomaly that SYRIZA has brought it to the issue of anti-doping. At the same time, all the necessary procedures and actions were launched to regain the accreditation of the Athens Lab in collaboration with the Research Centre "Democritus". Any bureaucratic obstacles that arise are overcome in order to regain our laboratory's accreditation at the next inspection of the organization to be a fact and to be a backdrop for the new era in Greek anti-doping control. The competition for the full equipment of the laboratory is in the final straight line. All of this, ladies and gentlemen, has taken place in less than a year and a half, with struggling and laborious efforts which have managed to restore the lost greed in our country and to restore its credibility and prestige. From where, in the rule of SYRIZA, the government has constantly come up with critical letters from the World Organisation, full of comments warning about the upcoming debacle, today and after all, the headship of the Ministry receives congratulations and credit from the President of WADA himself, Witold Banka, for the effective work that has been done, for the lost ground that has been covered at such short notice and the positive assessment of our country by the World Organisation. Let us also mention a statistical element which is of particular value and bears witness to the work that has been done all along and which the Minister has pointed out in his speech to the committee responsible. Only in the first quarter of the year that we are in progress were 100 checks carried out at the same time as in the years 2016 to 2018 they were only two hundred. And today, ladies and gentlemen, we are taking another step to incorporate in Greek the revised World Organisation Anti-Doping Code. As I have said, this is a particularly technical text of twenty-four total articles, but it adopts best practices in the scientific approach, method and verification of samples and anti-doping checks. In the first Article, the definitions laid down in this Legislation shall be detailed, the definition of doping and the infringements of its rules and the list of prohibited substances and methods shall be set out in detail, and the procedure for analysing the samples and how the results are managed shall be described. Article 8 of the Law provides for the judicial procedure and the procedural dimension of the issue of its legal treatment. In particular, reference is made to the disciplinary procedure and the disciplinary bodies which are seized after the indication of an anti-doping rule violation. The right to a fair hearing and the procedural procedure for the proceedings shall be established. A competent judiciary is designated as the Primary Disciplinary Committee of the National Anti-Doping Organisation. A second-level body is the ASEAN and an appeal is also established in the International Court of Appeal. Articles 9 to 12 define the penalties and penalties for athletes, teams and federations, and provide for the automatic cancellation of all the duties and privileges of the offenders. Article 18 of the bill is of particular importance, since the National Antidopong Agency, which designs, implements, evaluates and monitors information, education and prevention programmes for non-doping sports, in accordance with the requirements of the Code and international standard for education. It supports the active participation of athletes and their support staff in such programs. The final part of the legislation shall be specified in detail the responsibilities and obligations of all the persons and bodies involved concerning the anti-dumping rules, its prevention and prevention. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, to conclude my speech, I would like to emphasise the political will and firm orientation of the New Democracy Government and of the Ministry's leadership not only to correct the dreadful situation they have received, but also to leave a reserve at the level of anti-monitoring control in Greek sport. Doping is a social scourge, similar to that of drugs that has taken very large social dimensions and has scattered sorrows in many families. We must apply the institutional framework for preventing doping to ensure that we do not monitor the dreams of young children, our children, crushed into the millstones of banned substances and unscrupulous people, who must be expelled from the courts, gyms, swimming pools and every area of exercise. Sports and rules are a model hatchery and a high ideal greenhouse. We are today legislating the antidote on a banned medicine. It is an obligation, with a deep moral dimension and no asterisk, when health and human life are at stake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The SYRIZA rapporteur, Mrs Kallipe Vetta, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the WADA Code of Anti-Doping in the Committee on Education has shown that the Government, as well as in the field of sport, is moving with communal tricks, institutional arbitrariness and unscrupulous attacks on opposition, while it governs twenty months. Initially, to mention that we are positive about harmonising the country with the WADA Code, as it was adopted on 7 November 2019 and is in force internationally as of 1 January 2021. WADA's updated Antidopting Code has the same logic as previous ones. The definitions and scope of the rules are set out, then the sanctions procedure and, finally, the provisions on the training of athletes and managers have been followed, and a chapter on the rights of athletes has been added during the audit procedure. Any reinforcement of the state's arsenal in the fight against doping finds us in agreement. This struggle is parallel and intrinsic to the fight against commercialisation, against, that is, in the values of euphoria, which we are taking over over over time when other governments in the past were indifferent to athletes' documentary programs. In fact, we have called for efforts to combat the doping phenomenon, which also emphases in the areas of youth exercise, as, unfortunately, some young people because of distorted standards resort to illegal and dangerous substances to increase muscle power and mass, narrating their health and future. The fight must, as we have said, be lasting and irresponsible. That is why in 2016, the SYRIZA government was the first to incorporate the anti-doping code that was in place at the time. At the same time, SYRIZA proceeded to the following measures. I'm going to go over headlines. He quadrupled the budget for the ESRB. He paid off the debts to the samplers. He reclaimed and succeeded in getting for the benefit of the public debts from controls - by groups and agencies totalling EUR 2.4 million. It has repaid debts to international organisations. He built the Doping National Platform. He organised the Council of Europe Conference on Combating Doping in the Zappeio Megaron in 2018. For these actions, we have had tangible and identifiable results. I'll submit four documents to the Minutes. The first two concern the rate of compliance and harmonisation of Greece with the UNESCO International Convention on Doping. Let me mention that 2009 was 60%, in 2015 at 75% and in 2017 at 95%. The other two documents I will submit, concern a formal update of the permanent Greek delegation to UNESCO dated 13 December 2018, which state that due to the Ministry's actions - that is, the establishment of a compliance platform with the participation of co-legislative ministries - Greece was fully in line with international doping obligations. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Kallipe Vetta, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] For the anti-doping workshop, as received by SYRIZA, i.e. without an autonomous budget, with unrealistic debts, subordinated and outdated equipment, we told you in committee. We also told you about the solutions given, for example by the transfer to "Democritus", which you voted against, to find it before you in October 2019, when WADA calmed the certification of the Athens workshop. Today, a year and a half after the penalty, we find that the laboratory has not yet taken the certification back, while the EEC, which was already provided for in early 2019, has been in October 2020, where the ministerial decision has been taken, as the Minister informed us. And who's to blame for these delays? It's probably because of SYRIZA, as the Minister told us, of course. He must have forgotten that there were elections in July 2019 and since then he has been responsible for solving the problems in sport and not for exercising opposition. If he wants to know more about anti-doping, he can ask Mr. Mavrotas because in Greece the first sample strike in the world occurred in 2010, because the ISO certification of the OAS Doping Control Agency has been lost, because the New Democracy Governments did not do anything to create an independent EEC. His answers will enlighten you. I would like to take this opportunity to refer to a number of points which have been left unanswered in relation to the problems of sport. First of all, I would like to refer to the functioning of sport during the pandemic, when we are one of the few countries in Europe that closed everything down. At the same time, no direct financial support to athletes, coaches, executives, referees and judges. Of course, it is not unprecedented for the New Democracy Government. The same has happened to the people of culture, to the free professionals, to the farmers. No support. Just communication. There was also no provision for integrating sport into the National Recovery Fund, announced yesterday. And that's where sport is absent. Finally, because you have provoked us for our reports on your unprecedented speech, Minister, in the elections to the sports federations, I will present for the Practical Declaration by Nikos Tzortzoglou, President of the EEA of Heraklion, who argued that his long-standing sporting path has never been such an intervention in elections such as that of Mr Aygeakis. I should like to give you a position of Mr Georgeglou. He said: 'State official is constantly coming out and blackmailing for the election of certain persons and even calls them unjust and irresponsible the electors of the associations, namely all of us, if we do not.' I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Kallipe Vetta, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] You know that statement, Mr. Augenakis. If you have any questions, however, you can request explanations from your compatriot, with whom you, in fact, were on the New Democracy list in the 2019 elections. A third deposit for the Minutes relates to a previous article from the website in.gr, where we have, among other things, references. Here's what he wrote. "Great politically and insignificant football was led himself and led the government to a heavier defeat. Mr. Aggenakis saw his shade at night on the wall and believed he was a great and a train. The course of Mr Aushakis toward political dismantling can no longer be stopped. In any elementaryly serious country, the political leader of sport - in our case Mr. Eleftherios Aygeakis - would already have given up his resignation at the Prime Minister's disposal and would have picked things up from his office." These were reported on the website in.gr. I'm filing that, too. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Kallipe Vetta, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] I understand that it's a difficult time to deceive him, insult him, and accuse him of people who wouldn't expect it. However, when one gets involved where one does not have an institutional role, when one adopts practical illusions and condemnable ones, these are, unfortunately, the consequences. Minister, if it's a lie and a hammer, get out clearly and make a statement that you didn't have chosen and dismissals, interlocutors and exiles. The Step of the House, I think, is being offered to make this statement. Don't you dare? But I think the Minister will not do that, because it is the truth that he has intervened and failed. He has sometimes experienced political disdain and disapproval during his term of office, from the unprecedented in international times to the government's contacts with the International Federation of Football to the fact that his delayed, cowardice and fragmented initiatives to relaunch sport met the indifference and refusal of other members of the government. Three has sinned no man of wisdom, Minister. The question that cannot be answered is now clear. How are you going to have an institutional discussion with the newly elected players in sports federations, when you fought for the majority of the winners not to be elected, in the end, a combination? Ladies and gentlemen, we are voting in favour of the bill on the ratification of the International Anti-Doping Code, but having long withdrew our confidence and tolerance to the government's policy on sport. The world of sport, particularly athletes, coaches and executives of the space, who are fed daily on the stadiums, deserve another policy. And it's certain they'll have it sooner than some people count. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u6	Mrs Vetta, I thank you and especially for the time she has taken. I now give the floor to Mr Dimitrios Konstantopoulos, the special speaker from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we are today discussing the harmonisation of our national legislation with the new Anti-Dumping World Organisation Code, and this at a difficult time, at a time when sport around the world is experiencing a crisis in all its forms and has even been hit by the development of pandemic. In our country, we have seen the paradox, with complaints from citizens, institutions and bodies - which is why we have tabled a question to the Minister - where, instead of ensuring the financing of the operation of municipal sports facilities, as is required by law, in order to return to normality and to return to the life of the citizens, we have seen the Ministry make the mayors irresponsible, in fact, out of sports spaces and their legitimate associations. That is, essentially, to abolish and exclude programmes of mass sport, programmes aimed at citizens, particularly at the third age and the CMEA, and also at informal groups of citizens and individuals, I would say, which are not part of an organised association or association. The conclusions, ladies and gentlemen, are yours. Now, with regard to the bill, doping, ladies and gentlemen, is a modern scourge in the field of sport. It leads, in fact, to the commercialisation of sport and, of course, undermines the fundamental right to sport in healthy conditions, without, of course, the use of any substances, particularly today where, in the midst of the unprecedented pandemic, doping controls have been restricted and the voices of athletes who are worried about increased, I would say, infringements are increasing. Ladies and gentlemen, a few months ago in the sports report on CNN I saw Michael Phelps saying that, with excellent '10', Tokyo Olympics would be clean around '4' with '5' - I was troubled - and that is because controls have been reduced, as well as because of reduced sporting events. According to WADA, in September the controls were less than 20%. The fight against doping is therefore of fundamental importance, ladies and gentlemen, for all of us, of course, to promote the spirit and the fight. Also to protect athletes and, of course, to ensure healthy competition. Ladies and gentlemen, we are a few months before Tokyo's Olympic and Paralympic Games. Here, then, we need to look at the arrangements to be made, and they also provide a symbolism, since it does not hurt, ladies and gentlemen, any more than the Olympic Games from doping. From doping the euphoria is crumbling. With this bill, Minister, Greek legislation is in line with the new World Antidoping Organization Code. The WADA Code has already entered into force since 1-1-2021 and is, I would say, the foundation stone of the global anti-doping programme. It sets out an integrated and effective institutional framework for combating doping on the one hand in terms of repression and sanctions and, on the other hand, in terms of prevention. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are discussing brings the Greek legal order to the WADA Code, replacing as a whole the Law 4376/2016 that was passed by the previous SYRIZA Government - ANEL which was practically valid until today. Now the changes that are coming are important and many reflect in the modern approach to the doping phenomenon, based of course on developments in medicine and of course in technology. It should be stressed here that the Code, ladies and gentlemen, introduces two new international standards, firstly, the international standard for managing results and, secondly, the international standard for education. This has to be kept. It must also be stressed, Minister, that at the heart of the assessment is now being made on the basis of the characteristics of each case and not, of course, on an unreasonable application of sanctions. So, ladies and gentlemen, the notion of aggravating circumstances which lead to more severe punishment is being introduced, for example, when many and multiple banned substances have been used, and this should be taken into account. On the other hand, reduced penalties are provided for where the athletes themselves confess to the infringement and of course confess to the infringement before they receive notification for sampling. After all, what needs to be done, Minister, is that the new code emphasises the protection of the rights of athletes and that is something very important. The aim is to ensure that each athlete, in order to know the framework for the control of doping, has received the appropriate training for it and to have a fair trial, when he is charged with an infringement, by applying the principles of proportionality. Here, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that for the first time there is a special provision for athletes who have received abused substances. Less sanctions are imposed on these athletes if they demonstrate that the use has taken place outside the race and that it is not related to sporting performance and performance, as well as to further reduce sanctions if they are included in a rehab programme. Ladies and gentlemen, another significant change which brings about the new institutional framework is the encouragement of athletes and others, and particularly of sport, to denounce doping incidents. It should be stressed here that intimidation, threats, retaliations aimed at preventing complaints of doping are now being punished as a violation of our Criminal Code. After all, it is a self-evident obligation for the state to protect those in a fragile position. Finally, I would like to refer to the application of the code to third parties other than athletes. So it is now clear that the members of the management of sports federations, as well as the support staff of athletes, such as trainers, coaches, are bound by doping rules. I come to the National Doping Control Agency, the EEC. Ladies and gentlemen, the EEC will be responsible for our country's implementation of the Antidoping Code. I would remind you that its establishment as a legal person under private law, supervised and subsidised by the General Secretariat of Sports, was already provided for by Law 4049/2012. However, we arrived in October 2020, eight years later, in order to issue a presidential decree setting out the organisation and functioning of the new organisation replaced by the ETUC, i.e. the Doping National Anti-Fraud Council, and we have now been awaiting an accreditation act since the time to certify the EEC's readiness to act. Minister, the Ministry has already announced the establishment of the board of directors of the new organisation by decision of the Minister of Culture and Sport, as well as its grant of 1,4 million euros for 2021. Good. But there are some questions here because, on the one hand, the new agency is responsible for an important and great task and, of course, it needs to be equipped with appropriate resources and staff to be effective, because responsibilities do not matter. So here, Minister, we would like you to inform us when the normal functioning of the EECAN is going to begin, on the one hand, and, on the other, what staff at the level of officials and, of course, whether they have been recruited and under what procedure. These are questions that we have asked you in the debate in committee on the basis of which we have not received an answer. We hope to take your answer today. Minister, for us, for the PASOK, for the Change Movement, the primary objective of the new organisation must be the effectiveness and, of course, the independence of this organisation, independence from any political or party commitment, independence from every federation, independence from any sport factor. What do we want? We all want it, of course. We want transparency everywhere. Thus, Minister, the Committee on Transparency or Parliament's Committee on Forums could be consulted, and this could be done in order to select the agency's administration. So, ladies and gentlemen, there will be the guarantees of transparency for the agency and no one will be able to question anything at all. And, ladies and gentlemen, I come to the issue of the doping laboratory. The doping lab in Greece, ladies and gentlemen, lost its WADA certification on October 1, 2019, because it was considered not to cover international standards. In fact, WADA had already warned about this since 2018. However, the voice of a shepherd, ladies and gentlemen, in the wilderness. In 2019, under Law 4589/2019, the workshop was to be transferred to ‘Democritus’. However, there are months of inertia, and this is under the responsibility of the previous SYRIZA - ANEL government, so that the relevant FMD is issued late and WADA suspending the laboratory certification. This east was extended until September 2020 and continues naturally until today under your responsibility. Minister, the suspension of the laboratory certification in Greece does not honor our country and, of course, all of us. It is characteristic - I would say - that according to the WADA website, the only labs in the world that have actually lost their certification are ours, India and Thailand. Take your conclusions. So, ladies and gentlemen, the laboratory must acquire its lost ground by staffing and scientists and implementing modern equipment. You said in the debate in committee, Minister, that the recruitment of scientists and the purchase of the laboratory organs would proceed. We're waiting for it. We would, however, like here to inform us of when WADA's certification is expected to be given again to the laboratory. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of doping requires cooperation and concerted efforts from all of us with a common aim to combat it. The Anti-Doping World Organisation lays down rules at both national and international level. Our obligation is for all of us to ensure that the institutional framework is applied and effective. And, of course, here, Mr Minister, that information about doping and its risks require that, as I have said in committee, it should also be a matter of learning, but also of education, so that every citizen can experience and know the negative effects of doping on the health of athletes as well as on the quality of sport in general, since in this case we will say that if one uses these chemicals, namely dope, we will talk about manufactured and artificially fictitious ranking of the athlete. So to make everyone aware that doping is a derivative of interlocutory, global industry, as my friend, Mr Pafilis, would say, of the sporting spectacle. To enter the collective subconscious that the applause to athletes who have made use of banned substances is applause to profit, to the detriment of health. Therefore, there is a need for systematic information at school with preventive policies on the effects of doping on the health of athletes. After all of this, which I have mentioned, we are in favour of ratifying the Doping Code and of course we are voting on this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u8	I, too, thank you, Mr Colleague, and you, of course, for keeping time. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent debate on Monday 5 April 2021. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No 600/22-2021 of the New Democracy MP Pieria Xenophonta (Fota) Baraliakos to the Minister of Culture and Sports, entitled "Archimentations of Sports Federations". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 603/24-32021 by SYRIZA MP Rethymnon - Progressive Alliance Mr. Andreas Xanthos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Emergence through the non-renewal of the trade unionist doctor Kostas Katsakia". 3. The Question by MP Halkidiki of the Change Movement Mr Apostolos Pana to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Macedonia of the people of Ammoulian Halkidiki". 4. The Question No 619/29-32021 by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Manolis Synthraki to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The necessary water management projects in the Prefecture of Chania". 5. The question by No 599/22-3-2021 of the Greek Parliamentary of State Mr. Vassiliou Villiardou to the Minister of Justice, on the subject: "Addressing medical practices during the hospitalization of patients of COVID -19". 6. The Question No 602/23-32021 by Congressman B2' West Athens Department of Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas Arseni to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Scandaceous to grant CISCO 1.5 million students - three and teachers" to CISCO. B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 601/22-32021 by MP Magnesia of the New Democracy Mr Christou Bukouros to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Restructure the professional categories of football". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No. 604/26-32021 of the SYRIZA MEP - Progressive Alliance Mr. Georgios Psychoyou to the Minister of Migration and Asylum, on the subject: "It is imperative to resolve the many problems that have been created with the residence permits under the responsibility of the Ministry". 3. The Question No 613/28-32021 by the Member of the State of Change Movement Mr Georgios Kamine to the Minister of Migration and Asylum, on the subject: ‘Sustained distortive functioning of the Civilian Organisations Registry (NGO)’. 4. The Question No 621/29-32021 by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Manolis Synchronakis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The delays in the approval of town plans in the Municipal Apartments of Skalanio and Municipality of Heraklion". 5. The Question No 608/28-32021 by MP B2' Western Athens Athens Section of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas Arsenis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The hunt and poison baits have been checked." 6. The Question No 607/26-32021 by the Member of the Messinia of New Democracy Mr Pericles Manda, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Conflict of interests around the Protected Designation of Origin (PDO) Olive Kalamata". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The Question No 618/29-32021 by MP Heraklion of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr Socrates Vardakis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Releases of tourist bus drivers in the midst of a pandemic". 8. The Question by Mr Georgios Mulkiotis, Member of Parliament, to the Minister of Health, dated 614/29-32021, on "An exclusive responsibility for the government to strengthen the operation of the General Hospital of Livadia - the General Hospital of Thevas". 9. The Question No 622/29-32021 by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Manolis Synthakis, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: “The lack of staff at the EFKA service in Crete and the serious problems due to delays in the adoption of pension decisions”. 10. The Question No 609/28-32021 by MP B2' Western Athens Athens Section of Mera25 Mr Kritonas Arsenis to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: ‘Dangerous postponement of recruitments to the cleanliness of the Municipalities (time of the 3K/2018 declaration)’. 11. The Question No 620/29-32021 by MP Heraklion of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr Socrates Vardakis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Enlargement regarding the financing of the North Road Axis of Crete by the Recovery Fund". 12. The Question No 615/29-32021 by the Vice-President of Parliament and MP Arcadias of the Change Movement Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, entitled 'Television Megalopolis'. 13. Observations of the Court of Justice The Question No 610/28-32021 by MP B2' Western Athens Department of Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas Arseni to the Minister of Health, on the subject: “The government turns the “Dromocaete” into a storeroom of mental patients with a coronary.” 14. Observed. The Question No 623/29-32021 by SYRIZA MP Lassithi - Progressive Alliance Emmanuel Thrapsaniotis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Start new parts of the Hellenic Mediterranean University". 15. The Question No 616/29-32021, by Mr.Athens of the Movement of Change Mr. Konstantinos Scandalidis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Danger of enormous damage by the Greek State since the time and the way in which the Bank of Piraeus's share capital is increased." 16. Observations of the Committee of the Regions The Question No 611/28-32021 by MP B2' West Athens Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas Arsenis, Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "The olive oil is turned into an unhealthy product through the distortions of Nutri - Score". 17. The Question by MP Halkidiki of SYRIZA - A Progressive Alliance Mr.Christmas Malama to the Minister of Tourism, on the subject: "The government is stepping up uncertainty in the Halkidiki tourist economy". 18. The Question No 625/29-32021 by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: ‘A oilseed promotion plan and specific measures to support olive producers’. 19. The Question No 617/29-32021 by MP B1' North Athens Division of Mera25 Mr. Kleonas Gregoriadis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: 'State self-diagnosis test for coronary prevention'. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The number 3623/460/27-1-2021 question and application for the submission of SYRIZA MP II documents - Progressive Alliance Mr. Socrates Famelou to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "The measures of the “DITIONAL TIER” programme run counter to the obligations of recycling operators". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Boeotia of the Change Movement Mr Georgios Mulkiotis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs on "The contribution of the Employment Programmes of the Labour Force Agency (OAED) to the proper functioning of public services". 3. Question No 3929/5-2-2021 by MP B1' North Athens, SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mrs Maria - Eliza (Mariliza) Xinogiannakopoulou, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: “The Government of New Democracy does not solve the problem of workers in the cleanliness of public bodies.” 4. The question by No. 1983/23-11-2020 asked by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on "Analgesic and unacceptable interruption of electricity in shops and businesses which have been closed by a government decision". I will give the floor to the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Manolis Synchronakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr President. The Communist Party of Greece will vote "residences" in the bill on the revised Anti-Doping Code. We have always thought that there should be rules and measures against doping, but, at the same time, measures to strengthen and protect athletes, to protect and develop the sporting ideal as a social asset and a right. Unfortunately, it turns out that despite the positive arrangements of the revised code there are insufficient, even dangerous regulations, and I would say that many of them are also being punished for athletes. Otherwise, it shall prejudge methods of a protected witness under the pretext of retaliation. Who judges and in what process is the credibility of the complainant or of the informant? Who tells me that these are not malicious, anonymous complaints behind which competitive interests of companies, as they usually do? We have no delusion that a code alone can give a solution to the serious problems that exist in the field of sport and, possibly, those who consider a panacea solution to the codes or do not know or consciously lie. It is not the phenomenon of doping to fight all the codes that WADA introduces, no matter how strict the penalties exist, no matter how harmonious they are in Greek law, because - we will say it again - doping is a genuine child - not an evil child, genuine child, commercial sports, businesses, sports, sponsors' sport, connecting them in exchange and turning a people's need, a popular right to a profitable spectacle industry with victims, of course, athletes, parents, people, youth. Organised sport, even WADA itself, is not weak, although it is governed by a code of conduct. Financial scandals, bribes, rigged toys, violence, money laundering, drug use, political games and economic-interesting overlapping are some problems with a moral dimension that afflicts sport around the world over time. A second point which we wanted to raise is that even if we accept that the WADA Code is full, complete, which is not - we have mentioned - there is an issue concerning the functioning of the EEC Treaty. This newly created EECAN is coming to replace the National Doping Combat Council. The Deputy Minister was mentioned yesterday at the committee meeting. What we know is that the checks carried out are very few not just now because of the pandemic, why can someone be found to say: 'But now, because of the pandemic, it is possible to do checks when sports spaces are closed without any sporting events being carried out'. That's what used to be true. The controls that have been carried out or are carried out are overwhelmingly few and we cannot say in any sense that effective preventive control is being carried out in the doping area. It may have changed from ESKAN to EECAN, but the offices are empty, and in the midst of a pandemic it was subsidized with 1.5 million euros. We'll see how this story turns out. So, beyond the code, beyond the penalties, beyond the procedures, there is an issue that concerns the means, staff, infrastructure, which is available to an operator to do his job properly and to function as it should. For us as long as sport is a commodity, as long as it is a spectacle industry and a profitable business, doping will always be two steps forward - not one - from anti-doping, for it is precisely contributing to the profitability of business groups. It is therefore no exaggeration to say that doping cancels sport as a social asset. On what basis, then, can the phenomenon of pharmacopoeia and the logic of doping be addressed, when all governments discuss it in an environment of indifferent commercialisation of sport, which some people are aiming to gain medals and glory? The multi-dimensional theme of pharmacopoeia, of course, is not about a country or a sport. It is, as we have said, an industry with enormous profits, which is supported and blossomed because of the unacceptable and harmful philosophy of the winner by all means imposed. As several examples have shown, today's commercialised sport that is the field of action of huge multinational companies, many of which have nothing to do with sport, but with very important bishops, has shown that it also gives rise to heavy toys. The whole structure of the Olympic Games, the International Olympic Committee itself, the international federations are a multi-faceted mechanism of economic interest and manipulation of people, youth, with the trap of sporting interests. The consequences of further commercialisation that has been promoted over years either with New Democracy, either with SYRIZA or with PASOK, with politics and the European Union, are extremely negative. The company "strong Greece" and sport since the mid-1990s has become a tragedy. The pursuit of medals, championship at all costs caused the absurdity of the doping that took unprecedented proportions, destroying the health of young athletes, canceling the very essence of sport, putting science in the service of immoral pursuits. It even contributed to the absorption of almost all resources and to the shrinking of any mass amateur sport program and generally of any sport activity that does not serve profits and sports business. Without the conditions for sport to come out genuine and many talents and competition to be truly healthy, super athletes are formed, hostage to those who make them. Especially at the level that sports performances have reached today, any attempt to overcome them increasingly leads to the anabolic tunnel. Super-groups and athletes are used as models, as a mechanism of mass growth and disorientation, so that young people can accept, in particular, the system of economic sovereignty and political power of monopolies, the ideas and values that they produce, with the focus of individuality, not to turn to their collective militant challenge. It is utopia, therefore, to say that in this environment there can be pure sport, that measures of a repressive character, the intensity of controls, the strictness of the institutional framework can correct the situation. It is utopia that there can be harmoniously coexist in the policy of profits with sport that serves modern folk needs. I think that the Greek people's live experience since 2004, as well as global experience, has been an undisputed witness to who is responsible. But it is clear that the system that opens the ferry to companies is the responsibility of itself, giving companies the right to convert sport, Olympic Games, pan-European matches, all sports activities into business. Unfortunately, doping today has evolved into a social scourge. It now goes beyond the limits of championship and extends to other social activities both to the student population and to athletes who are trained for good physical status and not to do championship. Approximately half starts use since the age of 16. The average age of start-up is fourteen years. Young people who are aware of the effects of these substances on their health are encouraged to use with as examples of famous athletes, standards for youth, who are revealed to be users. The system which looks forward to records and discrimination remains intact. Both the New Democracy as government and the other urban parties that have ruled, are consciously supporting it. All are sufficient in denounced texts, memoranda of understanding and superficial fragmentation, and reality is becoming ever more nightmareous. Everyone is professing against doping, but no government has so far linked the fight against doping to the strengthening of mass folk sport, to athletics. Only in the context of a concept that wants sport as a social good can it find its true value and athletics, when it develops along with the whole system of sport, a science that at the centre of its attention has the state of the organization of those who are being sported, but also the damages or injuries that may be caused by the exercise. Let us tell us where, how, by whom and for whom in our country, research and athletics are being exploited. It is also directly linked to commercialised and competitive sport. Is there any in schools, sports schools, sports amateur clubs, workplaces, people with disabilities, so that every athlete can attend and be medically supported? The provocative attitude and what is being expressed to the detriment of Greek sport, in our view, must mobilise and awaken consciences. Violence, doping, the acquisition of consciences are not natural phenomena. It is the result of the pursuit of the dominant circles, which have benefited from sport at the expense of the people and youth. So the fight against the pharmacopoeia and the system of values and practices that motivates it is identical to the struggle for another sport, with principles and values, as the right of the people and not as a spectacle - a business, to profit from traders. This is not just a political choice - it is that - but everything leads to a matter of life. The development of high-performance sport requires a long preparation, selection of talents and a scientific indication of them. However, this requires a system of development of sport for all, school-leaving, societal, amateur sport, i.e. it requires action in the direction of scientific research, documentation, logistical infrastructure and funding sufficient. The government in its practice of "controlling everything", i.e. unions, federations, athletes, has tried and continues to manipulate the sporting spirit, to complete the conversion crime of what remains of amateur sport in a fully commercialised manner. Mr. Undersecretary, would you throw us the glove, to tell you names, unions, and ask us 'Where did you see that I made an intervention to a person, to a federation and so on?' But does anyone think that he can become a traitor for someone who reacted to this tactic? Of course!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u10	You're a liar!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u11	Are you asking the Step of the House to refer to names and practices that, until yesterday, were calling voters and you called them "know what you voted on, do you still have time to change your vote?" Yes, that was until yesterday in the SINGA elections!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u12	You're a liar!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u13	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u14	You blackmailed athletes until the last minute. Names we're not gonna give you! They know the athletes, they know those who participated in the antiquities what just happened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u15	You're a liar, nothing else!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u16	Wait a minute, Mr. Synergy. Minister, you'll answer later. Please don't interrupt!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u17	I don't like it, then. I've told you sometimes that you're malicious. You're a mean man! That's exactly what you are!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u18	Come to the bill, Mr. Synergy. Come on, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u19	You took advantage of the electronic vote in the elections of the sports federations to control voters, blackmail and manipulate consciences, but even so, you didn't come out! You have been defeated against a state in the vast majority of federations. The electronic vote extends to the general assemblies, the decision to take a strike and the elections to the unions. That is why the question of electronic voting is so burning for you. In other words, a project which has been unfolding in recent years by the adoption of the law to block the right to strike - see the law of Ahtsoglou SYRIZA - which, in order for the decision to strike to be valid, should gather '50+1%', as if you were elected with '50+1%', as if you were elected with '50+1%', the Greek people. We must not forget New Democracy's law on demonstrations and the government's government's trade union law. So the argument that we are applying the pandemic electronic vote is for indigenous people. Say it clearly: You do not want the physical presence in the general assemblies, dialogue, direct confrontation of ideas and suggestions. This is what hatches the opacity, manipulation and control of thought and action. But you will tell me here, even in the metropolitan city of capitalism, in the United States of America, these practices that you are now implementing, as we have seen in the last elections in question by questioning the letter of vote. So fear the people's movement, because that alone can put the brake on these pursuits. So, everyone who recognises the serious social role of sport must make a move to claim all those who are entitled to sport, to see the young people of our country in the fair struggle in the tracks, in healthy competition with the young people of the world, in order to rejoice at the successes of free democratic athletes with integrated personalities and not robots regulated for great performance on the order of multinationals sold and bought by them, in order to make the right of the people and young people in sport, where every success and uploading of athletes in the background will have thousands of people who are active, thousands of healthy and with integrated personality young people rather than sponsors. To conclude, sport is a right for all of us and not for the few. There may be a bridge of friendship between the peoples of all the earth. The motto "Sport, like culture, is not only a luxury for the few, but a right for many" condensates within a phrase our perception of the JRC's proposal for physical education and sport, but also our confrontation with the current system, away from sponsors, advertising packages and athletes - superman. Thank you. Thank you for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u20	Thank you too, Mr. Synergy. The reason is now the special speaker of the Greek Solution Mrs Sophia - Iido Asmakopoulou. Here, Mrs. Asmakopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr President. Sport is a sign of culture for a society and generally reflects its standard of living. In a society of high competitiveness, where there is a constant desire to improve performance for many forms of sport, there is a suspicion that a reward for democracy, collectiveness and speech is always rewarded. In this use of banned substances, the very value of human beings is abstracted as far as its performance is concerned. This is because discrimination has become an end in itself and the deepest and most essential meanings of sport itself have been lost, or more rightly they have been sacrificed on the altar of purposes. The term "doping" - "pharmacothesis" in Greek - refers to the use or administration of medicinal substances and methods that aim to increase sport performance. This is how the athlete uses not only the legitimate means suitable for training, nutrition, psychological preparation to improve his performance. In contrast to the rules and moral principles of sport. Unfortunately, commercialisation prevails in the field of sport, since many athletes are taking advantage of their discrimination with advertising, social promotion, the demands for great economic gains. Besides, taking banned substances other than large profits on illegal athletes who manage to distinguish themselves from them creates a turnover of billions in their promotion and marketing circuits. Despite continuing scientific development, the effects of these banned substances on the body remain from tragic to fatal. There is no magical elixir that gives superhuman powers and does not cause harm. But there are substances that kill. After all, we must not forget the fact that the non-implementation of the rules of the euphoria on the field feeds on the phenomenon of violence, which has a negative impact on struggling athletes and a vicious circle exists between unsporting behaviour and violence. Acts, such as doping, call into question the athletic status and the possibility of participating in sporting activity. The arrangements to harmonize Greek legislation with the Revised Anti-Doping Code of the Anti-Doping World Organization contain a large number of unclear and vague points that need clarification, as we have pointed out in the debate here in the committee responsible. We see at the beginning of the bill that the various definitions of anti-doping rules are analysed, and that the conceptual terms used in the Code and in the draft law to clarify concepts and avoid multiple interpretative approaches are specified. There are two of these definitions which need further analysis and clarification. The first is the one mentioned in the case referred to in the first article, which speaks of an mandated third party. They are - you say - a person to whom the National Antidopong Agency assigns any stage of the doping or anti-dong training programmes. Who will these faces be? Why don't you determine what these are about? Also, with regard to the application of the anti-doping rules to natural persons, they are part of them and the athletes are part of them. What exactly do you mean by that and what does it mean? There are also cases of breaches of the anti-dumping rules which we do not have to observe. However, we cannot fail to express our reservations about proof of doping, as it is noted that the burden of proof that an anti-doping rule has been committed is borne by the National Anti-Doping Agency. And here we come to ask - reasonably we believe - whether you really believe that the National Anti-Doping Agency is capable of raising such a burden and there are the appropriate and expected results, because we have our reservations. In other words, we really need to see who will ensure that the provisions in question are complied with and implemented in our country. The National Antidopting Agency should work both at the level of controls and in particular at the level of training of athletes, in particular by continuing to inform them of changes in the international list of banned substances and its requirements and, in particular, the procedures for exceptional use of substances for therapeutic purposes. Without all the necessary elements, i.e. the proper functioning of the National Agency and the Laboratory, the required state care, etc., we are not going to have any effect, with the risk of being exposed as a country internationally to next races. These legislative provisions are meaningless if they cannot be implemented and have a real effect in practice. On the list of banned substances and methods published by the World Organisation, there are two issues that we would like to raise. The first has to do with the extremely long three-month period for the entry into force of the updated list of the World Antidopting Organization. We are in 2021, where new discoveries run fast, much more so in the field of medicines and various substances. The second is without prejudice to what we have said about the Hellenic National Antidopting Agency for the rapid implementation of the provisions we are discussing. The problem of Greek reality and the application of the provisions is also identified with regard to controls and investigations into the fight against doping. In Article 6, for the analysis of samples you indicate that ‘data relating to infringements of anti-doping regulations may be proven by any reliable means. This may include, for example, reliable laboratory or other controls carried out outside accredited or approved by the World Anti-Dopong Laboratory Organisation.’ Obviously, we disagree with that. It could not be done otherwise, given that there are serious doubts, since these laboratories do not have the quality guarantees required to examine and analyse samples concerning any infringements of the anti-doping rules. Similarly, we also have the same thoughts on the application of the results of the examination of the samples to be taken in order not to make the devices subject to a vote meaningless. It needs a lot of clarification, since Article 8 is totally vague regarding the right to a fair hearing and a decision-making statement. A description is given in general the composition of the hearing committee, which will be set up by the National Anti-Doping Organisation. It will be, you say, fair, impartial and functionally independent. How, however, will its members be chosen? On which criteria will it be formed? That's not what you're telling us. With regard to the self-righteous cancellation of individual results, you are generally talking about breaches of anti-doping in individual sports in the context of in-game control. What do you mean by the words 'on the fight'? What precise time frames are you referring to? All this is unclear and vague. With regard to sanctions for atomic sports athletes, and here there is a number of ambiguities. At the same time, you say, among other things, that if the athlete can prove that any intake or use took place outside a match and does not relate to sporting performance, then the exclusion period is three months. This is a very favourable provision. The three-month sentence is minimal, especially if we consider that the fight against doping and the use of banned substances in sport cannot be as effective as it should be with as little and no strict penalties. In other areas of this article we see similarly favourable provisions, which is not acceptable. As far as the consequences of groups are concerned, they are completely inadequate once again. You're talking about targeted checks without further information. Inadequate sanctions are also needed for other sporting organisations. Let us not forget that this is a bill whose objective is very important. That is precisely why we cannot see sanctions and penalties just for the eyes of the world and not serious penalties that will be exampled. Flexibility does not stand in any way when we talk about combating doping in sport. The provisions relating to the implementation and enforcement of decisions in the event of infringement of the anti-dumping rules are deemed to be appropriate. It is necessary for all national federations to report any information concerning an alleged infringement of an anti-dopting rule to the National Anti-Dopping Agency and to their international federation. What exactly do you mean by'responsible infringement'? What information are you referring to? Because, as you can see, this should not be done uncontrolled. On the question of education, we are once again committed to its implementation. It is the ‘alpha’ and the ‘omega’. But it must be done systematically, properly and efficiently. And this burden again for the design, implementation, evaluation and monitoring of the training information is assumed by the National Anti-Doping Agency. Is he sure he will succeed in implementing all this? Reference shall be made to another person involved in the doping control with whom members of athlete support staff must cooperate. What's that gonna be? Why isn't it specified? The athletic ideal is gradually led to degeneration, as people find it difficult to understand its role and value in a society of uncontrolled competition. For an athlete honesty and fair fight in the field of sport must be basic rules in his everyday sporting life. The athlete as a public person must be a model of social action. The use of doping reveals not only a tendency towards discrimination in every way, but especially in the specific user person, an external anti-sport behaviour which affects all moral and values in sport. As is well known, high-performance sports at national or international level is highly dependent on the financial means available, which may adversely affect smooth sports development. Of course, financial resources are necessary. But proper management is needed. Of course, the highest performance attracts not only athletes, but also spectators. That's normal. However, the expectation of continuous success is unrealistic, since there are limits to human biological abilities. The positive aim of the athlete to achieve the unexpected and important, and indeed the prerequisite for greater economic gain, leads to the use of banned substances. This is a huge risk in the path of the athlete to championship with consequences for his health, but also for the very value of championship. We in the Greek Solution believe that doping kills sport itself, catalyses all its principles. This is clearly a scourge. Legislative measures for prevention and repression are needed to combat it. There must be no room for 'whispers'. The problem of doping will not be solved unless there is a clear initiative for the full development of the phenomenon. The nightmare of doping in the conscience of athletes is and is an unsporting behavior. But it must be treated accordingly strictly and not simply as an act of anti-social behaviour. Finally, we tell you once again to ensure opportunities and to give serious incentives to those Greeks who left the country to be able to work during the economic crisis. They deserve it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u22	Thank you too, Mrs Asmakopoulou, for keeping time. Mrs Fotini Bakadima, a special buyer of Mera25, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me before anything else, because it is really a great pleasure to do so today, and from this step I should also like to congratulate my companion, friend and competitor Sophia Sakorafa for her victory yesterday that really managed to break the sheaths, so that we have the first woman president in the hundred and twenty-four years of the history of the EGF. A lot of congratulations, then, and a good service to Sofia! I'm sure her dignity, morality, battle and love for sport are the best guarantees and prescribe a truly successful term. Going through the subject of drugs before I come to the bill, you'll allow me to make a general reference. Certainly globalisation, but also the consequent commercialisation of sport in general, have created an environment of competition with noble starch entering second degree. For many athletes their records and their collapse was an end in itself. That's how we got a couple of them to resort to stuff. One means is the natural way, a good coach, proper diet, special preheat, vitamin reception, so that they can naturally increase their yields. However, gradually, the natural athlete is replaced and unfortunately we also have the appearance of the use of banned substances. Doping with the aim of increasing strength, endurance and improving performance, with the ultimate aim of conquering a medal slowly entered sports life. To this end, and in view of the conquest of a podium, some athletes did not hesitate to put themselves, their mental and physical health, even their own lives, and to start using anabolic, steroids and other banned substances, as well as various methods. Indeed, as the theoretical research has shown, often athletes are in a prison dilemma if they have to choose between doping and anti-doping. Although each athlete would prefer more than anyone not to do so, each one also prefers to do so whether or not others are doomed. Unfortunately, despite this increase in pharmacopoeia, legal science has been long enough to deal with the issue of doping and the situation is still legal. Why am I saying that? We have, for example, the Sports Law which is the most important part dealing with regulations of all kinds and all forms of sport and sport activity. Nevertheless, doping does not fall exclusively under Sport law, as problems and issues of administrative law arise, and not just. It can therefore be easily understood that there is no clear outline on where a doping case falls, especially when it arises, for example, during an international struggle. In Greece, there is a legislative framework for combating doping in sport that tries to keep up with the global legislative framework, with the main aim of limiting the use, which really blacks the image of sport. If we look at legislation over time, we will see that the main laws relating to doping are No.75/1975 ‘School of school sport and related legislation’, which is the first legislative initiative we have on the subject, No. 1646/1986 ‘Prevention and repression of violence in sports spaces and other provisions’, No.2371/1996 ‘Control of the European Anti-Doping Convention’, No. 3057/2002, which came to amend and supplement 2725/1999, No.3516/2006 ‘Conclusion of the International Convention against Pharmacopoeia in Sport’, No.3708/2008 ‘Fight against Violence’, No.4049/2012 ‘Taking of violence on the ground, the topical and other provisions’, and No.4373/2016 on the Anti-Dumping Code of World Sport’, No. 4049/2012 ‘Confront of violence on the ground, the topicalisation of pre-connected matches and No. But despite the series of laws I have mentioned and I am sure you all know there is no doubt that repressive legislation is not enough. What we need is to act in a number of preventive measures. The fight against this scourge requires a social, psychological, economic, political approach to the multiple factors promoting doping. Because he's not just an athlete who uses it. It is a circuit around it that starts with the introduction and disposal of the drugs of illegal substances and so on. As a phenomenon we all agree that it favours sport and destroys the lives of athletes who resort to it. We therefore believe that the debate on the fight against should have a clearer framework. On the one hand, the amendments and the development of the relevant legislative framework and the criticism of the legislative framework must always go hand in hand with the aims, content and orientation that the legislator has, which are our objectives, namely when we legislate to deal with doping and its harmful consequences. We must therefore think about how, on the one hand, we can protect sport and athletes by safeguarding their efforts, their health, the fundamental principles of olympism, medical morality, the well-being of sport and, on the other hand, we must discuss the preventive policy that can be established by means of relevant provisions for combating the phenomenon of sport by establishing controls, educational programmes, information campaigns for international and transnational cooperation, and, on the other, the prevention of crime which is really all about and directly linked to freedoms and quality of life. Of course we cannot leave the practical side of the legislature out of the debate. The application of the legislative framework by the Greek courts, criminal and administrative, the judicial treatment of offenders, whether they are athletes, coaches, sport agents or pharmacists selling banned substances or horse riders, when talking about sports of this kind, with reference to the legislation imposing criminal, disciplinary and administrative penalties. Another part, yet another practical aspect, is the analysis of social, cultural and ideological perceptions such as these, of course, are expressed through the evolution of the legislative framework and are projected through their changes and their modifications. So is society, and so is sport, which is why the anti-doping legislation should always be updated. At the same time, the efforts and legislative initiatives in Greece could not be so serious as not to concern the international community. In view of the interest of the Council of Europe for the development of a common policy to deal with it, decisions were taken which had international force, starting in 1967, with the European Charter of Sports against Doping more than a year later. Shortly thereafter, the ILO made an effective contribution to equality and justice internationally with the Anti-Doping Olympic Charter, which took shape in 1988, which mentions the role of the Committee on Sports in adopting anti-doping regulations, the coordination of the actions of the international and national federations, controls, disciplinary procedures and proposed the organisation of preventive and repressive training programmes. We have then adopted the Doping Fighting Regulation. The regulation we are inviting today to ratify is the fourth revised world code, which has been in force since 1 January of this year and is recognised by UNESCO's international marking and by more than one hundred eighty five countries. The revised regulation therefore comes in the form of today's draft law, it contains twenty-four articles, with arrangements not only for the revision of the Anti-Dopping Code that was in force to date, but also for the revised list of banned substances and methods, as well as a charter of rights for athletes. The general context remains very clearly the same. It is the determination of the substances, practices and methods that may be the result of doping, the reduction of the chances of obtaining and using prohibited substances, the definition of binding procedures for conducting or even the financing of regular checks on doping both during and outside competitions, the introduction of a system of penalties in case of breach of the specified standards and the promotion of international cooperation on combating the phenomenon. But, apart from reviewing, adapting and updating the legislative framework by ratifying the current regulation, I think that we should also work by updating the institutions that are coming to it, demarcating it and applying it in our country, such as the PSE, which has more or less remained the same since 1999, which is its year of establishment. I believe that we must and must not take the opposite view of creating and modernising all the necessary tools to combat doping in our country. For this reason, we would like to have more information today from the Minister regarding Greece's national anti-doping programme, but also the development strategy of sport, not only of Olympic sports, but of all sports and how it can be done at the same time as taking advantage of existing infrastructures and increasing them. As far as doping is concerned, it is a phenomenon that really needs to be tackled radically, strategically and holisticly, so that it stops destroying our athletes and harming sport. I mean athletes who resort to the use of these substances. The return to the roots of sport, the roots of sport and the strengthening and promotion of all sports could perhaps work against the network of doping. But not only doping is the cause of the destruction of sport. There is also a equally important chapter, which is why we are waiting with great interest for the use and use of the application of the Red Button application in our country so that it can be extended to as many sports as possible and so that it can gradually be eliminated and combated. I'll close with two more elements that work at the expense of sport. The first is the closure because of the pandemic. It is good, I have to say, that even with a huge delay, the 'green light' was given and started - some began, some began these days - some championships that had not started because of the pandemic, while, as I was informed, the beech volleyball training is also beginning. Minister, you are well aware of the anxiety of athletes over the months left out of sports spaces, their anxiety and concern not only about their abstention from sports activities, but especially their anxiety about the working part. It's anguish I'd shared with you and tried with a number of questions to take you along. I am pleased that you have finally taken initiatives to have the positive outcome of the resumption and I expect to see similar moves in relation to sports academies. I close with the huge issue of bullying and harassment of every kind that we have seen open up to sport with the brave decision of Sofia Bekatore to talk about the abuse he has suffered. Slowly, we have seen and heard daily and other mouths open new complaints to come to light. Our role, common place and mission should be to create the right supportive grid of victims, but also the punishing framework for the perpetrators, so that all these "accompanies" can be opened, indeed to punish malicious and malicious ones, as well as sport to clean up such behaviour that devastates athletes and athletes who suffer them, but also truly distort, smell and abuse the sporting spirit itself. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm going to need your tolerance, Mr. President. We need to function protectively towards championship and athletes, removing abuse, set-up and doping from racing spaces. I wish I could say, Minister, that your presence at the State Secretary for Sports would be the guarantee of making all these things happen. Unfortunately, exactly the opposite is true. You've worked all this time, all these months you've been handling the so important and sensitive portfolio of sport really as if it's your feud. We, as a MERA25, have also been in favour of you as a parliamentarian, condemning how to intervene in the elections of the federations, the 'photographic' amendments you have made over these months, the electronic voting and much more. You've forgotten, Minister, that sport unites. Either you've forgotten or you've chosen to forget it, because what you're doing is, instead of uniting, splitting and manipulating. You work on athletes and sport, you try to manipulate, but - let's be honest - the results show that you don't always come out and thankfully, you don't always come out. In fact, it is to be wondered: How much longer will you be operating at the expense of sport and athletes? How much longer do you think sport is your feud? We, as MERA25 - and it is our commitment - will always be toward you, always to highlight and confuse your practices and always be here to remind the unified power of sport against your division and your attempt to manipulate and work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mrs. Bakadima. We're entering the speaker circle now...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u25	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u26	Whatever you want. You can talk now. Go ahead. The Deputy Minister of Sports, Mr. Leuteris Augustakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u27	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my position, you will allow me to give two quick answers to the dear rapporteurs of the opposition parties. First of all, Mrs. Vetta, you said something about the Recovery Fund. Do you not ask us any parliamentary questions to answer and actually have an integrated answer for all that you have seen very easily, but without asking? Ask us and then you draw your conclusions, namely, regarding the participation of sport in the Recovery Fund and the brave funding that our country has received at the initiative of the Prime Minister himself. And there, unfortunately, you fell out! With regard to intervention in the elections of the federations, I would like to say that you and Mr Syntrakis once again have a policy on the sites. You say you say you say that? "You know, a post he wrote that he said...?" So I challenge you once again - here we are and do not hide behind your finger, you are big children - to testify whatever you have for intervention by the government and me personally in the elections of federations. In these election processes, renewal won, sport won, but especially transparency gained. That is why I should like to congratulate all the administrations without exception, all the persons who are now volunteering for the wheel of many federations in our country. I am sure that with the spirit that now characterises all the new administrations and all, the sporting structure will offer extremely important work, of course, and also the Greek Olympic Committee, the Greek Paralympic Committee, as well as the Greek Government. You said some other things, and you filed some papers. I will then say it because this whole story of your documents and your findings is interesting. We're talking about the new Antidonping Code. That is to say, we are in line with the national institutional framework with the updated version of the World Anti-Doping Programme. Since the first time we took up our duties, we have set doping as a priority and already in July 2019 in the announcement of the government's schedule statements in the field of sport, we mentioned in our anti-doping plan. I would remind you of what we said at the time, I told the committee and I repeat it now. We were committed to institutional strengthening and supporting the mission and work of the National Doping Combat Council (ESCF). We had set as our political priority to support "clean sport" which is a vehicle of the Olympic ideal and of the long values that support him against the modern scourge of enhanced super-performance. We were also committed to setting up a scientific committee to support the work of the ESKAN ahead of the Olympic Games, which were not made and were transferred for this year. This is what we had undertaken to do in general in July 2019 during our term of office. We are proud, ladies and gentlemen, of what we have done all this time in the anti-doping sector. We've said it, we've done it. Of course modernising the National Antidopting System is a constant effort that we are carrying out in the midst of the pandemic's difficulties with awareness of the demands and with a clear target. This effort is fruitful and its recognition is universal from the international sporting precinct. I am pleased to say to you - and I imagine that you will also be pleased - and I am taking you from this Step to the interest of the International Olympic Committee on developments in the treatment of doping in our country. During the previous meeting of the President of the IOC, Mr. Thomas Bach, with our Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis and with the presence of the President of the Hellenic Olympic Committee Mr. Kapralos, Mr. Bach welcomed the Prime Minister for the commendable progress our country has made in the fight against doping over the past few months. It is clear to everyone that the progress that has been made in restoring relations with WADA, our work in dealing with chronic problems, in the field of drug resurgence, and our sport reform, are now perceived, but also recognised for the important work we do, by leading international sports bodies. At the top of this effort is the operation of the National Doping, the EECE, now. After eight whole years of delay, the n.D.87/2020 of Law 4049/2012 was finally issued. Many had announced their intention to set up the organization, but we realised its importance and moved forward very rapidly in the establishment of the new organisation for which I will come back. But let us see what we have received and worth it, because we will tell truths. In 2019 we inherited a problematic situation in both the anti-doping activities at national level. The situation we have received is known through the relevant inspections of the World Anti-Doping WADA. We have received two deep-seated problematic bodies: the Doping Control Laboratory on the side of the disaster, the ESRBAN working in a long time not having understood international developments many years ago. And the messages from the World Anti-Doping Organization have been systematic and clear for many years. Our country's response was limited, fragmented, but mainly inadequate. In 2018, the World Organisation of Antidopting gave us the alarm. By letters at regular intervals within 2018 he noted the gaps and asked for immediate action. The same was demanding in the first quarter of 2019, but our country's improperness and procrastination continued. Just a few weeks after taking up my duties, we are visiting the WADA inspectors in our country, scheduled by the previous leadership of the Ministry of Sports. Mr Vassiliade, in response to parliamentary scrutiny on May 15, 2019- falsely yet again - he wrote: "The control by WADA has been successfully completed, where the ESKAN has found full compliance with the rules against doping". The WADA inspection report then follows on 5 and 6 September. This is a report of fifty-eight pages which sees a series of non-compliances and calls for a series of necessary measures and actions to be taken. I'll give it to you. It'll be very useful if you want to do dentology. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sports, Mr Eleftherios Augakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] You mentioned, Mrs. Vetta, and the non-conformity indicators, and you submitted them to the Minutes. Do you know exactly what you testified about? These indicators, what do they include? Are they related to supplementing and simply submitting questionnaires rather than to the contents of the replies? The alleged compliance you are referring to led to the arrival of the WADA inspectors and the report that I mentioned and tabled and which is available to you. In fact, the inspection was designed - and all this is proved in writing - in June 2019. But, with the paradoxical tactics of the then Minister, you asked for the inspection to be carried out in September, which was done to avoid the "hot potato" that you created in all the years that you were at the wheel of the Ministry and the Government. You have invited Mr. Mavrotas. Instead of asking Mr Mavrotas, do you not ask Mr Constantinople and Mr Vassiliou to answer the questions he asked them then in the context of parliamentary control and with which he put them before their responsibilities for the unacceptable state of the Anti-Doping National System on your days? I think everyone can draw their conclusions, as long as they take a look at Mr Mavrota's question. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sports, Mr Eleftherios Augakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] The WADA review of the ESRB on 4 and 5 September 2019 highlighted a number of non-compliances, abrupt years, and the risk of the country being excluded from international sporting events. Immediately thereafter, on October 1, 2019, the suspension of the accreditation of the OAS laboratory was followed by the completion of a time-invoked death with the well-known apathy of Mr. Vassiliadis and the entire SYRIZA government. The previous government, however, was prepared to say that it had legislated, as of January of the same year, to transfer the CSR Lab to the CSR "Democritus" as a solution to the financial and management problems the laboratory faced. However, it did not proceed with the necessary actions, such as the adoption of a ministerial decision, the transfer of the workshop, financing issues, staff issues. These are actions that, when we started implementing, we discovered that once again had become an incredible sloppy and, of course, an incredibly irresponsible attitude of the Greek prior leadership of the Ministry. However, we have not remained at the crossroads since the first moment we have received knowledge of the serious problems in the field of anti-doping. We have committed ourselves as a government to giving immediate priority to resolving the problems in the anti-dopting sector. I would like to say the following. We planned, and after consultation with WADA, we set up an independent organisation, the National Anti-Doping Agency, which will be able to operate according to the modern-day checks in the field of anti-doping. We heard SYRIZA's colleagues say that they had already prepared the ground for the EEC, that they would 'complete' and, more generally, that everything was well burned. How is it possible for a government priority to last for three years and finally do nothing if we count on Mr. Kontonis's announcements, of course? Let them be SYRIZA's colleagues. You're professionals in the announcements, but history says you're only staying in the announcements. And we announced it, but the difference is that we did it, and that's the difference between the two sides. The Presidential Decree establishing the EECE was published in the Official Journal of the Government on 21-10-2020. Our announcements did not only stand up to the creation of the organization but simply to take the obligation out and show superficially a good person in terms of WADA. We have said that the new body will be financially autonomous, will be able to stand firm on its feet and be able to draw up the modern sporting strategy of combating doping and raising awareness of this issue. Indeed, we said that this would be done in good time before the end of the ETUC's transitional period. Indeed, on 8 March I signed the budget for the year 2021, amounting to EUR 1.513,600. I put it in the Minutes, because it might be useful to you. We said it, we did it. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sports, Mr Eleftherios Augakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] We also said that we would contribute to ensuring modern operating conditions across the range and from the outset we said that we would change the environment of the operating conditions, that the operating framework of the ESRB, which was somewhere lost between the services of the General Secretariat of Sport, will not continue. We have seen from the outset the need for the EEC to exist in new places where administration and staff will be undivided in their work. We identified the necessity, we stressed its importance, and yes, we committed ourselves to it. At a rapid pace we arranged for the transfer of the services of the EEC to modern and operational facilities in the OASA, more than two hundred square metres. We have said so, ladies and gentlemen. The offices are ready in the center, in the heart of the Olympic Stadium. I am committed that the new organization, the EEC, will be ready in April. I am pleased to tell you that the EEC is already ready, that the institutional framework is ready, that it has an approved budget, that it has modern operating spaces and all logistics, and that the procedures for its staff are in progress. We have said that and we are doing so, ladies and gentlemen. Personal, since you have asked: It has already been established by the General Secretariat of Sports and Sports Working Group from GAAP and OAS staff, working on a day-to-day transition to operational preparedness. An invitation has already been made to move staff from the General Secretariat of Sports to the EEC, while a request for the recruitment of 15 members of staff is under way. The staff will be of various specialties, Administrative and Economics, IP, Legal, Informatics, Translators, Administrative and Accounting and others. The procedure of the PHS Committee 33/2006 is followed. As you know, we cannot have included the EEC in recruitment planning for 2021, because this programming takes place last year. The EEC's President-in-Office's Recommendation was published in October 2020, which is why we are following the procedure for the exceptional approval of regular recruitment. We've said it, we're doing it. The Rules of Procedure, since you asked me in committee. Today you have not dared to ask me many questions. The Antidoping Operations Rules are the code we are discussing today. The EEC's Rules of Procedure are ready and will be operational in the next few days after the Agency has been established. You have asked me for this, too: is the organogram of the EEC, which actually illustrates the structure, as described in the Presidential Decree of its establishment? At the same time, we have taken note of the WADA stance and we have taken corrective action. A characteristic example is the abolition of the unjustified unreasonable state of payment of checks by the sports federations. Be careful now, this is a Greek originality by the hand of Vasiliadis. The costs of the audits were borne by the federations, thus making the audits dependent on the budget, the allocation, and the ordering to the essence of the federation in question, i.e. the audited person also became a verifier. We put an end to this paradox, which WADA had correctly identified. With recent legislation, Law 4726, the cost of anti-doping checks is borne by the EEC, so that it is able to plan and implement, independently and in full, the doping control. That is how we make a clear distinction between auditor, PSE, and controlled, which is the federations of the sports federations. At the same time, we are working uninterruptedly to restore as many non-conformities as possible, so that the damocles of exclusion cease to be affected by Greek sport. Now we're going to the lab, since you asked me about it. We have implemented his administrative application to one of the top research institutes in the country, "Democritus", in order to facilitate his needs to be met primarily by staff as well as equipment. Its transfer took place in July 2019. This was done in order to have financial independence and also, above all, the possibility of recruitment, as these were two of the main points that WADA had noted. We are in the process of regaining accreditation, although the laboratory is no longer under the supervision of our Ministry, we continue to support it, but in order to recover its accreditation and we guarantee adequate support for the national agency to ensure a sufficient number of samples. For the proper functioning of the workshop, in particular, in addition to 2 million, committed to the workshop equipment and absorbed at 1,2 and the remaining 800 already, the General Secretariat of Sports has signed a memorandum of cooperation with the "Democritus" and assists the workshop with a total of 480,000 euros until it recovers its accreditation. This was already the first amount allocated for 2020, and the disbursement of 50%, i.e. 240,000 for 2021. However, we have committed EUR 400,000 a year, then, once it has been established, to our regular budget. It should be pointed out that it is no longer - I say the second time - the workshop within the competence of the Ministry of Culture and Sport, the Doping Control Laboratory of Athens is now about 'Democritus' and it is the responsibility of the Ministry of Development. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I'm gonna need a few more minutes, Mr. President. But four of the six have been recruited, in addition to the ten already working there. In other words, fourteen specialists are currently employed in this workshop. For the remaining two the notices have been issued, the candidates' applications have been submitted and they are currently being evaluated. It is the government's will, not only in the fight against doping, that is an unnegotiable attitude for us, but also in ensuring the proper functioning and independence of the competent authorities. It is our desire and priority that the restoration of the Greek anti-doping should be completed as soon as possible. However, we must recognise and above all recognise the delays that arise not only from institutional obstacles and bureaucracy, but from the extremely difficult conditions we face because of the pandemic. It should be pointed out that the tunnel in which we found the Greek anti-doping is so long that even though the light now appears, we have not reached the edge. We are, however, working in a constant, methodical and, above all, extremely responsible. The technical and statistical data are overwhelmingly in favour of the present situation. The EESC is now implementing a modern annual audit plan based on a risk assessment, focusing on the control programme outside the race. Control is intelligent, unpredictable and mainly unpredictable, and not on order, as was done until beforehand. Multiannual vacancies of sports and sports education are dealt with. The ESKAN, who has come to a service provider's regime, mechanically serving orders of sports bodies, returning to times before WADA and Code, finally takes over the role of the National Anti-Fraud Authority of Doping and proposing its programme. In other words, it is confusing with hooks that are not relevant to modern sport. For example, within the first quarter of 2021, a hundred and twelve real checks have been carried out outside the race, while in the entire three-year period 2016-2018 they have barely exceeded the two-year control. There are also hemorrhages, which on SYRIZA days were not even carried out, probably they realized that they were so necessary. The numbers speak for themselves. Comparison is overwhelming. And continue the comparisons. Personnel: What has changed in the matter of staff? In your day the staff of the ESKAN remained in five to six, unskilled employees of the General Secretariat of Sports. You haven't changed anything. You haven't been working with any new staff. You're swinging our fingers today. I do not need to repeat that, with initiatives that we have taken immediately, the question of staff is dealt with and even effective. Budgets: of course. From 50,000 when it was the budget you received, you took him to 200,000. That is right, but the question is what the PSE has done with the quadrupling of the budget. Something changed? Tell us about it. Because the WADA reports did not find any improvement. The opposite is true. At the same time, the cost of checks, as I said before, did not do the PSE, but you carried it to the federations, which were, on request, asked to carry out checks. And because I challenged you to the committee, you didn't raise the glove. I am telling you today, in plenary, if you would like me to have all the correspondence Mr Vassiliou has had with WADA, and there is proof of your consistency and your real interest as a government on the anti-doping issue. Do not cause it, I have it at your disposal, and if you want me to present it to you, so that everyone knows the content of the policy you have had and implemented as a government in the last four years.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u28	Minister, please be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u29	As far as our country is concerned, Greece now acquires a modern, but also operating anti-doping organisation in the position of obsolete and inadequate ECANs, such as almost all the states of the sports world or at least the advanced ones, looking to regain its position in the pioneering of the international anti-doping movement. At the last teleconference I had with the President of WADA on 22 October 2020, President Witold Banka, as our rapporteur said, has given us credit for the progress that has been made so far, saying attributes: ‘I am pleased to work with you. You have done a great job to date and even more importantly, you have achieved so many things in a short time, if any difficulties are taken into account because of the pandemic. Congratulations! I dare say that I get the most positive news from Greece, at the same time that no other country has had so good, so pleasant news! And I want us to continue together, hand - to complete the necessary changes. At the same time, however, we are preparing a series of information actions on the values of healthy sport, on the prevention and treatment of doping. A news campaign will be ready in a very short time, naturally provided by the private sector, since it is directly related to the subject of the strong message that has to go away from the edge. And just a word about the code. Let's go see the Antidoping Code today. The World Code of Antidoping is the fundamental document on which the global anti-doping programme is based. Its aim is to protect the fundamental right of athletes and athletes to participate in sport without the use of pharmacopoeia, by ensuring harmonised, coordinated and effective programmes against doping at national and international level in terms of identifying, preventing and preventing doping. The code has been drawn up taking into account the principles of proportionality and of natural human rights. The first code, I recall, was adopted in Copenhagen in January 2003 during the Second World Conference on Doping in Sport. At that time WADA pledged to ensure that the code would be a live document that would be subject to periodic examination. And we arrive today in the revised code, which came into force on 1 January 2021. The proposed draft makes it possible to harmonise Greek legislation with its new amendments. Ladies and gentlemen, it goes without saying that doping poisons not only the career of athletes, but also the prestige of a country on the international sporting precinct. Now more than ever we have a duty to put aside the oligopoly and the mistakes of the past, to quickly show reflexes and to protect healthy sport, to put in place all modern tools, to implement tomorrow's international practices and all together, united in making our country a model of play again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, too, Minister. We will enter the list of speakers. Parliamentary representatives are requested when they consider themselves ready to speak, to inform, so that the debate can be organised. The floor will be given to them in the order to declare their desire to speak and to intervene at least two Members from the speakers. The next parliamentary representative will then be followed. The first speaker is George Kotsos from New Democracy. There's been a change with Mr. Bukowo. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u31	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are talking about one of the greatest scourges of sport, doping, which, together with violence on the ground, but also stunned toys, are the three fundamental and structural problems of the sporting building. Of course, I hear many of my fellow Members returning the doping phenomenon only to commercialisation. Definitely trade plays a decisive role in this process. But doping has deeper social and economic causes, but at the same time it depends on the patterns of each age. And of course it's not a modern phenomenon. It knows neither borders nor states nor ideologies, nor ages. As long as I can tell you that the phenomena of strengthening the performance of the athletes were also presented in ancient Greece. Of course, they had nothing to do with drugs, chemical preparations, but with food aids or enhancers, in order to increase the performance of athletes. The first listed case of a prohibited substance is recorded in 1865. Then, in a swimming match on the Amsterdam channel, an unknown substance was found - because there were really no procedures for detecting these substances - to one of the athletes. The first death even occurred in 1896 to an English biker, Linton, who took ephedrine in the Paris - Bordeaux race. The period of the huge increase in doping is the 1960s, a champion of East Germany. That's why I'm telling you it's not about ideologies, it's not just about economic issues. It has to do with social causes, but also with the attitude of too many people to distinguish themselves, to write their name on the global precinct and to create a sense of sport, but not just around sport. Even mass sport notices the phenomenon of doping. I imagine you know that too many of those who work free in gyms use banned substances in order to get a good body or create a new standard at the time we are. The will of our own government in the field of sport remains given and unnegotiable not only in the fight against the doping phenomenon, but also in ensuring the proper functioning and independence of the competent authorities involved in sport. Since the first time we have taken over the governance of our country, we have constantly made decisions to correct mistakes and pathogens of the past. This has also happened in this particular subject where we have had too many omissions, too many abstracts, and so the participation of our athletes in international struggles is at stake. We also had very many comments from WADA, which acknowledged that major steps have been taken lately by the Greek Government. As I said, the phenomenon of doping is literally a scourge not only for sport, but also for sports participants. It touches the entire sporting building and involved actors, athletes, trainers, coaches, doctors. Of course, the recipients of all this phenomenon are themselves athletes or trainees, with huge consequences for their bodies and their health. Here, of course, we must note - as I said at first - that we have nothing to do with ages - that the phenomenon of doping is happening in childhood, especially in certain sports such as organs and swimming where championship appears too early. We have thirteen and fourteen-year-old champions. We therefore have the use of anabolic substances or doping at these ages. You understand what this means and how serious this is. This is a phenomenon with international dimensions, which is constantly growing and, above all, with a great deal of progress in the use of the substances used for this purpose. That is why it is difficult to detect these substances too many times, because there is a huge industry that promotes, promotes and exploits these possibilities. I think that there is a need for constant vigilance, but above all transnational cooperation, in order to deal with this phenomenon. All the stakeholders should have cooperation between themselves to defend euphoria, but above all the athletes, because, as I said before, the result of the use of doping can lead to death, and that is the worst. So we are coming today with this draft law, and we are reforming the existing legislation on doping, in accordance with the WADA revised Anti-Doping Code. In particular, the concepts of the relevant terms are given, the scope of the anti-doping rules is redefined, the anti-doping rules will henceforth be applied by the National Anti-Doping Agency to national sports federations, natural persons, whether they are athletes or support staff, but also to national athletes. Furthermore, the violations of the doping rules, the process of proof of doping, as well as the procedure for checks and investigations are redefined in order to combat it. The list of prohibited substances is updated and the way of analysing the samples of athletes and managing the results. Finally, the list of banned substances, as it is published and reviewed every time by WADA, because, as I said before, it is an international phenomenon, international cooperation is needed and at the same time all the actors involved are synergy. The penalties and penalties imposed in cases of doping are redefined, if you have money, to EUR 10 000 for each athlete or EUR 100,000 for cases where more people are involved. Our aim, therefore, is to create a firm and effective institutional framework that is mainly to prevent and also to tackle the phenomenon of doping in order to ensure the well-being of athletes, but above all the health of athletes. Ladies and gentlemen, we must restore the prestige of our country and the sporting spirit, but at the same time we must protect athletes and those who participate in sport, implement all the practices that promote sport and its values and say "yes" in pure sport, because we want Greece to be in the lead of the sporting spirit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Constantine Marcou has the floor now from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u33	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, although your intervention in the process of this bill was in the same climate, you should know that we would agree 60% to 70% of what we have said and a bill that we will vote for with a rose. But you could not refuse your DNA and at least invoked inaccuracies and slander. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a clarification to the Member who spoke a moment ago to restore the status of gymnastics. Mr. Colleague, without subjectivity our scientific team has published in the best magazines in the world medical evidence that in organs and rhythmic gymnastics until adulthood they do not use anabolics. I assure you about that. We are now coming to the basics we are discussing. The new WADA Code is indeed an update, because times change and no one needs to adapt to them. Of course, we must all know that science and legality are always 'run' in this case behind illegality. In other words, laboratory and scientific activity, illegal, pharmacology is always a step forward, and WADA, like the other bodies of the scientific community, is "run" from the back to cover and prevent. This is an international reality. We must also state here that to some extent the international community of sport and the legality fall short of the initiatives it needs to take. The interests are enormous, the forces that are moving are huge and initiatives that would go ahead too, such as haemorrhage, are not being undertaken. But that is the situation. Let's come to us now. You made a nice translation, Minister. Congratulations, we'll vote and go further. So let us see some things, because, you know, today is extremely advantageous to you. Exquisitely advantageous! It is April and you are entitled to say what you have said to the committees and to join the day. Can I tell you that in 2011 and 2013 in the New Democracy Government was not even submitted to international organisations? The integration was 0% and we reached 95%. Let me tell you that the transfer of the anti-doping workshop to "Democritus" did it by our government and remind you what you voted on then? You have voted negatively on what you are boasting about now. May I remind you that the equipment for this laboratory, with the expensive machinery, has been integrated into the NSRF from us, so that it can be realistic? And, by the way, I would like to ask you this: what has happened to this international competition called 2020 on our government - is an opportunity to give us this clarification - and that has been joined by us in the PSF? I give you the relevant document here. We still don't know what's happened. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Markou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Let's go further. We're on our way to the staff. You know, you're doing a wicked thing. Avoid using 'will' because then everything will be included in the promises and you are using intensely lasting. 'We are working', 'we are running', 'we are working'. So you come and tell us that just in March, a few days before the deposit of this bill and the debate, you made the budget - until then it was all in the air! - because you obviously didn't have a face to come and stand at the National Representation without a budget. You did something else very interesting. The call for expressions of interest for the movement of officials from various bodies of the General Secretariat in the EEC is announced. When did you do it? Yesterday, Minister, you did. These are the advantages of the perpetual maturity. I am tabling this document for the Minutes too. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Markou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You know, problems with WADA aren't recent. They started in 2008 with Minister Ioannides, when they decided to incorporate the samplers into the framework of that time. And then it was something opposite the WADA regulations and the ISO was removed to the lab. The samplers were not paid and made in the summer of 2010, on your government, the lifting of the availability of the samplers and strike. Global originality, sample strike! The current Secretary-General of Sports, Mr Mavrotas, who is absent from your side and now in the committee, rather modest, was a member of the Scientific Council at the time, in the Orphanus Ministry and in the Ioannides Minister. So let him let you know why WADA put Greece in the eye. In fact, as far as we know, he had also undertaken to set up a project. His luck is missing. We are coming to the present reality. Right now, our lab isn't working. Our samples are sent to Qatar. Why in Qatar, Minister? Why? Aren't there next to us European cities with certified laboratories to go? Is there some kind of financial offer better? Let's understand it. Qatar why? I'd like you to let us know. Finally, we have a pandemic. We have activities that are too limited. To recertify our laboratory, it takes three thousand measurements and samples. Have you taken the opportunity of the pandemic to ask international organisations to reduce this requirement of three thousand determinations due to these special conditions, so that our laboratory can be certified earlier and better? I would therefore like you to give us these answers which, by ending, concisely remind me again, because you have a selective memory, someone answering and someone not answering. Where is the equipment procedure? Do not use forcefully and tell us 'we are making the rules of the EEC'. So where is this procedure? Why are we sending the samples to Qatar? And finally, do you think that budget you tabled a few days ago is sufficient? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u34	Thank you very much. Mrs. Charia Kefidou from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr President. Good month. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to congratulate Sofia Sakova on her election and wish her a good term in her work. It's an object he knows very well, and he loves it very much. We are talking today about harmonising the Greek legislation with the revised one-to-one-2021 Antidopting Code of the World Organisation of Antidopting, WADA. The rapid and continuous development of technology at a pace that law and social sciences cannot monitor make modern societies helpless, ubiquitous end of technological achievements. Assuming rules and prohibitions to regulate and limit the continued invasion of our lives, more and more sophisticated achievements. In a world where sport is a useful tool of power and power by states and governments, trade is as a result and of course fuelled by the States themselves. This is how a vicious service exchange cycle is made. Passion for the glory of the athlete is served by the promise of a new achievement of science. In turn, athletes will finance the huge economic interests that ensure their sustainability and blossom from the very central authority of any state that either acquires or thinks that it is gaining more influence and ultimately in such a global environment, it seems in vain and unreasonable to exhaust ourselves in a public dialogue that analyses and invokes the values of the fight. At the end of each debate, the states will continue to pursue glory as a force of influence and power. Sport industries will seize every opportunity of easy enrichment. People will be struggling for a place on the platform, a ticket to a better life, even with banned substances and a risk of their health, usually highly degraded by coaches, sports clubs and clubs, even with gene therapy or gene transfer or even with extraskeletal products. There and perhaps in front of there, in the creation of new superstitions, we are today. The current criteria that set the ban on doping substances and methods, in accordance with the WADA Code, are three, improving sports performance, creating health problems for the athlete and conflicting with the spirit of the fight. Where at least two of the three are met, this technology is identified as prohibited. While doping using substances is systematically controlled and regularly reviewed by the relevant international and national organisations, but remaining many steps behind cutting technology, other methods are beginning to become new and difficult issues for the anti-doping authorities, for example the application of genetic technologies to athletes. Improving sport performance by using these genetic technologies is a relatively recent issue for the competent anti-doping authorities to consider. They deal with all these genetic interventions as a form of doping, with many difficulties in interpreting them and indistinguishingly with the limits of whether they are a therapeutic method for medical reasons and not ultimately a misuse to improve sporting performance. Ladies and gentlemen, if we want to be honest, we have to admit that the international approach of the issue with insistence on control mechanisms and repressive mechanisms is increasingly advanced and informed, because it limits the uncontrolled diffusion of doping everywhere, from the neighborhood's sports club or the gym, but it will always be - at best - quite a step behind the technology it seems to be galloping. Every day they invent new ways, less or more dangerous to the health of athletes, indifferent to any moral dimension of the fight and to the flagrant violation of the principle of equality and equal conditions of participation in races. So today's debate on the harmonisation of our legislation with the revised WADA Antidoping Code, but insignificant, like other states, of course, from the point of view of dealing effectively with a global phenomenon that continues to infect sport, continues to infect athletes and ultimately modern societies. Perhaps the only effective part of this phenomenon would be to shift the centre of gravity from repression to ban, where we will always be back, to coordinated international action to change culture, to change standards. I believe that education plays the most important role here. I'm not, you know, so romantic that I think the procedures will move fast. The results will be late. They're not coming the next day. That, however, is no reason not to enter the process of creating the conditions for a healthier tomorrow in sport that will finally return to its principles. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] A key role for the implementation of such a great plan of change and control of the doping industry is the scientific community and the directly involved athletes, coaches, sports clubs, as they are on the altar of a potential success, perhaps huge, often of many millions, urging athletes to put their lives at risk and - indulge - to dismantle the basic condition of sport. Greece, taking advantage of the special weight of its culture and its historical past as the womb of global sport and sporting spirit, could be a pioneer, encouraging the world community to a model-change process in the sport industry. Until then, the importance of strict control of banned substances and products by the competent authorities, while insisting on disseminating full and accurate information for athletes about potential harmful side effects of doping, is important to limit the phenomenon. In this limited framework of effectiveness, the new WADA Code provides a more advanced approach to the doping phenomenon, focusing on protecting the rights of athletes, encouraging the complaint of doping incidents and setting as a straightforward violations that bring sanctions both intimidation and threats aimed at recovering complaints about doping. However, with sadness we must admit that the provisions of the code are completely incapable of leading to the elimination of the phenomenon. Ladies and gentlemen - and I am ending this - the radical solution, however strict a framework we are building, is not in repression and prohibition. The solution lies on the long path of education that starts through the school, from the small club, the sports club, to reach the top of the pyramid and force it to change. By the time this is done, we will come again, we will vote again for a more enriched code, which will be followed by fatalism and will remain inferior to the circumstances and needs of society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u36	The next speaker is Mr Boubas Konstantinos from the Greek Solution. Mr. Bukokouros from New Democracy will be followed by Ms. Christidou from SYRIZA and then by the Parliamentary Representative of Greek Solution, Mr. Heitas. Here, Mr. Booba, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u37	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, first of all the Third National Category has finally begun, so I do not remind you of that. Slowly late than never! Football League has started too. Congratulations to the new president, who is the first woman to be elected to this great federation of the SGA, which was founded in 1897; SGA is also a historic federation - Mrs Sophia Sakorafa and we hope for the best in terms of sport. Sport may be a male genus, but effort and speech are a female genus. So the female mind needs athletics. Also, I should like to congratulate my co-president, Tasula Kelesidou, from Strymonochori, Serres, for his struggle. Now, if we were to know how serious the issue of doping is, we should be talking hours endless, because it is the question of what standards we cultivate for the next, future generations. I'll start with something wrong. And when I say the wrong thing about sport, I really mean it. Have you seen the post of "GUARDIAN" that speaks of six and a half thousand workers dead in Qatar since 2010, in order to make football courts for the great superview of the World Cup Football? Six and a half thousand workers stacked in containers, under adverse conditions, have been lost in this state, which we have ratified, the most famous Qatar. Rejoice in such sport on the altar of money and merchandise! Doping is a long story, ladies and gentlemen, and if we do not do education and education, it does not fight for those national organisations and to do what we have specialist workshops and do, even though there is cooperation with the large Democritus Research Centre, Minister, as much as we finance it - you say, for example, for EUR 1,66 000 a year - or we have specialised staff, because doping is always more ahead. It's Lernaia Hydra. As my colleague has said about the story of doping, doping is coming from a long time ago. The word 'dop' is Dutch. Some South African tribes came the word "dop" in Elderly, by the colonists of the Netherlands. The Dutch carried it. But it comes from Ancient Greece and Philostrato, which speaks of doping. Even within the the theory of the word "syphilis", figs were considered superfood, which is the word of the time. It was over-food for the athletes of ancient Athens. We are, however, coming to see what will be the next day, because we were really back. We could compare only with Brazil, Guatemala and some other Latin American countries, which I do not want to downgrade, but we had no comparison with the rest of Europe. How is the problem that comes from the end of the eighteenth century to death? Even Greece, of course, has the good face. Many athletes and athletes were found doppelgangered. In addition, we had deaths in the recent Olympians, as in London in 1969 and went by saying. You remember the French biker, too. I'll do a pun with two surnames: Jay Cooper. Do you remember what he did? In order not to find the famous basketball player - basketballist - say what you want - who was naturalized and by Bosnian and passed by groups of Greeks, he deliberately gave his partner's urine so he wouldn't be caught for the banned substances. But his partner was pregnant and Jay Cooper went out that she was pregnant. Do you realize what's going on, what's going on marketing? But do you know what a coach says, as the Athleticist, the City of Bullokos, says? Don't hide behind our finger. "Daddy athlete is the one caught," he says. Do you realize what happens if there are no strict penalties and penalties for coaches, with large sponsorships, contracts? One athlete, when he is clean, must be made and rewarded more when he has conquered, even a great record, to be a model. While Jay Cooper did these, I'm going to another Cooper, Carls Cooper. This problem that will concern us in the next few years is gene doping. If you really read, ladies and gentlemen, how to make the gene doping with the control of genetically modified cells that can't be detected, you would really be surprised. We're talking about gene medicine, biochemistry, it's about treating diseases. About twenty - five thousand energy genes have been found to cure five thousand diseases. Ninety are related to sporting performance and already in laboratories some medical methods are illegally used to infiltrate foreign cells in the body, insult chromosomes and DNA, to produce new substances and perform human. I mean, man goes against his creator, his nature, and he becomes a superhuman, super man. Greek word is super, from hyper to Latin and pro. I mean, we have to be prepared because doping will find variations. We're talking about gene doping. Greece must be in a global partnership to tackle, unfortunately, mutant athletes and, indeed, in some medical studies infiltration will be carried out either internally or internally by a method of inert viruses, since we are on the issue of viruses, either retroviruses or some other viruses. The Aristotle University is the only academic university that is part of a European project on the subject of doping. I read studies: Asterios Deligiannis, Professor - Athiliatros, Nikolaos Koutlianos and Vassilis Barkulis, who is the coordinator of Aristotle, participate in a European research programme that also takes place in Cyprus, Finland and Italy - Societa Sportiva Lazio, the Lazio cycling team - to see what they will do in the coming years. But, mostly, doping is not in professional sport, it's in recreational sport. See what's going on in some gyms with some food? They say they have an IFO approval. And what happened? We've spent 15 years in the children who go to a gym to build a body, get creatines, carnitines, backdrops to build a body. So these aren't standards. So you grow it through the schools. Sweden has put it in school, but what has it done? He has made a small pocket book, in which one can see the banned substances and is supplied by pharmacies. There is a four-digit number that someone can get on the phone - the corresponding General Secretariat of Sports ours - and they will tell him the list of banned substances. There are various food supplements in the neighborhood that we do not know if they will actually have an impact, because we do not know whether they are banned or not and we build protein standards. There goes the other guy in the gyms, in the hallway, in the step, anywhere, he gets his proteins uncontrollable, takes some steroids to build the body building. It's not like that! Standards are wrong. So we attach importance to recreational sport, if we want to hit doping and all these consequences, with all these deaths, the mutations and others.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u38	Mr. Booba, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u39	So, then, the doping thing wants discipline. No matter what national organisations we do, no matter what specialist laboratories we do, we always have to face the challenges of the time in order to get through it. Do a centre that tells us at all times and at all times, Mr Ausgeakis, Minister, what the banned substances are. Come in contact with pharmacists, just like the Swedes did. Give a book to the world know what's allowed and what's forbidden. Otherwise, there's nothing we can do. It'll be a symphony of effort. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u40	The next speaker is Mr Christos Bukokouros from New Democracy. Here you go, Mr. Buquoir, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to express my satisfaction at the fact that such a bill seems to be voted on by a large majority, despite any individual disagreements or criticisms made in the management of the issue of pharmacopoeia. I welcome the fact that, despite the fact that the bill contains mainly technical issues and technical terminology, the issue is very important to us Greeks, because euphoria has been a fundamental value of Greek culture that comes from far too far away. This, of course, did not protect our country from this modern, primarily, phenomenon - as historically as it goes a hundred, two hundred years back - and so we saw athletes glorified in the stadiums then, rightly, because they violated principles that are an integral part of Greek culture. But the whole story, Minister, reflects the competition of crime and law. We all know that crime finds a way to always be a step ahead of the law, to precede the law. Same goes for doping. Before learning about the masks of the pandemic, many years before we learned about the anabolic masks that are not easily identified, the tools that each organized state has, to deal with the phenomenon, a phenomenon that threatens fair play, which was the operative cause of the oldest to date - or one of the oldest - social and political phenomenon which is competitive sport. But does this mean that the law must stop trying, must it stop prosecuting the crime? Oh, no. The law has to be constantly modernised, discovers new tools and I think that, as the Minister of State has analysed from the Step of the House, with the involvement of new institutions renowned, such as the 'Democritus' laboratory - which, if you like, has given his credentials for many issues - the tools that exist in our country are being strengthened. I will not go into analysis because the Minister's analysis of what has been done so far was sufficient and what needs to be done. Nor should we be lured from the fact that today we are voting for a simple harmonisation of WADA, a regulation which was adopted at the end of last year and which has been in force since January 2021. However, I would like to pay tribute to the leadership of the Ministry of Sports, because it is coming to make a rapid harmonisation of this necessary legislation. From there on, there will certainly be different approaches. And the Civic Opposition has ruled. He tried to do some things. He left some gaps, which the Minister pointed out and which the current political leadership is coming to complete. It is a question of Greek culture and of Greek sport that I see as well unites a multitude of political forces. And it is important that this bill, ladies and gentlemen, because Greece is claiming a greater part than its extension to sport. Rightly so. That's what history answers. We don't have to claim it today. However, we must protect this country's right to protect it today and that is exactly what we are doing with this bill. Of course, certain parts of the sport industry will always find the way to escape controls, derogate, irregularity and illegality. That is why the state's effort must be coordinated, lasting and, if you like, make use of modern media. This is what today's bill offers, and it offers it in an adequate manner, given the tools we have. There will, of course, be other steps of illegality both in our country and in Europe and in the world as a whole. When the Olympic Games have been infected by the scourge, by the doping gangrene - and we always have some such examples - the opponent will always be there. We, unitedly and by contributing each other to its proposals, should have a policy on this issue, which is distinguished by the following. In other words, tomorrow's Minister for Sport must not break down what is being built by the current Minister, because in this sense the effort to control doping becomes ineffective and fragmented. Are we gonna track down all the phenomena? It's never gonna happen. Let's be honest. The red light passes it a thousand, but the trochomore unfortunately captures one or five or ten. This is going to happen all the time. However, this must not reduce the momentum with which we are giving this fight against the scourge and another reason, ladies and gentlemen. Whether we like it or not, athletes of all sports at national or European level are standards and especially standards for our youth. So the institutional framework must first protect athletes. Many of the articles on this harmonisation, this bill, provide for penalties for offenders, penalties for athletes, federations, for persons involved. This is clearly provided for in the articles. We're talking about coaches, about members of the team's technical team. It also provides for penalties for sports federations. The obligations and responsibilities of athletes shall be specified. The responsibilities and obligations of the involved staff shall be specified. The roles and responsibilities of other third parties involved in the sporting process shall be identified. We therefore have a tool. Together with the federation, the workshop, with the "Democritus", and especially the expressed political will of the Ministry's leadership, I think we are more powerful in the struggle with a very difficult rival, which has caused very great damage to the health of athletes, to the model of athletes, to sport, but especially to the public that glorifies it and the other one is disappointed, forced to restore athletes who were glorified both Greece and global sport. Therefore, Minister, all I have to say to you is 'Continue'! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u42	Good. The next speaker is Mrs Rallia Christidou from SYRIZA. Here, Mrs. Christidou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u43	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are coming to plenary today to vote to incorporate a code that had been passed since 7 November 2019 at the World Summit on Doping in Sport in Poland. In other words, seventeen months have passed since the World Summit, we are four months before the Tokyo Olympic Games and just now the New Democracy Government - quite rightly - brings translation of the text of World Anti - Doping Agency with the ultimate slowness. The same, of course, you've done the same in the past. The previous revision of the code by World Anti - Doping Agency had taken place in November 2013. By 2015 the New Democracy had done nothing at all for its adoption - two years that is lost - until the Greek legislation was recognised by SYRIZA's Law No.4373. And that wasn't the only problem around the doping we had to solve. Because a lot of things were said in committee by both the majority rapporteur and the Minister, to remind us that the National Anti-Doping Council had a budget of EUR 50,000 in 2013 and 2014 - that is, it was virtually inactive - and we quadrupled it, while at the same time paying the debts of millions to snipers. Also, there were accumulated debts to the USSR by groups, by organisations, totalling EUR 2.4 million, which you did not claim. We have claimed them by law and demanded either their repayment or their regulation. We, too, in difficult times, in memorandum periods, with budgetary pressure, paid back contributions to international organisations that you have left unpaid. We built the national platform for the fight against doping provided for by the UNESCO Convention, for which you were indifferent. That's when it comes to restoring the truth. In essence now: Doping, like many colleagues from all sides of Parliament, has said, is not just a sporting problem, nor is it just a health problem for those involved in its nets. It is the symptom of a disease that has eroded all the athletic structure and especially the championship. It is the result of a lack of morality that tends to dominate and which, in the name of victory, is prepared to violate every barrier. For many years it has not been a threat, it is a reality, a blatant reality that has been served by an entire system. We are referring - and quite rightly so - to the huge economic interests of pharmaceutical technology and the interests of advertisers, sponsors, who, through the performance of high championship, seek to promote profits and, of course, to promote their public image. All these are the top of a pyramid, but the basis for the problem erods society as a whole, reproducing a series of malicious things. We all know the classic example: A child starts in primary school a sport in a club, track, swimming, football, basketball, tennis, anything. The club is run by actors and has coaches. And that's where responsibilities begin. Some people stand out that the child has skills in relation to the rest. It follows one advice, "you have to take vitamins". The child tells parents, parents may accept it. The child with his effort, his talent continues, has successes, dedicates time, effort, dreams, and then the scientists come back and suggest some extra aids, some medical surveillance. You know, the word "anabolic" may not be heard directly, but anabolics are in the name of glory, in the name of material profit, because championship in all things is paid too high and in the name of "everyone does it, everyone does the same thing, why shouldn't you do it?" A lot of people will endure, get carried away. The cases of Greek and Greek champions and champions found positive in anti-doping tests, unfortunately, are too many. So, as a state, we have the responsibility of what I have described as not to accept it as a fait accompli. It is our duty to protect youth and sport from pharmacopoeia - doping - which reproduces at symbolic level and outside sports spaces the concept of all sacrifices of victory, even if the means are not so clear, even if the health or life, ours or others are at stake, even though I realize that my work and my effort may serve other interests and not my own after all. I repeat that these phenomena, ladies and gentlemen, belong to sport, as athletes are standards, but multipliers also operate outside sport. Winning becomes the ultimate value of land, everywhere, in work, in interpersonal relations. There are no more colleagues or fellow citizens, but only competitors, enemies. Honest effort is laughed at, solidarity is considered graphic. The doping model is the epitome of the idea that prevalence over others is all that matters. That is exactly what neoliberalism is theorizing, dissolving the social fabric and leading the community to its limits. At least, the bill we have in our hands is undoubtedly positive. Is it an adequate weapon, however, if it is not combined with another approach to sport at school, club, club? It is a completely inadequate weapon, ladies and gentlemen, and I close with it - if it is not accompanied by measures to support mass sport, with the support of amateur sport. And unfortunately, in this direction two and a half years now - not only during the quarantine, but also before, I am very afraid, in future, the same will be true - we have absolutely no movement on the part of the Ministry, which is consumed in intrigues, to reproduce and reproduce the customer-cycle in the administration of federations and unions. And that's all, while problems accumulate. And in sport, as everywhere, citizens understand exactly what that means, that is, what the so-called excellence of the New Democracy means and they will reward it very soon. Be sure! Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u44	Good. The next speaker is the Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution, Mr Hetas. Here, Mr. Heta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u45	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, firstly, a good month! Because today we are talking about sport and before I go into the bill, I would like to read to you: "To open fields, stadiums, parks, squares, places where people will be able to walk, they will be able to be sported. The consequences on children will be devastating. What we can do is tell the world what and where the danger is, rather than change the legislation for each gym." These words - you know - belong to Doctor Ioannides of Stanford, the man that many have swollen when he told you how disastrous lockdown is, the man whose systemic channels buried him - metaphorically I mean - and they never gave him the floor. You've committed crimes for the pandemic, I'll go back there, but I want to say some things about the bill, Mr. Ausgeakis, about the doping, about the scourge of modern sport. And as a journalist - sportsman twenty-seven years I haven't told you two-three things. The factors, you know, Mr Aygeakis, are much more harmful than doping, which is very harmful - I believe that very strongly, I think you believe it too - not just football in everything. Factors, for example, were starring - you will tell me, are the exceptions but there are - some time ago in the revelations of childbirth in unions, incidents that started by the revelations of Bekateros, which a few days ago claimed the Federation of Sailing, but its factors turned its back and were not elected. Well, I'm not gonna ask to talk about football players, because if I start talking about it, we'll never finish in here. Obviously, and unfortunately, we do not believe that this harmonisation, because it is about harmonisation, we will be hitting the problem at its root. And we will not solve the problem because just as no government has so far - not you, I do not say that you have bad intentions, which is equal to that which is very good and I hope you will succeed - has not shown any real will to deal with the phenomenon, I think that your own will not break eggs. The lack of ability, effectiveness and many times the indifference combined with the turtle rates we have here in Greece are the main inhibitors. And don't be foolish, Minister, what I mentioned is the reason WADA last October on your government withdrew certification from the lab we have for doping checks for six months. For us very important is, you know, another part on this doping issue. This is the strict penalties, which plays a very important role. If there were serious penalties such as the ones proposed by the Greek Solution, such as life expectancy or chemical castration for paedophiles, they would think of it ten times before these sick people spread their filthy hands. When the Greek Solution governs - and this time will come - these phenomena will cease to exist. The pediatricians will be in real life. We believe that the same logic should exist in doping. Penalties for offenders must be very strict and give them no room for preferential treatment. Otherwise, we really hope that you will put a little bit of stone and that we can even limit this phenomenon. And with regard to this part, the bill today is not a field of controversy. We may talk about the way in which one can fight this issue, but we really all wish to combat this phenomenon. As a parliamentary representative today you will give me the right to address some very serious issues, addressing the Greeks and Greeks, the Members of the ruling party and you, Minister, who are currently representing the Greek Government. So I couldn't help but mention something scandalous that happened the other day. While the Greeks on our islands, in Lesvos, Chios, Samos and Samos remain locked and under the conditions of incredible persecution, the European Commissioner, Johanson, along with the relevant Minister of the South Mitaraki, carried out a very challenging recreational trip to oversee the process of balancing our islands. The Greek Solution stands on the side of the fighting Greeks and now requires the transfer of all illegal immigrants to human structures on uninhabited islands. And I am sorry to say it today that it is also a April, because, Mr. Ausgeakis, we may disagree in many ways, both in the sporting part, but also in the ideological part, which is healthy. Besides, this is an area of exchange of views and political controversy. And that applies to everyone. It's legitimate and healthy to disagree, not between you and me, but all of us. But what is not desirable is that ministers should come to the temple of democracy and lie before MPs, before the representatives of the Greek people. And really today, the day it is, I want to say many years to Mr. Metarakis! Tell him many years because it's a April Day! It's a lie day!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u46	Why? Is he celebrating?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u47	What's he celebrating? Are you wondering if he's celebrating? It's the day of lies today! I'll talk to you about Tsipras, too, they're familiar. But we now have young people who claim this position, gentlemen of the New Democracy! And we'll prove why he's lying. That is why I say that we can have a different view of dealing with illegal immigration, economics, epidemiology and everything else you want, but not with lies! Because Mr. Metarakis lies when he says that the flows have stopped, which I will prove today once again. I show you the new arrivals in Lesvos last night! Here, look at the pictures! Here they are, and I'll testify them all together in the Minutes at the end. It's all here! He's lying! And he lied 15 days ago here in the Greek Parliament, when he brought an amendment to the Greek Parliament and said that the money they will get for hotels, and not only will they be tax-free, no one will be able to touch them, that there is no inside NGOs, etc. Do you remember them? He told me, I was sitting there! And we got the paper he deposited and had within seventeen NGOs! So he's lying! And we called him that day or go back to Parliament and apologise to the MPs, from the National Representation because he said shameless lies or resign. He hasn't done anything, he keeps lying. Third lie. He said the structures would be closed. Unfortunately for him, however, Mrs Johanson has disproved him. The structures will be open and we are talking about a huge scandal, because you are now going to make permanent facilities, permanent villages on our islands, permanent villages with illegal immigrants! And then I come to lie. ‘The sudden increase in arrivals of illegal immigrants. Seven boats, two hundred thirty people have landed on the island from March 25th to today." Is that a lie? The "caratina" goes slowly and the "work" starts now! Business! Let's get back to business! And if Mrs. European Commissioner, Mrs. Johanson, she is so friendly with illegal immigrants, she should put them on a plane, she should take them to Istanbul and go to Sweden. And let them decide from there, being in Sweden, whether they are legal or illegal. Also, to understand, Mrs. Johanson and Mr. Metarakis should be told where we are at war now! Do we have a war for these people to come? We're at war somewhere in our neighborhood, and we don't know? In addition, I read to you: "Varka with forty-three illegals arrived yesterday at 3:00 at dawn." At 3:00 a.m. he spotted our port and collected them from the sea. And while that happens, the Greek Statistical Authority, Minister and colleagues, is coming to give us a strong punch in the stomach. One hundred and thirty-two thousand deaths and only eighty-six thousand new births in 2020 for the Greeks! The largest population reduction recorded by the Greek Statistical Authority since 1932, except for the period of Occupation! We're talking about a regular ethnic homicide! We're talking about forty - six thousand Greek minions! And that's all 2020! So instead of being the first topic in the political confrontation between all the parties in here and instead of the political forces being conducive to the extinction of the Greek nation, the political system is dealing with Kalogris! I'm sorry, Mr. Kutsuba, but it's you! I'll borrow it! And I'm going to go a little bit to the pandemic where your catastrophe really doesn't end here, unfortunately! And it is a clear confession of defeat from "it is forbidden to move over the weekend" to "it is allowed to move only on the weekend". And obviously your demographic collapse has led you to the right opening of the market. So the government is thinking of opening up the market - and it is doing well, we have been calling it for a year now that it should never be closed - with a five-fold number permeated by what it had when it closed. You are fully entitled to us as a Greek Solution, which had promptly warned that universal closure, a horizontal ban on economic and social activity, would have disastrous effects. And it is unacceptable - and they should at some point be gathered - that ministers should come out as 'telemen' and that they should constantly make contradictory statements about the opening up of the port market. But you hear at 11:00, but you hear at 12:00, but at 14:00 and another at 15:00, without a plan. But no more lies, because this is where we lie. We had said from the first moment that 80% of the deaths in the "wave" that swept north Greece out of the ITH. We're right! We said Lockdown is destructive and that it increases mortality and morbidity. We were calling for a test, and we were right. All this ten months ago! We said we were skeptical about vaccines and we were right! You were telling us graphics. You were disproved and we were right! Now everything that we have proposed is accepted, and the tests and lockdowns, now that the market opens, despite the upheaval. Normally the government of Mr Mitsotakis and the Prime Minister himself would have to dismantle the committee yesterday, because this led him to these paths. Yesterday the committee had to go out! And I will also come to this national recovery plan presented yesterday by Mr Mitsotakis. And here the Prime Minister's announcements prove that there is no plan for recovery. The presentation of a sum of alleged Community aid, borrowing, private capital, in order to raise communication the amount of disposal, seems more like a bubble. And we really say it now that it's still early, that with communal wards there is neither growth nor productive reconstruction. A plan is needed, the Greek Solution Plan, the recovery plan and productive reconstruction, based on the principles of economic patriotism and the nation-state. It is the solution for the national, economic and social recovery of the country. It is not the competent ministers - and I am closing with that, Mr President, and I thank you anyway - but I would like to close with a very important issue that we were disturbed yesterday in the Greek Solution by our coastal fishermen. That's about it. I want it to be heard by a House Step and we will also come back with questions, but also with timeliness: Thirteen thousand coastal fishermen have been completely out of subsidisation of 11 million euros of the European Union. So what do we got here? Here's why you have to deal with the ruling party. The European Union has given a grant of EUR 11 million for coastal fishermen, of thirteen thousand vessels, five hundred and eighty boats have been landed. Question: Why? Answer: Why have you - not, the European Union, you - it is a failure, see it - a prerequisite for this subsidy to be granted to the coastal vessels to have the VMS satellite system, which is expensive - 3 to 3,5 000 euros - and which the European Union does not foresee anywhere. Look at it. Support Greek fishermen. They are the ones that will support our economy, fishermen, farmers, farmers, primary production, these. Look at these people. It's thirteen and a half thousand ships. They were all excluded from the grant of 11 million. Look at it. To help these people. These are the real problems with which the political system must deal and provide solutions for society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u48	Next speaker, Mr Kavadas Athanasios, from New Democracy. Mr. Kegeroglou, Mr. Loverdos, Mrs. Dounia and Mrs. Skondra will follow the course of talks with a natural presence. They will then speak two parliamentary representatives. Mr. Kavvada, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, good month to all of you. Having a long term term in the field of amateur sport, I believe in a healthy sports movement. In order to ensure this, in particular in the field of professional sport where the 'profit' factor is involved, the laws must exist and apply. And while in the field of amateur sport there is a great need for growth, rules are needed in the field of professional sport. The toxicity that has prevailed in previous years must be fought and removed. A series of pathogens have removed young people from their active involvement in sport in recent years. The new framework for the functioning of federations and associations strengthens transparency. However, we also need inspired policies from those who will be called upon to run the federations in the near future. Establishment and allocation of revenues from the "SECTOR" to professional and amateur sport in a equal distribution is a choice of the government, a choice that is being made and an incentive to sport. The bill that comes today for a vote in Parliament aims to shield sport from another toxic appearance. I am referring to doping, which is a scourge to sport. Greek sport has been severely affected in the recent past by such cases. We want clean athletes, clean sport, clean medals. We want friends of sport, those who watch and love sports, to know that what they see is pure, real, healthy. We want an effective framework for combating and controlling anabolic substances in sport. It is through the provisions of this draft law that the Greek institutional framework is being harmonized with the new updated Code of the Antidopting World Organisation. On the verbal level and in the field of intent, everyone is against doping. Acts and works are, however, what they count. The 2018 Antidopting World Organisation noted the gaps that existed in our country in the institutional and operational framework of services, which are responsible for controlling the use of anabolic substances in Greek sport. The Government of New Democracy has created a new independent authority, the National Anti-Doping Agency, with essential autonomy and independence, economic autonomy and expanded responsibilities. This is a modern and functional anti-doping organization. The new international revised anti-doping code, which is incorporated into national legislation, requires an independent authority that controls and guarantees its implementation. We are all aware of the problems encountered by the National Doping Combat Council, the gaps in compliance with the international framework. These gaps led to the removal of the recognition of the laboratory operating in the OAS, which faced sustainability and operational problems. The previous government may have passed legislation at the beginning of 2019 on the transfer of the workshop to the “Democritus”, but this did not solve any problem, since no Ministerial Decision had been adopted to transfer it, but neither did the regulatory provisions on funding and staff issues. All this has been resolved by the New Democracy Government. In addition to the EUR 2 million committed to strengthen the laboratory's equipment, it is planned to finance EUR 480,000 until it regains its accreditation and is recognised by the Antidopting World Organisation. EUR 400 000 will be available annually from the budget. The first tender for the supply of the laboratory equipment has already been completed with modern instruments worth 1.2m euros. From there on, conditions and conditions are created to carry out surprises and, above all, effective checks on athletes. Greece puts the foundations to become a country - a model in the control of the use of anabolic substances in sport, justifying the perimeter position it has over time and historically in the Olympic movement. Already in the first quarter of 2021, hundreds of checks have been carried out outside matches, while the entire three-year period 2016-2018 has become about two hundred. Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened with great satisfaction to the Minister's intention to lead an informational campaign to raise awareness and raise awareness about the prevention of doping, which I believe should start through schools. As an enthusiast of amateur sport, I believe that the first thing to be taught to children is that sport is not only about the body, but also about the soul, it is made up of character, it cultivates morality, it highlights high values and ideals that relate not only to high performance, but also to respect for the cohabiter, with the "easy", the value of effort and participation. These principles must have a weapon for children, especially those that they aspire to be tomorrow's champions. Because only so will they maintain their balance in the highly competitive environment of championship. Only that way will they resist doping will they remain whole people. Only so will they succeed in becoming truly successful athletes, regardless of wins and defeats. My conviction is that in such a bill standing on the side of athletes to help them protect themselves and what they love, the broad consensus of all political forces must be expressed to protect clean and healthy sport. Minister, I would like to congratulate you on the consistency with what you have promised, but also with what you have been observing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr. Kavada. Next speaker, Mr. Loverdos John, from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr President. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Today we are discussing a very interesting bill, because the country and the world are continuing, despite the appalling pandemic that we all have been under the last year, and that is why we must not abandon the changes that need to be made to the good of our society, because there is pandemic. It is right that the Government and the State Secretary, Mr Augias, bring this bill to an issue on which we at least formally agree. For what everyone does in their minds, I have some reservations. But we all officially agree that doping should be abolished, don't we? There must be no doping in sport. That's right. And why shouldn't there be doping in sport? For two reasons. The first is because it undermines healthy competition. They become Olympics and champions, people who don't deserve it. That's a key, for me, reason. The second reason is the great and terrible consequences and consequences for the health of the citizens and, above all, for the people involved in sport and there are too many of them. Because when we say sport, we don't only mean champions and Olympics. We're even talking about kids going to gyms and working out, and they're millions, not to say more, billions all over the world. So we must combat doping. That is what we agree, and I am glad that the opposition supports it. I've heard other points of view, of course. It is logical that other views should be heard in the context of an opposition mood. I have heard, to say, my dear - indeed, because I am very fond of the KIC Members, although I do not have the same political perceptions with them, but human and other politicians - Mr Synthraki, who said about the motivation, commercialisation of sport and that doping is caused by the commercialisation of sport. It's a left-wing view that exists as much as I remember myself. I remember that Mrs Sophia Sakova was saying before she became President of the SEGA when she was still an athlete of acousticism, who said about marketing sport.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u52	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u53	What can I tell you? And I would really like there to be an idyllic picture of what we all have in mind, a sport that goes for the laurel wreath, that doesn't care about anything but victory and participation, said by Pierre de Kuberteen. But there's no him, there's no real life. We have to be realistic. Mr Kotsos said earlier that there have been efforts for doping since ancient times. There will always be, and there will always be, because, as they quite rightly say, "the wealth of many has hated, the glory of no one" and victory especially in sport is glory. Dear Mr. Symphony, I don't want to embarrass you. I am not saying this to you, but doping in modern times, essentially in a scientific and systematic way, started by Eastern Europe, started by the Democratic Republic of Germany, which had brought it to a major issue, because through successes in sport a country of only seventeen million inhabitants, compared with sixteen and sixty-five, which the Federal Republic of Germany had reached for it to be the first or second force in world sport, which had nothing to do with it. Why? Because they said that by means of sport we will show the power of theology and of the regime. So it's a political weapon for too many dopings. I do not hide from you that I am not at all sure if it has not been done in Greece at times. In 2004, I think we have shown tolerance to some phenomena. I say it out of my teeth. How is it possible in 2004, when the Olympic Games were held here, that Greece was suddenly filled with Olympics? It wasn't all clear and they came out on the way. Then they came out. So doping is also used for commercial purposes and to profit from some companies and to profit from some doctors and some athletes and some coaches and much more, some middlemen. It is also used for the glory of the regime in some cases, for the glory of the Federation, for glory in general. And that's the problem, that's the big problem with doping. I remember being told to me by an anti-doping athlete that the way doping is faster than anti-doping. It's very difficult to fight it in practice. I am sure that both the international Olympic Committee and most governments are prepared to fight. It is not easy, and they do not have sufficient means. Look, for example, what's going on with Jamaica. Jamaica is a country of three million inhabitants and has the largest number of short distance runs - a hundred, two hundred, four hundred - out of all the countries of the world, even from the United States of America, which has three hundred and thirty-three hundred million inhabitants and much more financial resources than it has Jamaica. Why is that? I think the answer is reasonable. So the bill is in the right direction, and that is why we all have to vote on it and vote on it, and it is good what is happening. I would just like to make a point before I finish, Mr President, for thirty seconds because the SYRIZA's rapporteur has now entered. You made an attack this morning on your suggestion against Mr. Augiakis for the interventions he made in the federations to put, to shove "his" people. Mr. Augias brought a bill that we voted on before to change the administrations of the federations that were decades old. That's right, in the right direction was this bill and it had to be done. These people who have been sitting for years had to be changed, and we may even have reached corruption in the federations. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Now these presidents are changing to too many federations. If I had made interventions, I don't know them, I wasn't ahead. What does not fit into my logic, however, is: How is it possible, if Augeakis intervened, that Mrs Sophia Sakorafa was elected President of the European Union? Has Aygeakis intervened in favor of Sacorafa?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u54	Finish, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u55	Has Aygeakis intervened in favour of Zorgokis?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u56	That's what others put him in.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u57	Zorgakis, the Chief of the National Team in 2004, who took two hundred thousand votes in the European elections, would come out like this? Let's be serious. All you can say to me is that from now on, it should not be for the federations to be the party MPs. That's what I'll agree with. Take it easy!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u58	I will give the floor now to Mr Kegeroglu from the Change Movement, then the parliamentary representative of Mera25 Mr Gregoriadis will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u59	You know what you've done and what you haven't done primarily! I was listening to Mr. Ausgakis from my office. So far we have had the caccape "Tsipras trying to copy Andreas Papandreou". Today, April, something is done and the dear Mr.Avgenakis said that "we welcome the elections and the results, because renewal has won". Let me remind you that Andreas Papandreou had said this when we had lost as PASOK all the major municipalities. He said: "The victory of self-government is over." That's where you copied it. The truth is different, sir. But I want to start my current position with a reference to George Fountoullakis and express my warmest condolences to his family. He was a man who was a fighter of life anyway as a disabled person, but also a worker of the para - Olympic movement in our country. He was one of the prototypes. It's loss beyond life and for the field of sport. Ladies and gentlemen, Greece, Europe and the whole world are fighting for a pandemic. Weaknesses and errors in decisions and operations are considered to be to a certain point inevitably and inevitable. But what is not inevitable and is not justified is the repetition of errors by lack of evaluation and use of experience. But, above all, there must be no tragic inadequacies in governmental manipulations, which, along with the intentions, create an explosive mixture that threatens both social cohesion and democracy and the democratic functioning of institutions. The so-called 'final state', which - I recall - is based on the basic principle that all decisions taken by Maximos, by the Prime Minister's office, are announced and implemented by the Ministers and the State Secretarys. If they are considered successful then the Prime Minister is rejoiceful - and from this step we are seeing a parade of Members who applaud the right decisions of the Prime Minister - but if not, they are charged with the ministers and the State Secretarys. That's an end state. This is a final State which promotes, in the midst of a pandemic, the award of works and supplies without tenders with the veil of the legality of the exceptional provisions, but which have become the norm. What 'exceptional' is when there is no exception to the exemption? It's a rule now. Recruitment is being promoted everywhere, culminating in the vertical growth of posters in Maximos and the Ministries. You've even exceeded the SYRIZA record of which we had both denounced the previous government. The around two thousand seven hundred or nine hundred SYRIZA people - I don't remember exactly - are now a record that fell. The record is now held by New Democracy with three thousand thirty posters. Not even the space of sport was excluded at a time when everyone was there, and now there are the conditions to open up a broad social, political, public dialogue to cultivate the sporting spirit, to strengthen the sporting institutions and to reward those who minister for volunteering and sport in order to create motivation for young people as well. The government prioritised government and party intervention in the sport movement. It's proud. It's all over the place. The only one who does not accept it, although indirectly he accepted it by Mr. Loverdos earlier that I succeeded him in Stepma, is Mr. Augerakis. The results of this intervention are boomerang for the government. Anyone who tries to rape things faces this reality. The results for the majority of sports federations are a slap for government interventions. But those who think that this is a personal failure of Mr Ausgeakis are mistaken. It's a choice of government and Mr. Mitsotakis. The Prime Minister's office, instead of dealing with the pandemic, was calling about the elections in the federations. I've got too much. I am not allowed at this step to say it, but if I am invited by any judge or other official, of course I will testify to almost all the federations that I have knowledge of. And you personally called, Mr. Ausgeakis. You know and we know very well what we have discussed. Like politically you have brought twenty amendments, many of which have had photographic provisions and have been interventionist and you have lost twenty plus one federation, except for two - three elected worthy people, etc. They turned your back on you. I would like to congratulate everyone elected in the recent elections on this point. To wish them good strength, but also to congratulate those who participated, with the incentive of their love for sport, but were not elected, because there are too many people who were not elected and who had entered because of this incentive. I should also like to congratulate those who entered and listened because they were involved in a project of purpose which was inappropriate at this time. The sports movement didn't need this intervention. And I am not talking about the institutional interventions that Mr Lovers spoke about earlier because many are necessary and we supported them which were necessary. I am referring to the feasibility of both party and government intervention. Interested business or economic or other which have tried in a number of federations linked to them, have been disproved. I'm hanging up, saying that...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u60	Mr. Kegeroglu, despite the fact that your time has been completed, you have consumed all your speech on the results of the recent elections. Excuse me, but that's the contents of the bill. Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u61	Excuse me. Let me explain.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u62	It's not a matter of forgiveness, you have the floor anyway. Just talk to the microphone to record what you're saying in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u63	You want to hear me? It could be my fault. I am replacing Mr Scandalidis as a Government Representative and I have 12 minutes. I'm sorry, I forgot to say it. Maybe he hasn't come yet...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u64	Excuse me, Mr. Kegeroglu!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u65	No, I do not forgive you, Mr President! I'm giving you a statement. You're telling me to do it in the Minutes, and I'm off.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u66	I called on you to take the floor because you are on the list of speakers and you have the right to speak for seven minutes, and with the tolerance of the Bureau. No one ever informed us...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u67	I'm talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u68	You'll have him next year, but you'll listen to me. No papers came to the Bureau...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u69	Your intervention is pointless, and it looks like Mr. Ausgakis's in the federations.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u70	It is inappropriate, because we have said since the beginning of the sitting that the Members of Parliament have...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u71	What do you want? Would you like me to get off the Step and then take the floor again in addition?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u72	You don't want to hear!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u73	You're an arteriosclerical. You're not the Bureau! Could you...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u74	I'm sorry, but a congressman's coming up...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u75	You called me to make my speech, Mr. President, and I told you there was a mistake with...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u76	Will you let me talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u77	Mr President, having said that he is the parliamentary representative now...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u78	Mr. Moraite, because you're referring to this to you...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u79	You're not a fair president. You may have other problems, but not with me, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u80	Please, Mr. Kegeroglu! You should have informed the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u81	You continue the same violin! Keep going to see where you're gonna end up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u82	It's unacceptable what you're doing. Go on, then, since you are a parliamentary representative to say what you want to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u83	Thank you. But when the paper is signed by the Secretary of Parliament and his statement in the Minutes, it is enough, Mr President. Today the sports movement needs...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u84	Don't scratch wounds! No papers came. We are now calling your parliamentary group to send us paper. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u85	Now I'm telling you that the paper is signed by the secretary...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u86	You're just sticking to the style...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u87	What can I say? You have a problem, Mr President, to preside over. At the next Conference of Presidents, you should put it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u88	Do I have a problem? Your group is also in the problem. It's not our problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u89	All right, now!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u90	The "good" elsewhere!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u91	We have three minutes to make pointless procedural remarks to us.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u92	Please! Make an observation now!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u93	You make remarks.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u94	Keep up the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u95	Please let me talk. Let me talk, okay?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u96	Where and where? Do not give rise to procedural questions, for which you and your parliamentary group are responsible.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u97	I didn't cause, you interrupted, and you continue! And keep going! Do I have the floor? So in the one minute I have, after three - four that the President has spent on the procedure...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u98	You have secondary and tritology as a parliamentarian.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u99	We call on you, Mr Aygeakis, after all this and as long as it is time, to leave the tactics that you have been following up to now and to be guided, to deal with sport policy and not with micropolitics, with the real problems of space, which, like all the pandemic areas, are experiencing the difficult ones. The pandemic has hit thousands of people and sport. They need support. Mostly, however, we need a plan for the next day. That is what everyone can contribute, with their criticism, to our disagreement with our proposals. We can contribute to a plan for the next day, see, and on the occasion of the announcements made yesterday about the Recovery Fund, what can be best for sport the next day, using resources from the Recovery Fund. This draft law, which deals with the fight against doping, essentially comes to strengthen the attempt to tackle a problem, which is of course a problem since antiquity. However, at the time of intense commercialisation of professional sport, it is absolutely essential that rules, transparency and prevention be continuously strengthened. I believe that the WADA proposal to improve the current regulation will have a significant contribution to dealing with doping. We cannot, of course, change or amend its provisions, but this revision, updating the code, will help things. However, the bill, which came at the last minute literally, could have come much more ahead, considering that 7 November 2019 this new code has been decided, given that from 1 January 2021 it applies and has been incorporated into other countries. So we are talking about a long period of delay, which has been lost for no reason. The code must be included, as it is a legitimate and binding framework of WADA, in order to deal with the doping phenomenon. The National Anti-Doping Agency, the EEC - and I would like to make two comments and close - should have been set up in place to replace the ESRB. They have been waiting five years for the accreditation act for the certification of the organisation. That is a delay from the previous government. Legislative interventions have taken place, but this work has not been completed. The result? The workshop for doping checks in Greece you know very well that it lost to certification from October 1, 2019. Legislative intervention had taken place to transfer it to the "Democritus" and again took months of inertia. Under the responsibility of the previous government we also arrived in August 2019 to issue a CPU for the transfer of the lab. It's been a long time. We want two answers: Firstly, if the WADA requirements for the laboratory to be staffed and operated today have been met and, secondly, although and then the laboratory will regain the certification so that we do not have to send to other countries. Closed up, I'll say once again that we're here. If you decide that you will stop bipolarism and micropolitics, to deal with sport policy, we are available with our proposals, beyond our criticism, to help shape the plan for the next day, because it is obviously not easy for sport in general, nor for people in sport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u100	The Parliamentary spokesman of Mera25 Mr. Claus Gregoriadis now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u101	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, you know, the ordinary people, the citizens who are still free, for now, in our country, you know what they think after two years, that the government is trying to convince them that the economy is flying or flying, if the pandemic had not come, despite the fact that we have been braked, even though we have been out of the targets already since the first quarter of its government and the second, which began in 2020, this has been dramatically, but in particular in this obsessed attitude, to say for a year - falsely - that you have hired about seven, eight, ten - no one knows how many - thousands of health and doctors and to let the false suspicion that some of them are supposed to be permanently recruited. When I hear you say that you have found the wonderful, god-dessed project "HRAKLIS", with which you will give, I will be peaceable in passing, that you will give 12-13 billion to the predators only to save the banks and the homes of the people who had reddened their loans, when I hear you say - what to first remember - that a million fellow citizens have been vaccinated, while everyone knows, and the stones still know, that of unfortunately the four hundred thousand have taken both instalments, while the other six hundred have only taken one. They want, depending on the vaccine that was vaccinated, at best forty days to the worst two and a half months to make the second dose. When I hear you say, say, say... When I hear, on the other hand, the Civic Opposition of the country has been saying for two consecutive years that it has taken us out of the memorials, that we are supposedly not in a memorandum now, when we hear the Civic Opposition saying that when the country's government handed over, it has not just run down to take off, but that the very bad governance of this government is it - and the coronary, of course, but, above all, very bad governance - and it is the economic policy that has brought about, and the stones know that the previous government - and I am sorry to say so, I also have emotional relations with the people who represent SYRIZA here - brought a memorandum that binds the country by 2060, the most long-term memorandum, a memorial that can therefore be banned, it eliminates out of any chance of recovery of our economy until 2060. Why? Because it is absolutely essential for the memorandum, because it involves surpluses which we exceptionally do not now observe for a two-year period, but we will be called upon to observe and we will be called upon to balance what we owe them the next two years. Therefore, when the government is alleged to be lying like this to the Greek people, when the Qualified Opposition opposes another type of lies, but yet again lies to the Greek people, then it is reasonable what citizens think. Do you know what citizens think? I call it a little humorous, a little in love, but mostly horror. They are thinking of why we do not establish the Capital as an annual celebration of the Greek Parliament, to accept the truth and to say that it will be our celebration, since, in any event, they are lying in this Chamber, let us accept it and officially so that the Greek people know that it is celebrating us on this day. I'm saying this to ease the climate a little. As far as the bill we are discussing today is concerned, I will only say one thing. I will be extremely brief, Mr Ausgeakis. Not to forget, of course, since we are talking about sporting bills, not our own, which is self-evident, but all of the Greek people, who at last a free, independent man and even a female man, a woman - 'the woman is half of heaven' - is, for the first time, the most historic union in Greece, in the confederation of Greece, in SINGA, and a woman, what kind of woman? Inadmissible, a woman who never conspired, a woman who never sat down to enjoy the joys of power, but every time the party that served betrayed her principles, she left this party and went to a new one, who had no chance of leading, as she did with Mera25, and as a miracle of gods sent, with the help of the Greek people, to play his role Mera25. So, let's say, it's a pleasure for all of Greece, all the honest people involved in sport, all our athletes, who an inadvertent and honest man - and indeed a woman, a woman - has been at the wheel of the SEGA since yesterday. As far as the bill we are talking about today is concerned, I will only be content to tell you a story that I love very much and tell my friends. They once asked the famous Winston Churchill, this very great political and very important man: "Are you sick? And he replied: “Of course. I walk too much, following the funerals of all my friends who were training." You know, except for the word fan, there's the word enthusiasm. It is a Greek word and it means that he is an enemy of sport. No logically thinking man can be an enemy of sport, as he cannot overlook the animal status we have. We are animals as well as living creatures, and we have an animal status, as we once did, before we became predators. We should therefore somehow maintain a natural situation that is similar to our animal status. So no human could have serious arguments against sport. However, all the people thinking about me must have very serious arguments against this completely absurd, sophisticated, paranoid championship or say it more appropriate for everyone who listens to us to understand it. Do you, ladies and gentlemen, any human beings in the world who can run, spend in eight seconds the distance of 100 meters? No, there is no, there is no, and it will not be born, I inform you of the evolutionary Darbian process that continues to evolve over the centuries of the century. There are certain physical limitations so we can't get down under eight and a half seconds. But now we're down. And we're down 'cause we dope. It's so common secret that champions who an honest champion who thinks of going down to Olympiad or to a world unreserved knows that he will face the final if he manages to get there his seven wildly-doped colleagues. So basically the commercialisation of sport, which makes the huge multinationals, 'COCA-COLA' and so on. - let me not advertise them from here, as I said unadvertising - wanting to identify them well with a superhuman, with a man whose four-headed head is greater than the breast of a last-century wrestler - there this athletic deformation - has arrived, pushing happily and uninterruptedly all these young children who are in trouble with idealism and pure love for sport in becoming superhumans, taking substances that my colleague from the Greek Solution has said are getting pregnant because they have of course used their women's urine in the anti-dong control, which happened to be pregnant. Mr. Cooper was that athlete. So, don't be ridiculous and don't talk like we have a society beautifully morally and angelically framed. We don't have it. It's not that I'm supposed to be evil, criminal one step ahead of them and the state is after them. No, no, it's not like that. It is clear that the state and crime work together to a certain extent. To tell you exactly, the state has been making the wrong eyes to crime, coordinates, time-consuming and intergrouping for many, many years. In short, as we all say - as we all say - that if the police wanted to catch the usual suspects, but they don't want - because they create the alibi so that they can beat all the rest of us, with them, - just like that - I tell you right away, looking at you in the eyes, Mr. Aygenakis and not only you, but also all your predecessors - if you wish, you would have ended well with the doping. If you'd like to. You don't want to see why a country that doesn't have sports hits is a bankrupt country. That's how we've learned our people. We've learned him to want successes, to want first-rates that don't even correspond to our boi. How do you expect a 10 million-dollar country to get the World Football Championship? It can't be done. Unless football players become dopees and run more than the Germans, by the French, than the Italians, something that we have not seen is very feasible. So, in fact, doping, anabolics are inherent in the vanity cultivated by Western societies, cultivating liberal policies that we are the first to be, we are the best, we are the ungodly, we are the winners against everything. Winston Churchill, who was certainly a normal neoliberal, had another opinion. He was saying. Of course, I walk and work hard at friends' funerals. That's why I told you. I'd like to talk a little bit about self test. It's a very good idea and as I always fear it'll be a very bad execution. You know safely, there will be our fellow people who will find it difficult to make those very simple, the simplest ones would say self test. What solution do we find in this? We don't find a solution as a society. So we tell them you're going to the pharmacy, take the self test for free - which I will prove to you later that it's not free - and if they come out positive, Oops! No one in charge of this government thought what would happen when the positive ones came out? We know from the Committee on Infections, I do not say it from my head, that it is hundreds of thousands of asymptomatic agents in our country right now. Another three hundred, four hundred, against another five hundred thousand, and that seems to be the most likely number. So what's gonna happen? Firstly, everyone who finds a positive sample in their self test will have a battery on its end that will be filled with a rich viral load, which will have no prediction of where it will be stored. Where will it be stored? In pharmacies' unusable baskets? Then he'll go to the trash. In the trash, you have all managed, after ten years of memoirs, to fish their food or valuable items for them on the second market - on the secondary market, as the capitalist economists would say - our poor fellow men. And they'll be in touch with the batteries that will be rich in viral load from COVID -19. Also, these will be managed by garbagemen, that is, people who do the most honorable work and who will have to do something with all this viral load. You know, I'm talking about batteries, and it seems funny. I'll let you know that it'll be five hundred thousand of these batteries, it'll be a pound of viral load. What will happen to these fellow citizens - I wish I was not one of them - who would discover in the self test that they were positive at the pharmacy? They'll want to protect their lives. And the first thing you do to protect your life is to certify with 100% validity that you are or aren't sick. Because as you know self test is not very valid, they have much lower percentages than molecular ones. Everyone's gonna want to run a molecular test to know if their lives are threatened or not. Is it like this or not? Obviously it is. What will happen then, ladies and gentlemen? It will happen once again that, after a year, the government's ability to do more than seventy - seventy - five thousand molecular tests a day will happen. So when he's invited to do five hundred or three hundred thousand molecular tests a day, he'll say come from week to month, come from month to month. And then you know what's gonna happen? These people, our fellow citizens will be dragged into the private sector to certify their self test with molecular test, which costs between 50 and 60 euros. I did it because the House did not have time to give me the results within eight hours, as the private sector does, but it would give me two days. I did it myself, and I know. I'm passionate. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, two more minutes, I would also like to refer to summer school, because I have promised. So when the first test comes out, they won't be sure again, just like I wasn't sure, just like you weren't sure. They'll want a second and a third. EUR 180 will reach the free tests for the poor first positive ones. Think about it and think about what anorganization this is all about. I don't want to talk about the schools that open up again. And I wonder if any of you have thought that they're gonna need masks, not the ones you gave in elementary school that was holistic even for high school seniors. They're gonna need masks for high school kids this time, but they're not homogeneous. And if they're not homogeneous, they have the right material. Because we imagine terrible things after what we've seen. I shall end, Mr President, by speaking a little bit about the esoteric high school. You know, it's a tragic injustice to Mrs. Keramea's bill. Actually, it's Mr. Mitsotakis' bill not to be fooled. A male principle is New Democracy, and it's banging this thing. I do not remember having since I was a child, not since I was a politician. On this, then, the bill that has too many problems, which privatizes or opens doors to privatise our education, is also in my view an editorial. It is the article that removes the premium for students in the summer schools. It is the article that says this and hears a reversal of reality and a provocative reversal of the truth: Mrs Kerameos or the author dares to say "for equivalency". And one so morbid mind dares to present to the Greek people as a isology the abolition of the last advantage these eternally unjust, those who want to study while they work for ten hours. And is it equal to tell them we're going to deal with you in the same way as those who don't work, that their parents have money to send them a tutorial, and that in any case the tenth of the hour that other people have to read? Oh, no. At least when you break up something that somehow restored a elementary equivalency, you can't invoke reasons of equality to impose it. It's a disgrace! I am telling you, therefore, that you really think about establishing as a celebration of the Greek Parliament on April, because in the short term, we are at risk - without being to blame - the citizens taking us with stones. You know, it's hard to say you're a stateman, you're a MP anymore. Thank you very much for your patience and tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u102	You didn't tell us about the bill. Will you vote for it?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u103	I said 'Here'.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u104	Good. The next speaker is Mrs Panagiota Dunia from New Democracy. Mrs Skondra, Mr Moraitis and Mrs Sukoulis - Villalis will be followed. Here, Mrs. Dunia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u105	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good month, everybody. Before I begin my speech, I would like to congratulate Mrs Sophia Sakova on taking up her new duties and wish her a success in her work. Ladies and gentlemen, dealing with doping is a great bet for the government, for sport, but also for society as a whole, because sport and doping are not going together. They're contradictory, contradictory concepts. Sport is distinguished by positive values such as euphoria, it teaches us respect, discipline, noble speech, team spirit and to try hard to achieve our goals. The sincere, laboring effort, all this difficult path towards making significant performances, is the one that gives high sports performances their value. Artificially enhanced overdoing, like all fake, has nothing worth talking about. The New Democracy Government has shown the great importance it attaches to sport since the beginning of its term of office. That is why the reduction - and why not eradicate - pharmacism effects of athletes has been a key part of our sport project since the very beginning. Ladies and gentlemen, with the taking up of the country's administration by New Democracy, the chaotic situation in which the institutional framework of the anti-doping control had come to Greece was immediately revealed. The two main pillars we had for anti-doping were in collapse, with a visible, unfortunately, risk that our athletes would be excluded from all international sports events. In particular, the National Anti-Doping Council, the so-called ESRBAN, as an existing structure of the General Secretariat of Sports, was insufficient. He was unable to support his role and had a lack of staff, infrastructure and functional independence. At the same time, the Antidonping Control Laboratory had stumbled into such an impotence, so that it has come to lose its accreditation. The New Democracy has decided to change this situation radically. Already in its work in this sensitive area, the government has had considerable work to do, in fact, in the extremely difficult conditions of pandemic. Thus, among other things, the Ministry of Culture and Sport has replaced the National Council for the Combat of Doping with the establishment of the National Anti-Doping Agency, the EEC. The Doping National Anti-Fraud Agency implements a modern, annual control-sharing plan based on risk assessment, focusing on the control programme outside the race. In order to improve the functioning of this organization, we have carried out, ladies and gentlemen, the transfer of its services to modern and operational facilities at the OAKA. We have also guaranteed its operational independence both by the government and, of course, by the sports federations. We have also made it possible for its financial autonomy by adopting its budget for the year 2021. We have thus created an independent body, a legal person of private law with economic autonomy, its own spaces and personnel. The EEC's full operation is expected to be achieved within the next period of time. At the same time, our Government launched all the necessary procedures to restore the accreditation of the Athens Antidopong Laboratory in collaboration with the Research Centre "Democritus". In particular, in July 2019, it implemented the administrative place of that laboratory at the ‘Democritus’ CSR in order to facilitate the coverage of its needs to staff, but also to equipment. In other words, the government, immediately after taking up its duties, gave its mark, pointed out its will for a healthy Greek sport with prestige and international credibility. The bill we are debating today comes, ladies and gentlemen, to continue this effort by the Ministry of Culture and Sport. It does so by harmonising our national institutional framework with the newly revised Antidopting Code of the World Organisation of Antidopting. As you know, the World Code of Antidoping is the fundamental text on which the World Antidoping Programme is based. Its purpose is to protect the fundamental right of athletes to be sported without the use of stimulation drugs. To this end, the code seeks to achieve it by ensuring harmonised, coordinated and effective programmes at national and international level in terms of identifying, preventing and preventing doping. The global code drawn up on the basis of the principles of proportionality and respect for human rights and the revision of which was adopted unanimously in 2019 at the World Conference on Doping in Poland, entered into force on 1 January 2021 and is now voted on by the Greek Parliament, replacing it in force until now n.4373/2016. The draft law we are called upon to vote on in order to harmonise our legislation with the revised text of the Code, specifies the list of banned substances and methods, describes the process of analysis of samples and how the results are managed. Also, reference is made to the disciplinary procedure and the disciplinary bodies that are seized after the indication of infringement of an anti-doping rule. The right to a fair hearing and the procedural procedure for progress of the trial is also established. A competent primary court is designated as the Primary Disciplinary Committee of the National Anti-Dopong Agency and as the Higher Council for the Resolution of Sports Disputes. At the same time, the possibility of appeal is also laid down in the International Court of Appeal. The bill in question also sets out penalties and penalties for athletes, groups and federations that violate the anti-doping rules, and provision is made for the automatic cancellation of all the duties and privileges of the offenders. Finally, the responsibilities and obligations of all concerned persons and bodies on anti-dumping rules, prevention and prevention are specified in detail. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that doping undermines not only the career of athletes, but also the authority of a country in international sport. That is why the restoration of the Greek anti-doping must be completed as soon as possible. The government's will to fight doping and to ensure the proper functioning and independence of the competent authorities is given to it. We must all together, together, put aside the blemishes and mistakes of the past, apply a stricter institutional framework to prevent doping and protect healthy sport, that is, the sport that makes us proud, gives us simple pleasures and gives our children the best standards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u106	We are also grateful for the consistency in time. Now Mrs Skondra Silina has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, Mr President. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Culture and Sport Mr Eleftherios Augias presents for the Minutes the above mentioned legislative improvements, which are as follows:]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[To enter pages 186, 187, 188]] Minister, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by congratulating the newly elected federations and wish them a good job and a good job. Ladies and gentlemen, we firmly believe in the New Democracy is the euphoric struggle to be all present, to dominate all types of sport and to ensure both institutional and practical of all those involved. Since the first moment the government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis took over the country, it has been our priority to improve the overall framework for sport in our country. We were committed to highlighting the healthy part of sport, so that more and more people and especially young children could become a point of attraction. We have made it clear in all directions that this is a sensitive area where multi-level improvements and reform of existing structures are needed. There was a record of the need for bold reforms to bring in new bases, unleash the blurred landscape and deal with serious pathogens and shortcomings. In addition to the other important legislative initiatives of the Government and of the Minister responsible, Mr Aygeakis, in the field of sport, we have been called upon to address the serious problems caused by the frugality of the SYRIZA Government in the field of anti-doping. We all know that pharmacopoeia is a great scourge in the modern age of sport. It is not just about professional sport, it is not only about leading athletes, it is not about specific sports. Unfortunately, the doping world has entered from many years into various levels of sports events, even in amateurs and more than anyone involved in sport regardless of age. Like a drug trying to invade everywhere, promising increase in stamina, muscle mass, strength and velocity. Against this nightmare, which essentially destroys sport and the health of athletes, there is a fundamental document, the World Antidopting Code, whose purpose is to protect the right of athletes to participate in competitions without the use of drugs. At the end of 2017, the process of revising the code began. After three conciliation phases, over a period of two years, the new revised Code was adopted unanimously on 7 November 2019 at the World Conference on Doping. Harmonised and coordinated practices are implemented at both national and international level to identify, deter and prevent it. The proposed draft law incorporates in the Greek legal system the revised code which entered into force on 1 January 2021 in place of Law 3473/2016. So in view of the problems we inherited from SYRIZA's flaw and with a visible risk that our country might be isolated from the global sports community, we have committed as a government to prioritising the immediate resolution of the situation from the outset. I would remind you that, in the light of the demands of the Antidopting World Programme, the existing structures we have received have been completely insufficient and the National Anti-Doping Council, the ETUC, as a collective body supported by staff from the General Secretariat of Sports, has not been able to fulfil its obligations. After consulting WADA, we have set up an independent body, the National Doping Control Agency, EOKAN. We have ensured its financial autonomy with an annual regular budget of EUR 1.50,000 and transferred its services to modern, fully equipped and operational facilities at the OAS. The aim of the Government is to staff with qualified staff and to start up the new organisation in about two months, so that it can fully meet the requirements of the Code. For the anti-doping workshop we have already made progress in its administrative subjection to one of the top research institutes in the country, at the CSR "Democritus", to facilitate the provision of staff first and foremost and of course equipment. Its transfer took place in July 2019, in order to have financial independence and recruitment capacity, as these were from WADA's main observations. In close cooperation with both the Ministry of Development and the "Democritus" the Minister of Sports Mr.Avgeakis ensures that his accreditation is recovered and reopened. So while we are going through an unforeseen period because of COVID -19, which admittedly left its negative footprint on international sport and not just, the government's political will to ensure the proper functioning and independence of the authorities responsible for combating doping is given and negotiable. We must recognise that the unfavourable climate of the past has been reversed, as has negative evaluations. It took order on open issues, the necessary changes were launched and now we are in complete compliance with the standards of the global organisation. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to close my position by repeating to all the sides of this House our firm belief that the fight must take precedence over all types of sport and ensure both institutional and practically by all those involved. For New Democracy, sport is a social and cultural asset that improves ourselves, of course, but also our society. We believe it is the place of noble speech and it is a means of socialization and treatment. Our Minister, Mr Leuteris Aygeakis, is a society of this kind I believe and determined to solve problems that existed in Greek sport. With methodicity and hard work of his own and his staff, he continues his work so that Greek sport can flourish again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u108	The Deputy Minister of Culture and Sport, Mr. Eleftherios Augias, has called for the floor for some legislative improvements. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to table the legislative improvements. This is a technical text, which is, in fact, about corrections and improvements in certain conditions, in order to be more precise. If you don't have any objections, I'll just testify. Normally I have to read it, but I think we're gonna have time and there's no reason.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u110	No, no, for an economy of time, testify to it and share it with the parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u112	The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Moraite Athanasios, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I go into the important issues raised by the bill and, in particular, on the issues that have been raised today by both colleagues and rapporteurs, I would like to refer to the political topicality and, above all, the last difficult two days, which we are spending as a country. The last two days are quite critical and we are at a very critical pandemic. The country is experiencing a tragedy, unfortunately. Over eight thousand of our fellow humans have lost their lives. ICUs are in red. More than a hundred of our fellow men right now are asking and have no IDs and they have simple support. What is clear now is that the government, with all the revolts, with all the criminal decisions and policies that followed, has lost control of the pandemic. But what goes beyond any previous, especially those critical times that the Greek people are going through, is that you, Minister, have an arrogant and state-of-the-art behaviour that will allow me to say that it is without precedent. These difficult times, I repeat, which the Greek people are losing - and rightly so - confidence in the government with what Mr Gerapetti did yesterday, who recommended to the committee what should be followed, do you understand what we are at present? And I ask: is there a citizen in the country who can now respect the opinion or decision of the committee? Of course not. And, of course, I would remind Members who, at the moment, may be dismayed by what I say, take you three or four days ago. But half the ministers said this morning, but half the others at noon, and others heard from the channels at night about the relaxation of the measures. A relaxation of measures imposed on you - take care - because unfortunately you are a government that is communication to you is a god and polling guide. So that's where we've arrived. The country has been closed with a thousand two hundred cases, and at the moment, at the'red', you are forced by polls, you are forced by communication policy. And what we were expecting yesterday was really a new plan, because we finally heard what was not allowed 15 to twenty days ago, this weekend being allowed. So this is the image of a government - parody - a government that does not regret us for losing the confidence of the Greek people. What particularly regrets us is that confidence in the scientists is lost. We said from the outset that there had to be a plan, a plan responsible for how citizens, society, the market and small and medium-sized enterprises are to be held up. You did not do so and instead went on the basis of the polls and what your communication policy imposed on you. You never came up with a plan to open tourism last summer. I'm sure you don't. You have never seriously made it possible to see the big issue of traceability in the population and then come a year later to talk to us about self test and now finally target the pharmacists for the evolution we have had, after you have targeted the whole of society in the past period, when young people, when professionals, when private doctors, if I remember well, colleague, now the pharmacists. That's what you've been doing all this time so you can cover up your criminal responsibilities. The bad news, however, is that your policy is now being revealed, your responsibilities are now clear, and as much as you are trying with wishing, admiring, lying, courageous, you cannot overcome the deadlock that you have created yourself. I would like to remind you that, in the midst of a pandemic, our country is the only country that, instead of hiring doctors and health staff, hired a thousand and thirty special guards at the closed universities. I say this to understand a little what you have done in this country and how criminal your responsibilities are. Your wear, of course, is irreversible. You know that very well. And the reality - and clear now - is that you have led to a chaos of health, economy and education. You promised investments. Jump to the void. You promised order. You brought authoritarianism and repression. You promised security and immersed citizens in insecurity, uncertainty, anxiety and absolute dead end. You introduced yourself as excellent. Remember what we heard two years ago in this Chamber, from the channels and from the newspapers, that the government of the excellent ones is coming. And finally, excellent ones proved incompetent, useless, who, with "photographic" devices, try to take advantage of "left", to create a "part of" awards all this time and to self-deterate one Minister to the other every day on the channels for what is the strategy on the great theme of pandemic. Ladies and gentlemen, at the point where we are today and as much as you are trying to hide these criminal responsibilities and as much as it is trying - and I in vainly appreciate - a large portion of the media to defend you, I would like to remind you that we are in a country right now in Europe's worst position. That's where you got us. I will not mention BLOOMBERG and all the other elements. The media in our country do not deal with the real situation in hospitals every day, but what is the programme of vaccinations that will take place in the next few months and has set up a great trade of hope on the back of a people who see the deadlocks in front of it, which, of course, is built day after day. And yesterday we had the second paradox: we saw again with a steep, in fact, strong doses of self admiration presenting a report of ideas for the management of 32 billion from the European Recovery Fund with lame announcements and no mention of how a country arrived at this point today, in this deadlock, without any discussion and consultation on how it would go the next day. Honestly, it's a pity these difficult hours. I'm not going to take leverage, how the other money will come, if there's a banking system, what the strategies will be. What happened yesterday is a communication show. It is a communication show, which sincerely, especially in the field of the market, has brought a very negative climate from a government that is presented as a market government, investment, the economy and all of this. I come now - and I have the time - on the issues of the bill we are discussing today, in the big piece called sport. I talked about a mess that the government has caused on many fronts. You will allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to say that the government has also caused the issue of sport. Sport, I would like to remind you that it has downloaded rolls for a year now, with people of sport being plagued by unemployment and impoverishment all this time. And there are many, there are thousands. They're athletes, workers, coaches, gym owners, dance schools, martial arts, other specialties that I could mention, which for all of them the only answer from the Ministry of Sports is that we managed to make some money to support the clubs. What's the problem? We did not say that today in committee a few days ago. We call it, and we say it last May, that in particular in the area of sport, the government should draw up a plan, study the health protocols, be put forward to the committee so that we are not the only country in Europe to be the only country in Europe to be closed up by sport as much as anyone else, because that is the cruel reality. You have lost a long time, Minister, from May to September. I don't remember you if you were in Santorini when the Prime Minister was defeating the coronary and you believed as government that you're over with this. But you lost that critical time. And to leave your responsibilities, what you have done was to transfer responsibility to the Committee on Infectious Substances. You told us more or less that sport 'frozen', because the Committee on Infectious Affairs believes that the transmission is too great. I will repeat what I have said to you in committee: You have to, Minister, and you and your Secretary-General have information to go to committee and to prove that sport is not a problem, it is part of the solution and how it can actually proceed, as has been done in other countries. I could mention many examples. Of the five professional championships applying the same health protocol, I would like to remind you that it was only four out of five. And I would like to ask you one question: is the decision of the Committee on Infectiouss to stop Football League's championship was a decision of its own? So did the Committee on Infections know that from the twenty Football League groups, the twelve cannot go on with all eight of them? No, of course not. For these issues, were you in contact with the Committee of Infectiouss? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'd like some time, Mr. President. And I want to remind everyone - and here it is another paradox - that at the same time in other championships for months the coronary has been stuck and in others it has not been stuck! For example, in men's basketball, the coronary didn't fit, while in women's basketball the coroner was stuck! I would like to go to an issue which I also consider to be important, and it is the second thing I wanted to put to you, Mr President, and I expect to get some answers. It is clear that Mr Aygeakis did not have the time to deal with all of this, to draw up a plan, to see the real needs, because he followed the path that many fellow rapporteurs and representatives from other parties have put today. He dealt with how he will salt, how he'll manipulate, how he'll party the sports federations alone. That was his only concern. And, frankly, what he emitted, the Ministry, and all the publications around them were just that, the only goal. My Minister, with all due respect, I tell you it was your mistake. It was a mistake, which today you are paying because you failed to manipulate the sport movement in our country. And the answer and the curtain of this work fell yesterday. I would like to remind you that we have had, for the first time, Minister, demonstrations by athletes. Honestly, I tried to go back many years to see when the athletes got out on the street. The athletes went on the road to your own government. The third point I would like to raise and I think it is very important that the so-called 12 million, which the Minister had been calling for about eight months and said 'they are coming, coming, coming and strengthening amateur sport'. And I want to be clear here on something, which I consider to be very important. In fact, we have a government that's a lot of publicity and tells us that it's shared 25 billion on the occasion of the coronary pandemic. Minister, I ask you: if the government really gave up 25 billion, did you manage to get only 12 million for amateur sport? It is a shame if we believe that with these crumbs and what the area of amateur sport has gone through can stand up at this juncture. And I come now - and I close with this, Mr President, I know that I took about three minutes of my dentistry - on the subject of the famous and well-advertised joint ministerial decision, which the Minister is advertising and says that this KLA is the solution to the big issue of funding. It is clear here that your neoliberal policies, which are not here for so long and in the middle of a crisis in the field of education and health, could in no way be absent from the field of sport. And it is clear that you are leading to the full privatization of amateur sport through its alleged reinforcement of the betting revenues. Because we have accepted a very great criticism all this time and especially in the last few days that we are not making proposals, we are not productive, we do not contribute positively, I would like to remind you that especially in this part, as in other major issues of politics, and we have tabled proposals and whole plans. I would remind you, therefore, that, as SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, we have proposed, after the first lockdown, the creation of a single payroll fund in favour of amateur sport, with resources that will come, firstly, from the administrative fee on professional contracts of all categories of football, basketball and volleyball, secondly, from the allocation of a percentage of all the bet companies taxed in Greece and thirdly, from administrative fines for acts of violence in sports spaces and other infringements, as well as other sources of funding. The funds proposed by the fund would be as follows: 30% to increase annual regular grants to national sports federations, 50% to recognised amateur sports clubs and 20% to insurance athletes and medical and health care in cases of great need. All this with a well-defined system of criteria and transparency could be distributed with fair state resources to all clubs. Instead, you have promoted the signature of this FCH with purely economic logic, and that is exactly where our opposition is. The funds from the bet are now available to the anonymous sports companies, to those federations - members and to those large and single sports clubs that are able to attract sponsorships. In other words, promote the strengthening of the most powerful ones and turn the thousands of amateur unions - take care - of sponsors, advertising hunters, questioning even their non-profit character. So you're turning the back on these neighborhoods, the neighborhood, the village, which are the actual nurseries of the country's amateur sport, because you want to merchandise and privatize everything. So, unfortunately, that's your choice, that's your policy. I conclude by saying that - and many colleagues have said - sport is a matter which indeed should unite them, because we have a path and a story and as a country. But unfortunately, Mr Minister, you and your government are following a political battle. You tried to manipulate, you tried to work. We are calling on you today and we are telling you again that it is time for us all to see the great dead ends of sport together, leave them and leave all the bad practices that we have seen in recent times. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u114	Good. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Maria - Eleni Soukoulis - Vilialis, has the floor. With the completion of the speech by Mrs. Vilialis, we will enter the third cycle of speakers via Webex with Mr. Anastasios Publicsakis first. Here, Mrs. Villali, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u115	Thank you very much, Mr President. We have heard Mr Kegeroglu make serious complaints, which he expects - my own - to call him to report. Why doesn't he go alone in revelations and names, after he has evidence, as he says? I'll tell you why. Because it prefers the role of a common political syphant throwing mud into the fan. There's nothing left. I think it has a dentology, a tritology. He's a parliamentary representative. Here's Rhodes. Mr Moraite, moral practice lessons and irresponsible reports of criminal liability are not accepted by the party whose president speaks of victims and imprisoned smiling. I don't know why. If you talk about the media, when a minister is accountable, I think you should think about it better. You, with reason, are trying to exacerbate the spirits of Greek society in order to increase the percentages of your referendums. I believe that we need to continue and continue, especially to you, the Qualified Opposition, that the killing pandemic, ladies and gentlemen, is not offered for party specs or for irresponsible populism. I fully understand that for some of you it is the last opportunity to be able to fantasize resalto in the conquest of your covetous, perhaps even your very beloved authority. That's why you keep degrading instead of helping. It's all you know to do. But can I tell you something? The rhetoric "the second time will be very different from the first" and so on with the unscrupulous misgivings we have heard recently about the "black marketmen's and donors' orders" I think that they do not "dope" - to use an expression that is related to this bill - not even to citizens who belong to the narrow core of your own party and to the left base, ladies and gentlemen, with cries and even at the most difficult time when health personnel give battles to save lives. But, you know, for the country and its people your past - your past, fortunately - is a guide to your present and future and you cannot escape it. I want you to know, however, that your irresponsibility does not detract from our own attention from our institutional obligation to manage to overcome this difficult situation. It does not distract our attention from being able to protect any life that can be protected. We know that this is an unprecedented global health crisis that states are trying to deal with responsibleness in order to protect the supreme good of public health. At this difficult time, where health data changes daily, we try to use tools - all the tools - that science offers us. We know that social fatigue is great, but the vaccination and positive response of our society to it creates a great 'window' hope for a gradual return to normality. We see it in other countries, such as Israel. This will also happen in Greece, where vaccination is progressing rapidly. We are following the experts' recommendations and will take decisions that will lead us firmly to freedom, not listening to the sirens of a desperate opposition. We know, of course, that the voices of populism, when they see that the health situation is normal, will try in every way to exploit the economic consequences that have been caused in the Greek economy, without, of course, any creative proposal, simply by pointing out lost paradises, destructing any action for the dynamic recovery of the economy. But there the Greek society is well aware that in a crisis in which the economic cycle was so violently and steeply interrupted, the government stood side by business and workers so that they did not experience uncontrolled economic consequences. In this period, more than 38 billion euros were channelled into the Greek economy, proving that we maintain our credibility abroad, because we in the interior operate in a rational and prudent manner in the use and exploitation of the country's cash available. At the same time, however, we have not even stopped serving our reform policy aimed at changing the economic model of the country, because our strategic goal remains the same despite the health crisis, to create a strong Greece that will be leading in the future and will give citizens - and especially our young people - the level of living they deserve. And yes, we have the national plan, but also the financial resources, to achieve, in the short and long term, the necessary production adjustment of the country. And yes, this is a project of our own which'swipes' in our own economic conditions, but also takes account of international economic and social trends, with a new architecture that is not a fragmentary aim for the healing of current needs alone, but creates the strategic direction that they should serve, namely sustainable development. Because when you know where you want to go, then it is certain that you will get to where you want to eventually, aiming clearly to create new wealth after covering the chronic investment gap in the country, strengthening quality employment, and increasing the available income for citizens in contact with a digital and efficient state. In the next six years, we will mobilise the huge sum of EUR 57 billion of investment resources to achieve a turn in the 'green' economy, in the digital transition of the state - citizens and businesses - to strengthen social and social cohesion and, of course, to the regeneration of creative entrepreneurship, where the term 'quality' will be our comparative advantage. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the decade Greece will be a different country, in which pride will be the main feeling that will characterise our citizens, the pride that we have managed to respond to the call of times and to take the next step towards a future of prosperity and progress for all citizens, pride, because we will have managed to silence the sirens who want to turn us back into a dark past of delay, pride, because we will know that the future has not been spared us, but we have conquered it. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are called in the Greek Parliament's plenary to place ourselves on the bill on the harmonisation of our national legislation with the updated World Code of Antidopting. Before we move on, however, I would like to express my warmest congratulations to the Deputy Minister, Mr Aygeakis, and to those who worked for the return of Rali Acropolis to the calent of the current season. We in Corinthia know very well the importance of this international sporting event, especially for friends of motorisation and not just, of course, the enormous visibility it offers to the sites where it takes place. We had the pleasure of hosting Rallie in Loutraki, Corinthia and the Peloponnese with great pleasure and offering unique moments of racing activity and hospitality to viewers and groups. Minister, you are aware of the proposal that has been submitted to you and you are aware of our intention and our desire - I cannot say it from the Step forward of this House - to use our know-how, but also our experience in guaranteeing the proper organisation of the struggle. We fulfil the necessary conditions for its organisation and it is very important that both the relevant bodies and the local society are united in claiming the hospitality of Rali Acropolis. Going now to today's bill, I would like to stress the fact that the country where they were born and have to be genuinely represented, the Olympic ideals cannot take the lead in the face of the scourge of doping. It is a scourge that destroys the essence of sport and particularly creates in young children the distorting impression that in order to achieve racing at the highest level, they also need to use unfair means. Allow me to be able to know and confirm this personally, because I have been for a decade of championship in the track, in more pure, of course, years of the past. Of course, the scourge of doping is not solved with blessings and noble intentions, because it is a harsh reality in the field of sport and requires concrete actions. It is a reality that is evolving dynamically and rapidly, and that is why the answers we must give must be immediately in line with the new data so that they can be effective. This is what the World Code of Antidoping is doing, and it creates a single, well coordinated programme against doping at national and international level, by applying modern standards of tracking, deterring and preventing it. I will not dwell on exactly what we received, the Undersecretary analyzed it from within when he spoke earlier. After all, the pattern of SYRIZA's government practice is almost identical in all areas of public policy, fragmentation, procrastination and at the end and inefficiency. The anti-doping issue could not be an exception to those who, in words, build upper and lower, but their indifference is monumental. There, of course, is also our difference: we take responsibility and do not hide the problems 'underneath the carpet'. The new independent National Anti-Doping Agency with its adequate staff in an operational workplace, ensuring the funding and, of course, the administration of the Anti-Doping Laboratory in one of the top institutions of the country, in "Democritus", is tangible proof that we are doing with efficiency and speed in order to avoid this incredible shame, the country of the fight is being excluded from the struggles due to its non-compliance with international anti-doping standards. Because that is the stake, ladies and gentlemen, and let us not hide behind our finger. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will also take part in my dentistry, Mr President, thank you. Therefore, when we are congratulating WADA on our initiatives, it would be good to leave the tiny-party criticism out of the way and to help try to improve our performance in this area as well. But you will allow me to go a little further on a specific subject of the code which I consider to be of key importance. It is about the prevention of doping by means of educational practices that can be adopted, so that once again the capital is used to prevent it from being cured. WADA defines anti-doping training as awareness raising, information and communication of values and skills, in particular in the decision-making process to prevent intentional or inadvertent violation of anti-doping rules. In this context, the National Anti-Doping Agency designs, implements and monitors information, education and prevention programmes for non-doping sports in accordance with the requirements of Article 18.2 of the Code and international standard for education and supports the active participation of athletes and their support staff in such programmes. A characteristic is the example of the renewed Antidopting Education and Learning Platform of 2021, the 'ADEL by WADA', a platform aimed at e-learning for athletes and athletes, parents and coaches, but also for members of volunteers - which I consider to be too, very important - of sports councils. I say this because there are really too many sports organisations in our country who want to comply with the principles of good governance, but either they do not have the know-how or they do not have the resources to do so or both. I think there is also the key to further improving the functioning of our sport system, namely the adoption of a single friendly, dynamic and applied code of good governance that will promote good sporting practice, including, of course, new anti-doping policies. So we can conclude that while indeed the specific update of the code relates to the United Nations' sixteenth objective of sustainable development of peace, justice, justice and strong institutions, I think it extends to the fourth objective relating to quality education, which is at its heart, Minister, and the newly revised sport law. Let us not forget that we have signed the International Doping Convention on Sport in UNESCO, the basic principles of which are the core of every effort that protects sporting ideals and we could summarise it as follows: Sport must play an important role in protecting health, morals, cultural and natural education, as well as in promoting international understanding and peace. There is a constant need to encourage and coordinate international cooperation to eradicate doping in sport, as well as today there is more than ever the awareness that doping puts doping at risk than health and life, moral principles and educational values incorporated into the UNESCO International Charter of Physical Education and Sport and the Olympic Charter. [[At this point the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS, takes over the presidential office.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Greece is a unique symbol that inspires global sport and has the sacred obligation, particularly with regard to the young people and young people of our planet, to set an example of the active protection of the universal values that our culture empowers. That's our goal, that's our obligation. And today we are taking a very, very important step in this right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u116	Mr Ioannis Paschalides has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u117	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on today's bill concerns a matter of enormous importance, since doping runs counter to the ethical rules of both sport and medicine. Its spread looks like a common secret to an entire community that its revelation causes grief, but not a surprise. It's now the biggest nightmare in the world that perpetrates over every Olympiad. Medals have been removed, athletes have been excluded, great names from many countries have not finally participated in the struggles with suspicions of using banned substances to climb over their heads. So it goes without saying that doping is one of the most important issues for the sporting community and needs to be addressed immediately. Today, with this bill, the Greek legal class is moving towards alignment with the World Antidopting Code, which is the fundamental document on which the global doping programme is based, which harmonises the regulations on combating doping in sport in all sports and in all the countries of the world. The Code provides a framework for policies, rules and anti-doping regulations for sports organisations and public authorities. The main aim of the code is to protect the health of the athlete, as well as defending the fair struggle, the authenticity of the sport effort and the equality of the fighters. In particular, with regard to the appraised arrangements, I would like to refer to Article 3, according to which it is laid down that it is the National Anti-Doping Agency that bears the burden of proving that an infringement of an anti-doping rule has actually been committed, in addition to the rules of fair legal treatment, and that the means of proof are also specified. The level of evidence lies in whether the National Anti-Dopping Agency can demonstrate to a sufficient degree or at a level before the disciplinary committee the infringement of anti-dopting rules, taking into account the seriousness of the category assigned. The degree of evidence in all cases is greater than the mere probability, but less than the evidence beyond any doubt. I would also like to refer to Article 8, in which reference is made to the disciplinary procedure and the disciplinary bodies which are taking place after the indication of an anti-dumping rule and the right to a fair hearing and the procedural procedure for the progress of the trial is established. The ninth article provides for the automatic cancellation of all the performances and privileges of the offenders, while the following article provides for disciplinary penalties to offender athletes, such as the cancellation of effects to sport in which anti-doping rules are infringed and the exclusion due to the presence of use or attempted use or possession of a banned substance or a banned method. The 11th article identifies sanctions in groups, when an anti-dopting rule is found to be infringed by members - athletes of the team, while in the twelfth article the sanctions against sports federations or other sports bodies by athletes or other persons associated with the sport federation or the specific organisation or body are specified. Article 18 of the bill, which provides for the planning, implementation, evaluation and monitoring of the information, training and prevention programmes for sports without doping, in accordance with the requirements of the Code and international standard for education and supports the active participation of athletes and their support staff in such programmes. The role of education in dealing with the doping phenomenon is indeed essential. Young athletes must be shielded with the similar values and principles in order to close their ears in the "series" of large sponsorship contracts that have led to increased pressure on athletes and their surroundings and force them to resort to the use of banned substances. This commercialisation and the financial risks resulting from it have led to a multiplication of sports events and a reduction in the rest of the athletes, which also causes a reduction in the professional's sports career. It is also appropriate to mention the negative effects of the contracts signed between sports federations and their sponsors which provide for remuneration depending on the results or medals to be won by the athletes in large sports events. Unfortunately, doping exists, changes rapidly and lures those athletes who do not rely on their own powers, but seeks the temporary and immoral benefit. In closing my speech, I would like to congratulate the head of the Ministry of Sports on the quick reflexes that it displays in the real problems facing the sport sector. And this time I am referring to the immediate actions taken by Mr.Augias, in order to prevent our athletes from being excluded from all international sporting events due to the incomprehensibility of the previous government, by replacing the problematic National Anti-Doping Council with the establishment of the new independent National Anti-Doping Agency, as well as the restoration of the accreditation of the Anti-Doping Laboratory of Athens in cooperation with the Research Centre of "Democritus". Unfortunately, doping in the sense of using banned substances does not only alter the letter, but also the spirit of sport itself. We must do everything we can to ensure that sport stays clean. Promoting the health, justice and equality of athletes throughout the world can only be achieved through the enforcement of anti-doping rules in a universal and harmonised manner. That is why we have to support all of us in this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u118	Thank you. Mr Anastasios Prussakis has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u119	Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is an important attempt to harmonise our country with the global anti-doping community. Greek courtesy harmonizes with the new revised and updated Anti-Doping Code of the competent World Organization Anti-Doping, which was put into effect three months ago, with the ultimate aim that Greek sport will gradually lead to an improvement and modernisation orbit on the basis of healthy competition. The fight against scientific achievements in banned medicines and substances is lasting and of high intensity. Efficient treatment of doping that takes social proportions, poisoning not only healthy sport and careers for athletes, but also the country's own prestige in international sport. The oligopoly and the delays of the recurring government in terms of anti-doping control have made the risk that our athletes will be excluded from all international sports organisations. All the Anti-Doping World Organisation inspections for days SYRIZA revealed our country's horrifying compliance gap with the institutional standards of international standards, inheriting the current government with deeply problematic bodies. The Doping Control Laboratory was on the brink of the disaster and the National Anti-Doping Agency, known as the ESKAN, has been operating in a long time, having no understanding of international developments. With this legislative initiative, Greece, the country that gave birth to the Olympic ideal, replaces the gap and is consistent with the internationally accepted principles of the fight. Best practices are adopted in the scientific approach, method and verification of samples and anti-doping checks. The responsibilities and obligations of all involved persons and bodies regarding the anti-dumping rules, its prevention and prevention shall be specified in detail. The leadership of the Ministry of Sport has already ensured the replacement of the ESRB by the establishment of a modern and functional National Anti-Doping Agency, the so-called EECAN. Its complete function will take flesh and bone within the next period of time. The new organization will reposition our country in an instant position on the international sporting property. It is defined that the National Anti-Doping Agency plans, implements, evaluates and monitors information, education and prevention programmes for non-doping sports. Also, overcoming the bureaucratic obstacles that arise in order to regain the accreditation of the Athens Anti-Doping Lab at the next review of the Anti-Doping World Organisation is a fact. Ladies and gentlemen, I served with faith and devotion to sport in a family, taking out two children's athletes in Greek swimming with great success in domestic and international championships. At the same time, however, I served sport and defended him with a plan and a consistent professional attitude. It is particularly hoped that the multi-annual gap in education of athletes and sportsmen, namely federations, associations and unions, will be addressed, while developing a series of information activities on the values of healthy sport, a sport based on the values of integrity, transparency and fair play. It is important that these values play a leading role not only in federations, but also in amateur mass sport mainly, as expressed by associations, clubs and clubs. These are nurseries of future champions, who at a young and sensitive age start a very promising course in sport with supporters mainly parents who are often not sufficiently aware of the risks. As a father I know the joy of discrimination. I've experienced great moments of pride, but also anguish, because the road to medals and record records is demanding. Coachs, dictators, doctors, administrative and other factors involved in the preparation of athletes must have proven integrity, Minister, responsibility and complete compliance with the principles of equitable struggle and, above all, respect for human existence and health. The quality of the services they will offer to athletes should be ensured in order for parents to bring their children together without fear to sports spaces. To coaches, doctors, agents, dietists of my children, I always repeat this threefold: First, when they grow up to make me grandpa. Second, be good students and students. Thirdly, they are constantly athletic, and if with their sword they are discriminatory, they will be welcome. This was for me a healthy concept of sport and a healthy approach to the evolution and integration of an athlete. This bill also bears a social sign, as it provides for a financial reward for disabled sportsmen who are struggling together, as and wherever required by their race, and for the award of pay permits for athletes of the Paralympic Games, the Olympic Games and the Chess Olympiad in order to participate in the games. Minister, in Evros, the activities of associations, associations and organisations of disabled persons are important, and the results are so far sound. We are proud and enthusiastic about the global discrimination of the athletes of the liquid editor Dessert Michalentzakis and Dimitris Karapidis, as well as the great distinction between the other worthy athletes of the Sports Association of Disabled Persons with the name "Ktinos". We expect with the support of your Ministry to note even greater successes for Evros, for Thrace and for the country as a whole. Ladies and gentlemen, sport and rules are an incubator of standards and high ideals. Today the antidote is legislated on the forbidden drug. We regain the pioneering of the international anti-doping movement and especially the security that we had as a country during the 2004 Athens Olympic Games, establishing the bases of a sport that Greek families, Greeks and Greece need. With my family's experience and personal experience and for all the reasons I have mentioned, I am voting in favour of this law that I consider to be important. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u120	Thank you. We must now continue with Mr. Ioannis Burns from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I welcome and am amazed at the fact that the Deputy Minister of Sports has been introducing a legislative initiative in the form of a draft law in line with the procedure envisaged and not in the form of another 'photographic' and a late amendment to an unrelated bill, as has been used to us. It is therefore proposed to vote today that the harmonisation of Greek legislation with the revised Antidopting Code of the World Organisation of Antidopting, WADA. It is an effort that we started in SYRIZA, when after years of indifference from previous governments, we harmonized the country's legal environment, which should have been in line since 2012 and we managed to keep the Doping National Anti-Fraud Council, the ESKAN, in line with the international community. I would remind you that in 2018, following our actions, we ensured harmonisation with the United Nations International Convention on the Combating of Pharmaceutical Drug Addiction, with the establishment of a national platform, which was an obligation of the Greek state as early as 2013. I would also remind you that it was the SYRIZA government and the then political leadership of sport that succeeded in a series of initiatives to further the country's position on doping in full cooperation with WADA. We were the ones who decided and legislated with Law 4589/2019 the transfer of the workshop to the CSR “Democritus”, which then the New Democracy party voted against in Parliament. In addition, until the 2019 elections were announced, all preparatory actions had been taken to adopt the Joint Ministerial Decision and 2 million euros had been provided for the renewal of the workshop equipment for the first time since 2004. Nevertheless, while everything was ready, you succeeded with the recurring and delays that brought you to the signature of the OAS, your transformation into a final state, which we are all finally aware of what it means, to lose the Certification of the laboratory in the OAS. You know that October 2019's suffering has become a lesson to you. It is, of course, deeply hypocritical and atrocious to talk about fighting doping in sport, when it is not because of you, when it has been experiencing its deepest crisis for decades. At least it is provocative that your indifference to the fact that the long-term suspension of operation has brought the country's sports clubs, the majority of which have arrived, after the second suspension of all sporting activities, into an objectively impossibility of reopening when this is allowed. It is also provocative that your indifference to the fact that union revenues from subscriptions have been nullified while, on the contrary, their financial obligations and debts are accumulated. And not only do you care about them, but you're mocking them. You announced symbolic aid for the first wave of the pandemic in July and finally paid it in December, when the sports clubs are again closed for the second time. Basically, you have abandoned the pandemic for a year, sport and the people who make it up to them. Sports clubs, athletes of all ages, coaches and administrative staff are struggling for their future, experiencing a sloppy day-to-day life, due to your lack and monumental inability of Mitsotakis Government to manage anything crucial. The same situation, perhaps worse, also prevails in the gym industry, with hundreds of gymnasiums threatened with padlocks and thousands of trainers and staff being on the air because of your disastrous policy. However, as much indifference and inertia as the government showed through its Deputy Prime Minister in the immediate adoption of specific support measures for sport, so much interest and energy has demonstrated in the implementation of a plan to establish close party mechanisms in view of the archaeology of the national sports federations. Who can forget the photographic amendments to remove election blocks in order to promote the chosen ones? Who may forget to introduce an age limit and finalize it, apparently examining the birth certificates of unwanted persons for the design of the State Secretary? At this point, I would like to wish Vassilis Sebastian well and to be the winner of his battle, as he was in the EACH elections yesterday. Who can forget the obscene work of athletes for the supposedly self-defense when you knew that it was neither a revolution nor a self-evident one, but a plan for party enforcement in sport? Who can forget the equally vulgar work on behalf of the State Secretary for Terrible Complaints about abuses in sports spaces in order to implement his plan and try to unsuccessfully remove those administrations that were not fit for him? After the results of the antiquities in the national sports federations so far, the only one who wants to forget all this is the government of Mr Mitsotakis and its State Secretary for Sport. All that effort you've done is lost. It's been attempted. But the time spent on this attempt was valuable, decisive and will prove fatal for sports clubs and the amateur sport you abandoned. The sports community resisted and won. He turned his back on the self-indicated saviors and the late reformers, as the citizens will turn it into the next elections, whenever they do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u122	Before giving the floor to Mr Dimitris Biagi of the Change Movement, Mr Kegeroglou, as a parliamentary representative, has asked for the floor for a minute. Please, Mr Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u123	I want the floor for a minute, Mr President. First of all, since I heard Mr Burnus, I have to say that we have waited for the EEC-Austria credentials and did not come! And SYRIZA said he made it well too! The workshop lost its certification in 2019, because the necessary actions had not been taken all the time. So this whole situation didn't come from virginity. Some people have great responsibilities. However, I took the floor why the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative called me a 'common slander' at the time I was in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. I have been informed, and I would like to say to the House clearly to everyone that the entire sporting community is vain and is aware of the interventions made at party, government and other levels, promises and threats. I said from the Stepping of the House that from whatever start I shall report. I don't give people a favour, because there is protection of personal data. But if you dare, let the Secretary-General open the phones - not the staff, but the ministerial - and other offices that I can tell you, to show him. So the Minister knows who he got and what he got. I'm not saying the Minister threatened. He asked for help. How he asked for help is another matter! It is considered an intervention. But to go out and tell me a symptom about the actions of the government, the Prime Minister and the Minister, uh, that goes a lot! And for Ierapetra we know who took both to Agios Nikolaos and Sitia! I'm telling you three of them. The Minister knows who he got! You don't have to. But we said end to this! Can you stop them and deal with sport and politics? Call us on to tell you suggestions and opinions, even now. The next day needs a job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u124	Thank you. We're continuing with Mr. Biagi.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u125	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I think that we will all agree in this Chamber today that it would be very immature politically and useless in fact to make a sterile opposition to a bill on the harmonisation of Greek legislation with the World Anti-Dutch Code. The EEC is right to agree and agree with the World Antidopting Organization, otherwise we mean a healthy, undependent sport. However, I am taking action in today's bill to refer to the conditions that eventually lead our athletes to doping and to the use of addictive substances. It is no wonder in a society that is disoriented, with faded ideals, that a man should resort to immoral means in order to win, stand out from others. So whatever laws and control mechanisms and make, our greatest victory will be to inspire our young people in the right direction. Have we ever wondered what really leads our athletes to anabolics and substances? Have we investigated and studied what is the stimulus that leads our athletes to such behaviors? Should we make a radical and diverse contrasting attitude of life in which noble speech underpins any attempt to trade sport and athletes? Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, sport has played a leading social role and has primarily been an educational tool. It is nowadays systematically deceived by the timeless lack of a national sports strategy. Starting from the way the course of physical education is applied to our educational system, one can get an idea of the degradation our sport knows from the state. Gymnastic hours are reduced in the schedule and, of course, schooling facilities are mostly nonexistent. The greatest legacy that the Athens Olympic Games could leave us, the Olympic education in schools, was abolished. So what is hailed by the globe and is the brightest universal idea has been ostracized by education. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the circumstances show that perhaps the time has come for us to move forward with a deep and deep change in sport, during which our athletes, from their early training years, will be trained for fair play, its rules, to respect their opponents. It is now true that nowadays there is a serious distortion of all the terms and rules. Due to the need for excellent performance, for primacy, for Olympics, for champions, the terms of "fighting" and "family amule" have lost their true strength. This is certainly not only about sport. It is a widely social phenomenon now that has received particular worrying proportions. So it needs a new sports training, where young people will be oriented mainly for the game and not for the result. Sporters are also required, during their coaching stages, to be trained for a new agonist, with faith in commitment, at the ideals of sport, with a basic compass that in life we must know and win and lose and that every defeat can be the beginning of a great victory. "After where you can't, son, don't be ashamed if you played well and lost, be ashamed if you played bad and won," Kazantzakis said. Ladies and gentlemen, sport especially when accompanied by discrimination and medals beyond the delear, the glorious prestige it has, hides a lot of pressure and tension behind the curtain. The athletes live for victory and cups and they are where the real value, magic and the essence of sport is lost. It is our duty, therefore, to return to the ideals of the sport of Ancient Greece, to sport with vision, with moral values, focusing on self-improvement, participation, the victory that stems from a healthy struggle. Minister, we come from a people who inherited us heavily, to continue with his majesty. So far, we have been failing in the laurels of the past. The Olympic idea imposes on us and at the same time suggests how we should act. The region of the country must have a central place in the necessary reform of sport. An important part of the Olympic Games is located in the region, don't forget. The Peloponnese is the living continuation of the world heritage of Ancient Olympia. A Corfu compiled the Olympic Anthem and a philharmonic of my special homeland played him for the first time in the first Olympic Games of modern times. Our country's heart is beating on the periphery no matter how much the Athenian state forgets it. So pay her the credit she deserves. Corfu, the region from which I come is a typical example of the perception that prevails. Again, however, the human stubbornness alone succeeded in creating a tradition and significant presence in the track, gymnastics, swimming, handballing, rowing, basketballing, in the unknown to many of you cricket, with athletes who reached the Olympic distinction. Spyros Gianniotis and Maria Georgatos are typical examples. The performance of Corfiot athletes and sports in the games of the track contribute to the creation of a strong national team. It is no accident, ladies and gentlemen, that at the moment when we are talking Corfiot athletes and athletes have sixteen full-fledged records in the races of the track, having in the past shot down these more than twenty-five times. There has been admiration and greatness on the one hand, bitterness and disappointment on the other, for the lack of sports infrastructure and the behaviour of the state itself and central power in recent years. Athletes, coaches and clubs work hard and with love for sport, experiencing unacceptable conditions, false promises and deception by the state. The National Stadium of Corfu is an antiquated installation with many and chronological problems and serious deficiencies. What to report first? The total lack of enclosed space on an island with perhaps the highest rainfall index across Greece? In the closed racing area with the small old stands and the luxurious locker room, or is the coach with the construction failures that make it dangerous, or is the swimming pool with the dozens of problems often forced to stop its own operation? Many unions only earn one or two hours each week training in the facilities, perhaps none, by resorting to open unsuitable spaces to work out. But think about how many more successes we would celebrate and how much more positive standards we would have in better conditions! And if this is the situation in the centre of the island, imagine what the athletes in the region of our islands, that is, the region. Ladies and gentlemen, we as a Change Movement could not vote against such a bill. However, we are finally waiting for a real reform of sport and sports education in general. No one has so far dealt with the recording of the number of athletes per sport and those who would potentially like to be sported, so that with full imprint of needs the number and the kind of facilities that we need. So I urge you to something innovative. Draw out the needs and set up facilities so that all young people - but also the older ones, I would say - can find the sports roof that they need. Let us give young people the tools they need to stay away from abuses and other diversions, investing in an effort to activate and involve all ages with sport that would bring about a reduction in morbidity, but also the costs of the insurance funds and the National Health System by extension. Minister, enrich with the Ministry of Education the course of physical education in schools, push the federations towards awarding races to the region, create coach camps, exploiting the benefits of sport tourism, finally invest in the comparative advantages of the country, in climate, history, tradition, pure culture of sport. Ladies and gentlemen, we have no illusions that a code or legislation will combat this scourge of the place. We need political initiatives today. The conditions are mature now. Society is looking for it. In your hand it is now for you to listen to the juncture and turn it into sporting ideology, with respect to the athlete, with respect to the man and the painful daily effort he makes. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u126	Thank you. Let's go on with Mr. Zeishi Jekalaya from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u127	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is widely accepted but also self-evident that doping is one of the most serious issues affecting the sporting community. Financial scandals, bribes, game studs, violence, money laundering, use of drugs by coaches are some problems with a moral dimension that afflicts sport around the world over time. The World Code of Antidoping is the fundamental text on which the World Antidoping Programme is based. It is a harmonious map of politicians in all sports and in all countries. Its aim is to protect the right of athletes and athletes to participate in sport, without the use of pharmacopoeia, by ensuring harmonised, coordinated and effective programmes against doping, at national and international level, to identify, prevent and prevent doping. The revised Code entered into force on 1 January 2021. The proposed draft is judged to replace the oldest, obsolete Greek legislation of 2016 with its new revised regulations. The doping undoubtedly exists and lures with him those athletes who do not rely on their own powers, but seek the temporary and immoral benefit. The fight against doping is a major issue, and that is why it has been a priority for our Government, a priority that we have successfully achieved. The national anti-dopting legislation is now in line with the World Anti-Doping Code, the UNESCO International Convention against Pharmacology for Sport, ratified by Law 3516/2006, the international standards of the Anti-Dopong World Organisation and the binding guidelines of the World Anti-Dopting Organization. The necessary measures shall be adopted and the necessary procedures, mechanisms and systems against pharmacology shall be laid down in order to enable and enable their implementation. Therefore, given the urgent need to address the problem of doping and combat it and to prevent Greece from being isolated from the global sporting community, today Greek legislation is fully in line with WADA's new updated World Anti-Doping Code and other international conventions. First of all, given the lack of existing structures and the National Anti-Dumping Council, ETUCAN, which made it difficult to respond to the modern requirements of the Anti-Dopping World Programme, we set up an independent National Anti-Dumping Organisation in Doping, EECAN, an organisation that is financially and operationally self-sufficient. This national organisation is the national body designated as having the primary competence and responsibility for adopting, but also for implementing, and managing, the effective anti-doping policy in our country. Its purpose is to protect the health of the athlete, as well as the authenticity of the sporting effort and the equality of the fighters. Its mission is pure sport. Our fundamental concern is the institutional strengthening of his work. We have now guaranteed the functional independence of the EEC Treaty and the financial autonomy of the EEC. We approved the budget for the year 2021, amounting to 1.5 million euros. From the budget as a whole, the General Secretariat of Sports will pay as a regular grant of 1,166,000. A corresponding amount of funding will be entered in the regular budget each year. We have also secured spatial autonomy. In addition, the efforts of the ESRB to ensure full compliance with the Code have in particular brought significant results to the technical level of improvement in its activity, in a series of corrective actions identified during the inspection, non-compliances, such as the implementation of the non-gace control programme, which has been carried out for a number of years incompletely. Objectives: With the launch of the new EEC Treaty in about two months' time, it will be able to fully meet the requirements of the code. At the transitional stage, all the procedures for the functioning of the EEC would have been completed by May. Adequate staff: They will now be, in fact, implementing anti-doping rules, sampling address, management of the results of the checks and the management of the results at national level. Anti-doping Laboratory: Ensuring economic independence and recruitment capacity. It was one of WADA's main remarks. In July 2019, we implemented its administrative subdivision to one of the country's leading research institutes in the “Democritus”, in order to facilitate the coverage of its needs, primarily in personnel and equipment. We are in the process of regaining his accreditation, as he came, on 1-10-2019, again because of the frugality of the SYRIZA government. Ensure adequate support for the National Agency: A sufficient number of samples are required to ensure the proper functioning of the laboratory. With regard to the new equipment of the laboratory, the tender has already been awarded and the first bodies of EUR 1.2 million have already been purchased. Our priority is to regain accreditation for the Athens doping workshop, overcoming any institutional and bureaucratic obstacles, and to reopen. The government's willingness to fight doping and to ensure the proper functioning and independence of the competent authorities is said to be clear and clear. The restoration of the Greek anti-doping will be completed as soon as possible. Of course, the invisible enemy of COVID -19 has left his mark in sport as well, and there have been delays, which have not actually been predicted because of the existing pandemic. It is important that within the short period of our party's governance we have managed to reverse the unfavourable climate and the negative assessments of WADA inspections, restore order, regulate the majority of those who have been asked, be in complete compliance with the standards of the global organisation. The regulations evaluated are directly relevant to all sports actors, athletes, the National Organisation of Antidopting, the EESCAN, the Hellenic Olympic Committee, the Greek Paralympic Committee, all sports organisations and all citizens who are directly or indirectly involved in sport. The doping culture has become a sign placed on the highly competitive high-performance societies, where it is intended to succeed, money, glory, regardless of the price. The ideal objective should be to have clean sport. Its achievement, however, which has been difficult so far, also implies another primary component, above all it needs a change of attitude towards life, and in terms of sport, mainly its disconnection from economic or other benefits. Our conclusion is that sport must be fair. If some athletes make doping, while others don't, then the athlete who doesn't do is almost doomed to failure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u128	Mr. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u129	Yeah, I'm done. It is said that the best dopads or the best of the dopads win. An athlete should be pleased with what he does for his health and his spirit, without solely targeting glory, success, playing fair, clean, respecting teammates and opponents. The issue of sport is not the recognition and its consequences, a medal or the first, but participation and cooperation, noble speech and appreciation, and recognition of this effort by teammates, opponents, from the public. This is the real victory. This bill marks this change, the passage from the sick doping culture to purity, and it is the victory of the healthy spirit, a victory that all of us and every citizen expect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u130	We are now continuing with Mr Christos Giannoulis from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u131	Thank you very much. I have noticed - and I say this with a little relaxing tone - that Mr.Jakalayas from the beautiful Kastoria has chosen his home kitchen to connect to the teleconference and has brought me to mind the fact that sometimes in politics - it is not Mr.Jakalaya's concern - that as much as cooking does not come out of the recipe. Because I have been following from this morning an effort by the Deputy Minister, Mr Aygeakis, without being under the influence of the myth of today's Day, of April, trying to convince us that in an effort to archivisms of clubs and sports bodies there has been nothing, that there is a white page, which did not contain interventions, it did not contain candidacies, it was not supported by any political space, it was all really clear, crystallised and clear, as is happening in sport or in championship all these years. Anyone who wants to believe it. That's if he thinks so. Of course, I should also take you from my journalistic experience, Mr President, by speaking with people and colleagues from the sport sector that most of them were happy for the largest body that is the EGF, for the election of Mrs Sacorafa. However, they were upset that a similarly important Greek woman, a champion of the track, had to identify herself with an initiative - which Mr.Afgarians obviously knows as much as he wished not to admit - and "blackened" - in many introductory media - politically without worthy of it, because he has made us proud of the field of sport and happens to be from Thessaloniki. As far as hypocrisy is concerned, the government, the New Democracy, Mr. Aygeakis at the command of Mitsotakis has not been involved in the federations of the federations in recent years. I close this question with the assessment'so is it if he thinks so'. He also thought that he had not been withdrawn from the political scene, when Mr Mitsotakis and Mr Gerapitris had been emptyd on the subject of professional football. Where we did several weeks or months or even months we may see him return to the House. Either way, it's not personal. He said Mr. Jekalayas that our expectation and effort is to have clean sport. This is an objective which we must also broaden in political and parliamentary action, that is to say, to make things clear. But if sport is to be clean, not just at the level of substances, not only at the level of detection of active substances that destroy athletes simply to achieve a goal that has been sanctified, it has been excruciated and is really very attractive as a target, we must also be clear with our political decisions. As regards amateur sport, amateur football, I transfer you the anxiety of the Association of Macedonian Football Associations, the Volleyball site, etc. In a series of sports activities, the behaviour of the Greek Government Mitsotakis, but also of the Ministry of Sports, was more than disappointing. And what we are sincerely collecting from people who do not come from the area of demonized Officership, nor from the fabulous generos of triatism of political popular ranking, is frustration, anguish and bitterness about how disappointed you have been with promises, commitments or conditions that you promised and did not implement. I don't know if you couldn't, or if you didn't want to. However, aftertaste is certainly a result of mockery, Mr Aygeakis, and that is if you want to correct it to people and not just in response to the Civic Opposition. I'll close up so I don't misuse time. I really respect the many Greek champions, such as Voula Patoulidos, Kostas Kokodimos - and I tell you people who do not belong to the political area of SYRIZA -, Alexander Nikolaidis - on the side of SYRIZA - who were distinguished without being tempted "many money, great glory, but I will always live with a syringe or a pill on my headline" and we must honor these people. These people, these athletes, were also the cause of SYRIZA's 0% compliance rate with WADA, reached 95% when power was occupied with lies and humiliation by the Mitsotakis Government in the summer of 2019. I hope and hope that in the field of sport, amateur sport, individual championship, collective championship will be disproved by Olympiacos, with which we retired from Athens to Thessaloniki yesterday, which said that "we are the last priority in these decisions taken in total". As far as the anti-dopting effort is concerned, other colleagues have also been placed with absolute clarity. I would like to ask Mr Augias to stop all his political activities every day from being a continuous April. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u132	Thank you. We will continue with Mrs. Christina Alexopoulou from New Democracy and Athanasios Ljutas from New Democracy will follow. The rapporteurs will speak and the Minister will finish. Mrs Alexopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u133	Thank you very much, Mr President. I cannot comment on what Mr Giannoulis said, 'the power was taken up by lies'. None of these words helps our democracy, Mr Giannoulis, and it is a shame to be said by the Step of the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u134	I withdraw the 'conceived', my colleague. But power was guaranteed in lie.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u135	Please, Mr. Giannoulis. Mrs Alexopoulou, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u136	April today and the man of the make news is Alexis Tsipras. No one else, Mr. Giannoulis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u137	You've forgotten Adony.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u138	Mr. Giannoulis, we're on Webex. Please don't do that!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u139	Mr President, I respond when my name is invoked. If you don't protect me...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u140	Please! We're not in this process. Please close Mr. Giannoulis' microphone. Mrs. Alexopoulou, here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u141	As the majority rapporteur, Mr Baraliakos, described with great glazing, is the ancient Greek spirit what first elevated the sporting ideal and laid the basic principles of fair play, principles and values that World Sport continues to have today. It is Ancient Greece that raised the body and spirit and taught that training of both is the ideal one. Here were the greatest sporting struggles of antiquity and of the humanity of which the champions, the best of the best, returned to their cities as heroes and were immortal in poems and statues. But also our ancestors first pointed to the shame and condemnation of a plotted victory, based not on courage and morality, but on fraudulent tactics. Sports education has always been a key element in the education of the Greeks. In today's era, sport's ideals become more up-to-date than ever. Exercise of the body, but also of the mind, discipline, proper planning, achievement of goals, responsibility and measure are valuable values that sport can teach young children. Sadly, however, at a time when there is fairness, amoralism, the search for an easy solution and a minor effort and in which the free trade of sport prevails, values and ideals are often neglected and gigantic the problem of the consumption of illegal preparations and the application of unfair practices. And it is regrettable that we also have registered black pages of this kind in our own history, which have disappointed our people and made great athletes who were modelling for all of us for young people and joy. Luckily, they were very few. The phenomenon of doping has in recent decades taken worrying proportions, nowadays it has even been extended to amateur sport, even at local level. The Antidopting World Organization, as well as the competent sports authorities around the globe, are engaged in a constant struggle to tackle this global problem in sport. With the adoption and implementation of the World Code of Antidopting, the Agency defines the rules, coordinates actions and forms the programmes for the prevention and prevention of doping. The aim is to protect athletes from this great risk and exploitation, but also to defend the right of all people to participate in sport on equal terms, without banned substances. The last revision of the Code was unanimously adopted in 2019 at the World Conference on Doping and entered into force on 1 January 2021. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to congratulate the State Secretary and his colleagues, as well as the Ministry's officials, for their prompt response to the transposition of the revised code into national legislation. They thus demonstrate the government's readiness and practical interest in this important issue. Ladies and gentlemen, Greece, as the birthplace of classical sport, must be a pioneer in this battle. Unfortunately, however, this has been far from over the last few years. It is enough to mention the loss of accreditation of our country's own anti-doping laboratory to make the absolute lack of carelessness on the part of SYRIZA about this thorny problem apparent. We have had to go to another country to certify our own samples, to avoid the underestimating exclusion of our athletes and certain isolation from the global sports community. Fortunately, this government is aware of making rapid decisions and bringing results and is already moving towards direct interventions such as the Doping National Anti-Fraud Agency, a financially autonomous and functionally independent body capable of responding directly and effectively to the modern requirements of the Anti-Dopping World Programme, which was established in consultation and consultation with the World Organisation. The forthcoming start of the EEC Treaty, with the powers conferred on it by this bill, will again be able to harmonise Greek sport with all the provisions of the Antidopting Code. And, of course, absolute priority has been given to the reopening of the anti-doping workshop. The procedures are already in place so that the next review of the World Organisation takes place to regain its accreditation. Its administrative subordinate to a leading research institute, such as the "Democritus", and its stable funding, ensures human and logistical resources for its uninterrupted operation in the future. Greece is once again a good teammate, an equal team athlete. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill harmonises Greek legislation with global best practices in terms of doping scourge and ways of dealing with it. His technical analysis and by extension of the Antidopting Code by a civil engineer, like me, escapes the purposes of this speech. The regulations, moreover, have been explained very thoroughly and thoroughly by the Secretary-General, as well as by the rapporteur of the bill. So while respecting your time, what I would like to stress in closing is that the sad doping phenomenon is not far from us, it is not something passive or isolated. It is a daily danger to our athletes, professionals and amateurs, threatens our society and erods the values of sport. Beyond all of this, however, the tightening and observing of the rules to ensure sport law, protects our young people, young athletes and young athletes who, with their struggle, their discipline and their daily sacrifices, strive to go faster, higher, stronger and to make us proud. So we must be vigilant and vigilant to protect much more than striving for our own children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u142	Mr Liutas Athanasios has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u143	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are today discussing the harmonisation of the Greek legal order with the new, revised and updated Antidopting Code of the WADA World Organisation. In this code is based on the World Antidoping Programme. We are all aware of the criticality of its contents, given that doping has evolved into a scourge that endangers the health of athletes, as well as its structure and ideal of struggle as a whole. The World Programme of Anti-Dopogang sets the objective of protecting athletes and athletes, sets out the objective of protecting their right to participate in sport without the use of drugs, set the targets at national and international level, the identification, protection and prevention. The updated code shall specify the specific rules for the analysis of the samples, the disciplinary procedure and penalties for offenders. In addition, sanctions are provided for in groups where the breach of anti-doping rules and the relevant sanctions against sports federations, sports organisations or other persons associated with the sport federation or other sporting organisations are found. In addition, this draft law stipulates that the National Anti-Doping Agency plans, implements and evaluates education and prevention programmes in accordance with the Code and international standards for education. Ladies and gentlemen, from Greece, since the birth of the Olympic Games and the euphoria, all of us should always send the strong signal of our obligation to be pioneers in this race. This message has been translated into substantial acts over the days of New Democracy's governance. In particular, in a total contrast with the oligopoly found by the SYRIZA government on the issue of anti-doping, which caused the danger of our country being isolated from the global sports community, the New Democracy Government fought to solve the problems that had arisen. In particular, there have been drastic moves to solve the problem of the lack of existing structures, the Doping National Anti-Fraud Council. We planned and proceeded with the Doping Independent National Anti-Fraud Organisation. We moved towards the financial autonomy of this organization, the full function of which is expected in the near future. At the same time, the National Doping Management Board has been significantly improved for today, and the control programme is being implemented. At the same time, the actions of the Ministry also focus on the prevention and awareness of the Greek society on this particular and extremely important issue. In cooperation with the OPCWC, a prevention campaign takes place, which will take place in the next quarter, and together with the innovative "ZESH Athletika" programme and the National Anti-Doping Agency are also planned and organised for other discussions on the issue of raising awareness of the sport community. On the anti-doping workshop, actions were launched to restore its accreditation in collaboration with the Research Centre "Democritus". As recorded in the draft law on the committee responsible, due to SYRIZA's flawlessness the control laboratory has come into disrepute and has lost its accreditation. This practically meant that the samples of the checks would not bring the accredited analysis and this would lead to the exclusion of athletes from all international sports events at major and multifaceted costs. On this crucial issue, we have moved immediately and decisively, giving a solution through the signing of a contract with a third country. With these actions, we support the anti-doping workshop decisively and effectively and move towards the re-establishment of the specific accreditation we have lost. Ladies and gentlemen, the fight against doping is the top priority of our ministry and government, but also of national and international society. The involvement of people in sport is a decision and marks a life-saving attitude that creates very important benefits, whether we are talking about sport in general or about sport in particular. The decision to engage leads to beneficial benefits either individually or collectively. The offer of sport is well-known, it is very important if you consider the benefit of physical and mental health, the formation of a strong character, the strengthening of understanding and crisis, and the consolidation of faith in the importance of trying fair struggle. Through sport people come close and learn to operate in rules of respect and solidarity, while discrimination and intolerance are being dismantled. At the same time, at the level of championship, standards of power and endurance are being created for society as a whole, standards from which we all draw strength and of which discrimination creates awe and is moved. The moment of the national distinction between our Greek athletes, as well as their honest and great struggle in the fields and in the sports spaces in Greece, as well as in every other part of the earth, moved us, moved us and continues to make us proud, while it always works as a beacon of hope, optimism and power. All this, of course, is born and stems only from the context of the right sporting spirit, the noble speech and the observance of the rules. These can be tackled at their roots, both fanaticism and violence. A further crucial dimension of the treatment of doping is also identified here, of course, along with our duty to ensure the health of our athletes. This dimension is the shield of honesty and dignity as a source of power for all, as a source of dignity, conscious choice and faith in the righteous struggle. We must all welcome these actions that our State Secretary for Sport and Government have carried out and continue to take to this end and to assist all of us with all our forces. Help me by reckoning the athletes of all the ages that they see in sport their own life, as well as their families who have sacrificed everything for the dream of their children. Let us consider our children, who from young people feel like athletes win. They win friends, they win joy, they win strength and appetite. Ladies and gentlemen, by fighting doping and all the injustice in sport, let us see that we are defending life and helping to strengthen our own society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u144	Thank you. Is Mrs Bakadima going to take the floor? Oh, no. Mrs Asmakopoulou has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, Mr President. We mentioned in detail the bill and its partial articles, but the key to the fight against doping is the stricterisation of penalties. Unfortunately, the doping, like another Lernaian Hydra who, for every head that was cut, appeared more, strengthens and multiplys continuously and is among us. The main thing that needs to be changed is the concept of sport and championship. Simple exercise is known to promote health. However, the use of sports and the simultaneous use of banned substances does not only pose dangers, but may also lead to death. When the dominant model is success at all costs, then the sacrifice can be about the athlete himself, his health and his life. Doping cases are spreading a shadow over sport, and that is why we will contribute with all our forces to combat the use of banned substances with particular emphasis on prevention and appropriate information. We must also look at how much the pandemic has affected the controls involved. The fight against doping needs consistency and continuity. That's not good enough. The problems surrounding sport are becoming more and more acute in social consciousness, as the commercial corruption of sports is growing. The athlete has ceased to rise and the economic gain has emerged into a key incentive that has covered the main objective. The return of the ethos and the purpose of sport must start from the revision of incentives, objectives and objectives. Real importance is the struggle and not the possible victory. The theme of doping is big and complex. That is why we ask the question. What kind of sport do we want? It is time for the athlete to regain his lost athletic conscience and his lost confidence. For us in the Greek Solution first and foremost aim is pure sport and those who erode it must be punished exemplarily. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u146	Thank you. Mr. Synthrakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u147	You know, sometimes hypocrisy has its limits. And I say this because you spilled crocodile tears about the athletic ideal, about the application of the Antidopting Code, about the development of sport. What a hypocrisy! Well, aren't you the one who's been ruling forty-five years? I've been talking since the C.I.A. I mean, alternating to the government court. I will not go to ancient times, as you have gone, so to acquit the capitalist system, your parties and your policies. And you know why it's hypocrisy? Because your primary purpose is Caesar's wife to seem honest, just. This is a maximum mockery. Contained sport and the sporting product market are concepts intrinsically linked to each other. Isn't that what you're defending? Who have the upper hand in sport? Aren't international monopolies? Is it not 'COCA-COLA', is it not 'NIKE', is it not 'ADIDAS', is it not the pharmaceuticals that are at the top of the pyramid? Have you ever put them under restrictions? We are not saying to abolish them, as we are doing, but to limit this criminal activity, which is primarily aimed at maximising their profits and betting on life, on the health of athletes, millions, billions of billions of people around the world. The biggest problem with doping is that it is not general to sport, it is wider social scourge. It is the consciousness that seeks to make young people particularly aware that what stands out in this society is the record of non-normal people. It is the glory of athletes and the money she brings from sponsors, not only as an incentive, but as an ideal, as a value of life. Yeah, that's where we're from. This is capitalism, a "beautiful world morally made" to create mutated non-normal people to serve a historically outdated society, which the few who live from the stolen work of many at the expense of the health and life of many. So the danger of the case is the social toleration of tolerance or submissiveness to the system. Adopting control, therefore, wants your policy that strengthens and reproduces corruption, violence, gambling, enrichment, making use of an extremely social asset. Inverted wants the dopaedic structure you've built all these years. In all this, of course, some New Democracy Members were also found choosing the method of slandering the former socialist countries in order to destroy and acquit the system they serve, which produces and reproduce such phenomena. They talked about the documentary which was a practice in so-called socialist countries and especially in East Germany. I don't know, of course, you're obviously getting doggy from journalists, system apologists, channels, etc. Does Florence Griffith say anything to you, this female Lewis with the many Olympic medals and the huge profits she has brought to the multinationals who are intertwined with professional sport and finally sent her to death with steroids? Does the American Carl Lewis say anything to you that he confessed when he left the tracks that all American athletes are doomed? So is Canadian Ben Johnson. Marion Jones, who confessed to knowing about the anabolics she was taking to make a record and being tried by the U.S. court? Any hypocrisy. All the above athletes and many more, of course, who have nothing to do with socialist countries, represented powerful capitalist countries. A simple question can only be easily answered as to the alibi you are looking for as protectors of the lost price of dope sport and all of his fathers, who are by chance all big businessmen of the multinationals who manipulate athletes, the anabolic pharmaceuticals that produce etc. So we ask you, after the Westerners - International Olympic Committee, World Federation of Athletics and other - when the athletes from the socialist countries broke the record and took the medals to the Olympians, why did they not catch any dope at that time? Why is this mud being thrown? Because the only way to sow the confusion, the distortion of truth to justify the disgracefulness of the system you serve is that. All of these, that is, you, are seeking to cover up the objective event of the development of mass-lover sport in these countries with universal care of society in infrastructure, qualified human resources. Is it or isn't it? None of you are talking about it. It does not speak of organising sport in socialism that we have known, which was organised throughout society as an integral part of the free universal provision of social services in health. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance. Indeed, there was one point in these countries also distortions of competition with the capitalist countries, because mainly from one point to another, and then there were erroneous directions first and foremost at the level of the economy which, of course, also in all other sectors.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u148	Please, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u149	I'll be done. There were, therefore, such cases with two differences, however, ladies and gentlemen. The first difference was that these incidents were overwhelmingly individual and limited compared to the thousands of athletes who were distinguished and, secondly, - and most importantly - they cannot hide a reality like the one we lived in the former socialist countries.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u150	Mr. Constantopoulos of the Change Movement has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u151	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we are completing the debate on the draft law on the harmonisation of national legislation with the new Antidopting World Agency Code, in fact, as I said before in my prototype, in the denise of pandemic and, indeed, at a time when the whole world of sport is in protracted predicament. Ladies and gentlemen, I will particularly focus on a major change that the bill brings and is nothing more than the appearance of athletes and other people around sport in denouncing doping incidents and essentially breaking or breaking the taboo of fear. After all, intimidation, retaliation, threats to prevent such complaints are now punished in violation of the Criminal Code. Here, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is self-evident that the state should protect those in a fragile position. In fact, it's positive. And I shall refer to the application of the code relating to third parties other than athletes. So it is now clearly stated here that members of the management of sports federations, as well as trainers, are bound by doping rules. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the EEC will now be the body responsible for the implementation of the Antidopting Code from today, a legal person governed by private law, and, of course, supported by the General Secretariat of Sports and already provided, as I said before, with No 4049/2012. We have, of course, reached eight years later to issue a presidential decree replacing the National Doping Anti-Dumping Council, the ETUC, that is to say, with the EEC. The EEC as a new organization, responsible for the important work of doping on doping, must be essentially effective first of all. And here, Minister, we want you to go clearly how staffing is to be done - most importantly - if they have been recruited and in what procedures and, also, what we are interested in is clarity and transparency everywhere and, of course, its independence from every political and party commitment. In conclusion, we would say that the Committee on Transparency should be consulted, as well as the Parliament's Committee on Transparency and Education on the selection of the agency's administration. Besides, it does not really honor our country to see, as we have seen, that within the three laboratories that do not have certification - Thailand, India - are together with Thailand and India and Greece. That's really the worst. Finally, Minister, we expect you to inform us when WADA certification will be given again to the laboratory. To conclude, I think that the issue of doping requires cooperation, coordinated efforts, with a common objective, namely combating it, so that everyone, particularly in the new generation, in children through the school, can be seen as a record, as well as the negative effects of doping and the use of anabolics do not benefit the athlete and is a temporary victory without quality, without substance, because it is a constructed result. Finally, and of course the athlete is artificially taking a virtual ranking, and this must now, especially by young children and athletes, be fought. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u152	Thank you. We continue with Mrs. Kallipe Vetta from SYRIZA and complete the cycle of rapporteurs with Mr. Baraliakos. Then the minister closes. You have the floor, Mrs. Vetta.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u153	Mr President, in my prototype I have not exhausted my time. I'll ask for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u154	Mr President, will you give me the floor for two minutes, too?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u155	You cannot speak at the end because of the Rules of Procedure. I told you before. We'll have misunderstandings from other colleagues. I told you earlier. The Minister will speak and the process will be closed. I don't want any misunderstandings.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u156	Did you hear me, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u157	I heard you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u158	I ask for your tolerance beyond the three-minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u159	You'll have my tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u160	She spoke ten minutes on her first placement. Look at the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u161	You're absolutely right. Here, Mrs. Vetta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u162	Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister for another with smuggling and misunderstandings is falsifying and reversing reality. Once again - thirdly in the last few days - I will place myself specifically on situations that deliberately distort and, above all, on elections and unprecedented intervention. I guess, Mr. Ausgeakis, all sports and political reporters are fantastic for you and liars. Probably the more than twenty-five thousand reports, publications, articles, etc. internet search engines, which deal with the topic - type - "Austria intervention in electoral federations" lie and you're right. Once you return to Heraklion, ask your fellow candidate and New Democracy for explanations in the 2019 elections, Mr. Georgeglou, about the lies he allegedly said about unprecedented intervention in the last thirty-five years. And obviously ask him to repack it in public. For the in.gr post, which we tabled in the Minutes and which describes you as "soft, unrelated" and asks for your dismissal from the Ministry on the subject of your action in the elections, you will probably not ask for a redress. I understand the problem you're facing. For the pandemic, no mention once again of the fact that national championships were hermetically closed up beforehand, as opposed to all of Europe that were operating normally. Obviously, that is where you do not want to compare us with Europe. No mention of the fact that mass sport and local championships remain closed. No reference to the direct support of athletes and coaches, referees and judges. There were public statements about desperate conditions of people, screams of agony, protests of athletes, and you, as always, have been hearing and communication management. In essence, zero, a self-satisfactory observer of developments, like your principal at the Ministry of Culture, Ms. Mendoni, who was not interested in the people of culture at all. For the doping workshop, what did we learn today from the Minister? That's what's known. One and a half years later, it is still closed and action is being taken to open up in the future. We've also learned something else. He has made a head start on his colleagues saying that he no longer belongs to the State Secretary for Sports, so it means that another State Minister of the Government of New Democracy is to blame. Do you mean the Minister of Development, Mr. Georgiadis, to whom the investigation has been subject since July 2019? Please clarify to us, to have a picture of your responsibilities and your fellow solidarity. For the recovery fund, no mention today. Of course we will ask you a question, Minister, since you have not even been able to make one rejoice today to tell us what exactly you have proposed for sport. You will, of course, respond to us, I hope, through parliamentary scrutiny. For the EEC, the debate has been taking place since 2008. He even referred to the 2012 law of Law 4049 article 11 and completed his institutional recommendation with SYRIZA's Law. He harmonized Greek legislation on doping and included the new organisation in him. You are the Minister of Sports twenty months, Mr. Augenakis. Will you tell us the timeline? What exactly are you going to do? Will you be consistent with your public commitments so that the EEC can function as the mid-April ending the six-month transitional period, which you had adopted since October? Nothing has happened so far, only the move to the OECD offices. They haven't been recruited. Yesterday the General Secretariat has just made an invitation of interest for officials of the service for three years. There is no updated regulation and 1.2 million budgets have been announced, of course not enough. For the country's compliance index with the UNESCO Convention, do you raise the finger on us for the fact that the country from 65% of compliance with the International Convention against Doping for 2019 reached 95% in 2017? Are you accusing us of the fact that we were going to the meetings ready and equipped? Are you accusing us that the country has had better indicators and has approached 100% of charges such as research and funding? Are you accusing us of the fact, as Mr Marku said, that in 2011 and 2013 our country had zero records in the international doping convention? This is your interest and you have the courage to blame us for trying to face your ruins in sport as well. And one last thing for Mr. Black. The Secretary-General of your Ministry in 2019 had the political openness to vote for the transfer of the workshop to the “Democritus” that we proposed with the bill of government of SYRIZA. The New Democracy did not vote for it, while taking the area of research from education, we had in summer and autumn 2019 significant delays that led to the lifting of the certification in October 2019. I'm coming back. Can you ask him - unfortunately, he did not come with you today nor to the committee, although he is primarily aware of the issue - of the unprecedented situation of 2008 to 2010, the strike of the samplers, the lifting of certification, the practical and explicit disapproval by WADA? You will learn many and interesting things about the role of many in the field, political executives and scientists. We expect you to answer our questions directly, without stressing the case and, of course, of course. Ladies and gentlemen, sport for us is an individual but social need, a need for recreation, evacuation, coexistence, established confrontation and recognition of effort and outcome, a life supply. We have nothing to do with figures, great private interests, "KOROVOS" projects for the doping of athletes in the country. In this direction, with a clear distinction between the two camps, we support sport for all, amateur sport and at the same time thoroughly regulate the operating conditions of professional sport. Because in sport we're not all the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u163	The rapporteur, Mr Baraliacos, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u164	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened carefully to the views of the special speakers of the opposition, who, unfortunately, have chosen to focus on issues regardless of the vote today on a major issue for national sport. With this attitude they are consciously or unaware of the enormous importance of anti-doping control over the present and future of sport. In the debate on such an important issue that I believe we all agree, namely the fight against doping, I did not notice any creative contributions during the debate on the part of the Vice-Population by tabling concrete proposals and by emphasizing the good fight, to protect our athletes and especially young children from banned substances, to communicate the consequences of doping to the physical health and psychology of the athlete. With populism, with split speech, but also with benefits - we heard it today, SYRIZA reopened his drawer and gave off money - we are not opposition today. If we want the political system to regain credibility, we must be honest. Today, Mr President, it would be a good thing if colleagues in the Officerate were more careful in their positions, especially in their references to the years of SYRIZA - ANEL governance. However, since they have entered this process, it would be honorable to assume their responsibilities as well. It would be useful, Mrs and gentlemen of SYRIZA, to hear today when she came and why the accreditation of our country's anti-doping laboratories and who are ultimately responsible for it. We didn't hear that. Who is responsible for this? The Government which took over in July 2019 or the previous government, which was absent from the whole process, so that the laboratory will operate properly? It is a global blow to our country and deeply hurts its prestige. When did that happen, ladies and gentlemen? They took place a year before the scheduled Olympic Games of 2020. So, what right did you put our athletes at risk in the Olympic Games? Ladies and gentlemen, you are aware of what you have done and that is why you throw the ball on the stands and you have come here today to move our fingers. Even for where the samples are sent today you criticised. And that's what hurt you. Unfortunately, the previous government inherited us with all this problematic situation, which we have not only corrected in a very short time, but managed to reach the international standards and compliance standards set by WADA. And the Opposition cannot hide its obvious embarrassment and distress over the fact that the New Democracy Government receives credit, while they themselves received several letters with observations on its oligarchies and obstructions. Ladies and gentlemen, the issue of anti-doping control is complex and requires constant vigilance. We have taken many important steps and remain committed to the full implementation of our programme statements since we had set ourselves high in our priorities hierarchy to prevent and combat banned substances. And in this battle, no one needs to be left behind. The message we are emitted today by the vote of the bill by the overwhelming majority of the parliamentary forces must not be clouded by a cheap opposition that concerns other institutionally irrelevants with today's debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u165	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u166	Thank you very much. I shall begin, Mr President, by saying that we do not accept the amendments tabled by colleagues. And you will allow me to give information - because it was interesting, as the debate has finally seemed - and it has kept more than some colleagues originally calculated - because the reality disproves all these fine things that the Vice-Presidents - of the Officerial Representation - and all that I shall say to you, of course, I shall say to you in writing, because they are of their own value and are not questioned. They are documents of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. On 5 September 2018, former Deputy Minister Vassiliadis wrote to WADA: “The workshop will be transferred to “Democritus”. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sports, Mr Eleftherios Augias, presents for the minutes the abovementioned letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] ‘At the beginning of November, the relevant arrangement will have been voted on,’ continues, with regard to the renewal of the equipment, in the letter that the competitive process will be completed by the end of 2018. On 4 October, WADA, by letter to Mr Vassiliadis, asked for the following information, which I will also submit in the Minutes: Asks until 20 November 2018 - to keep the dates - to have information on the legislative provision for the transfer of the laboratory and, secondly, by the end of October 2018 to have information on the new staff of the laboratory - qualification, employment status - and thirdly, to have been sent a detailed report on the laboratory equipment by the end of October 2018. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sports, Mr Eleftherios Augias, presents for the minutes the abovementioned letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] On 9 October 2018, however, WADA returns by a new letter. This time it reminds of the communication of July 2018 and asks the laboratory to change its equipment, blood analyses, recalling that the procedures - ordering equipment - must be completed by 31 October 2018. I put this in the Minutes too. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sports, Mr Eleftherios Augias, presents for the minutes the abovementioned letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] On the 31st of October again, WADA hits the alarm over the analysis and storage of laboratory samples. On 15 November 2018 Mr Vassiliadis responds to WADA and tells them what? Firstly, I submit the WADA letter to Mr Vassiliou, so that we do not lose the order. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sports, Mr Eleftherios Augias, presents for the minutes the abovementioned letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We also have Mr Vassiliou's letter to the WADA. And what does it say? It says that the legislative provision - and you understand why you are being exposed, because here the writings are speaking, there is no one else speaking, there is evidence - of the transfer of the 'Public CSCE' laboratory to the CSCE will be voted on directly and secondly, that for the renewal of the equipment the competitive process will be initiated once the provision is voted on. I'm tabling this in the Minutes and that. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sports, Mr Eleftherios Augias, presents for the minutes the abovementioned letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] However, we did not stop here. WADA shall return on 19 March 2019 by letter and shall indicate that the corrective actions taken are ineffective and unsatisfactory. WADA says that. I put it in the Minutes for whoever's interested. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sports, Mr Eleftherios Augias, presents for the minutes the abovementioned letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In fact, it says that there is no action plan to address the problems that remain and, of course, there is no timetable at all. And the letter that I have just tabled goes on to say: 'We are giving you a last chance to give you a solution to the issues that we have raised to you'. And asks that this letter has access to funding by 1 June 2019, that the laboratory has been transferred to the “Democritus” CSR until 1 April 2019, that it has a detailed action plan and that it has been submitted by 1 June 2019 and that all the actions for the laboratory have been completed by 31 December 2019. And the letter is closed - please, it would be very pleasant to receive it, because everything I am saying to you is proved - 'Impossible to do these will lead to disciplinary action to lift the laboratory's accreditation'. On the contrary, we say that within a quarter of 2021 we have carried out 12 real controls outside the matches, while in the entire three-year period 2016-2018 they barely exceeded the two-year downloads, while - I repeat - I said this in my prototype - bloodshed are carried out, which they probably did not understand in the previous administration of the EASKAN that Mr Vassilidis had appointed, and this is one of the necessary ones. The figures, but most importantly the documents speak for themselves. With regard to the staff I have been asking, I have answered - I think - that is enough. Please, if you look at my prototype, I give all the answers that they needed on these issues. However, I also welcome the fact that the majority of the political forces are right now, despite the disagreement we have on some issues - individual issues - I feel that it supports, in principle, the current draft law, namely the regulation, on the one hand, and the effort that this government has made with absolute seriousness on anti-doping issues. We must strengthen the strength that the government and the Ministry are currently giving in the fight against drug addiction, and of course we do not solve all the problems. We are just taking a big and powerful step, which should have been done many years ago. I have received too many questions on the subject, in which, at least, I wish to answer them. The issue of the doping incidents is also linked to the 'Hilona'. I would remind you that HILONAS is the model that was first implemented last year, which, with measurable figures, distributed state funding to all sports federations and with absolute transparency. In other words, the Minister does not hold him in his drawer rather than in his own words the sympathy or controversy of the federation's president, automatically approves less or more. No, ladies and gentlemen! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We have put forward a model which we have consulted with the OSCE and the Commission officials, but of course also with the representatives of the Greek sports federations, and then we have come up with comments - very appropriately, I must say - in an extremely functional one, which is linked, among other things, to doping issues. In other words, if a federation in some sports has appeared doping incidents, it goes without saying that it has less funding, and there is also a number of other elements, which, of course, are now linked to the updated model that we are committed to announce after the incidents of sexual harassment and any other form of harassment detected. Another factor that will be added is also, and issues of maladministration or mismanagement, which have been a lot of talk about in recent years since the publication of a personal history of Sofia Bekaterou and a series of other athletes and sports. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, we have given EUR 9 million. We have just voted yesterday on a provision with an amendment we have tabled for another 4 to finance the clubs that were registered and checked or have provided additional information requested from the relevant departments and which are legally and in writing in the Ministry of Sport's sports register. That was the first phase. However, my dear colleague, Mr Moraite, I do not think that it is "flavoured" what we have done just a few days ago, namely to satisfy a constant request from the sports family, which did not do either the PASOK - which you were before - nor the SYRIZA you are today. So what did we do? We have worked with the Ministry of Finance and have now taxed the profits of betting companies in the clearest, most transparent way. Then, with a provision that we passed in November and with a KLA that we signed with the Ministry of Finance just a few weeks ago, two weeks ago, we already gave a part to professional football teams, basketball and volleyball teams and with absolute transparency, as foreseen within the FYROM, there will be an amount in advance due to the difficulties. This amount will be paid every year with absolute transparency and will, of course, be reduced according to the revenues that the Ministry of Finance will have from the taxation of legitimate betting companies. You know, it was a solid request from the sports community, and we satisfied it. And I do not think it is 'flying'. If you want, we will be happy to talk closely, so that I can inform you in detail about this issue and you will see how to revise this view. And the sporting family itself realized that the sums that eventually ended up in some professional groups and will end up in a number of amateur groups that are registered and are legal and active unions are an aid they never had. Moreover, I would ask you not to underestimate the provision that was once again a constant request and which you did not make in the previous period, nor in the previous period. But we did. I am referring to the tax incentives that we have given. There is now the possibility for every club that wishes to have a donor or seeks to have tax incentives to increase the costs of its association. In other words, there is the link between sport and the free market. We ideologically are quite clear. There's no distance, there's no prejudice. Yes, as a state, we will strengthen sport and all the sports structure. However, we will also give incentives to cooperate more closely between the sporting sector and, of course, the free market. I think you are wrong with the reports on closed sport, that we have shown indifference and everything. I want to tell you, the Ministry of Sports has a uniqueness compared to all the other ministries. We have set up the Sanctions Committee in which doctors from the first pandemic have been volunteering since the first phase of the closure. In fact, we have two, three persons who are also in the Committee on Infectious Substances. I would like to inform you that they have done an incredible job and I thank them publicly for that because they keep updating the protocols. We have managed too many and critical situations with absolute scientific competence, with great seriousness and responsibility. Before any request from us to the Committee on Infectious Diseases, has been automatically examined, updated and checked, if you wish, by our colleagues in the Sanitary Scientific Committee. This also helped us to implement the protocols which are extremely demanding, especially after the last decision about three weeks ago, and then pressure from us in the Committee on Infectious Substances. Furthermore, I would like to say that Mr Bach, who was at the Prime Minister's Grand Monster, thanked the Greek Prime Minister for not being indifferent to either the first or the second lockdown. Instead, we had predicted and especially the athletes of the Olympic and Paralympic teams were served by all our sports facilities. And slowly, gradually, this also happened with other athletes of other categories of many sports. Of course, here we must also take into account the risks to workers, players and doctors and their escorts. For this reason, there are protocols that have been implemented with absolute care, with the exception of small exceptions. It is no coincidence that organised sport has few cases of coronary transmission. I would also like to give an answer to the Qatar question, because we are working with Qatar. First of all, because in Qatar the prices they gave us, the economic offer is more profitable than when the laboratory was operating in the OAS. We're being charged with less than the OECD charge. Of course, that's not just the reason. There is one more reason, and that is that the scientific director in Qatar is the number "1" of a Greek scientist who was in OASA and when he closed down, he left and looked for the solution to his problem, to see anyway where he will be employed and finally found in Qatar. This is Mr. Georgakopoulos, an excellent scientist. It is the number "2", that is, together with a large number of Greek executives, scientists who work in Qatar and we need much less than when they were at the OAS. However, I would add here that we are not only working with Qatar, but also with Cologne for blood samples. However, sports passport services are provided by the Austrian laboratory. In other words, we are doing everything we can and we are making use of all the possibilities until the time comes to reopen - we hope soon - the certified 'Democritus' Lab. Of course the "Democritus", the Laboratory, not us, but the Ministry of Development and political leader is Mr. Georgiadis. However, Mr Dimas has the first degree of responsibility with which we cooperate perfectly and have signed together the Memorandum of Cooperation, through which our sums and obligations towards Dimocritus have emerged, as I mentioned just now. So, of course, we are also assisting, but to be clear, the first degree of responsibility lies with the Ministry of Development and his responsible State Secretary is Mr Dimas, with whom I wish to say that we are working together, so that we do not think that we have a single issue among ourselves. Finally, I am overcoming the problems and everything Mr Kegeroglu said, the good friend and colleague from Heraklion, but the truth is that he stands out for the way he works and tries to create impressions and look at him. At this time, the sports family knows very well that an election process has been completed to highlight new administrations in all the federations of our country - except for the few who have temporary administrations from the Greek courts - with absolute transparency, and most importantly, we have a great, high renovation rate. In the next few days, I will inform you, in the next few days, of any elements, i.e. the renewal rate, the number of women participation in the administrations, but also of how many administrations are new, the net 'oxygen' that has entered the administrative body of the sports federations and what they have remained for themselves. But, from there on, when the election process ends, the polls are closed and it works out, we are quite clear that we are obliged, which we are happy to do, to work with even those with whom we may have politically disagreed. But the space of sport does not raise political disagreement. That is why it is our duty, which I clearly state at the moment in the plenary, to work with everyone, and how much more so when this is an Olympic year and there are few months left until our Olympic team goes to Tokyo. With regard to what Mr Constantopoulos asked, namely when the laboratory's certification will come, I would like to tell you that at the moment I do not have a full picture. I know that the procedures I mentioned a moment ago for the absorption of EUR 1.2 million have been carried out for the equipment planned and absorbed by 1.2 million. There were eight hundred grand left, too. So I think we are on an extremely good road. Nevertheless, where it is called and where the Ministry of Culture can help, it is clear that it will do so because it is a national interest and not a case of one or other Minister. It is a national interest to have a laboratory, to function properly and, of course, to have the certification and to stop the problems that we had encountered in the previous period. And one final word on the issue of UNESCO and this report, because Mrs Vetta was mentioned. At the beginning, I mentioned and tabled WADA documents, the dialogue that the Greek Minister, Mr Vassiliadis, had with the President of WADA, in other words the most competent one. I will repeat once again that we must not create false impressions. The UNESCO report, which you referred to, is a questionnaire. It has nothing to do with the implementation of obligations, as these are clearly mentioned in the correspondence which I have tabled to you. And I come to another detail that escapes you, and I'm sure you mentioned it by your mistake. It has nothing to do with the new organisation we are discussing today with the law of SYRIZA, L.4373/2016. Please see him better, because you're wrong. I know you're not doing this from a bad intention, but you're not well informed either. We are making it clear that we will accept any proposal, any aid and any contribution to help Greek sport, in order to help this great effort that has been started from a long time ago with delays and problems, but which is currently no longer slowing down. We have already reached the paradox of one of the Olympic Games, and we have a moral obligation to the sports family to do what is humanly possible so that soon the EECAN will function as it should. This means in April that we have also tabled our last report on WADA to all of us to be'masters', as we must, and to correct any other loose ends, because the problems have been accumulated for over ten years. The last five years, four years, were truly unbelievable, which is evidenced by the documents. So there is nothing left but to raise our sleeves and work in conjunction with our officials, whom I thank very much, in order to bring results and to have absolutely no problem with this matter. And of course I thank all the rapporteurs, all the political wings, including those who disagreed with us on individual issues and not on the subject of the regulation. I think today's debate was useful. There have been many and interesting things that make us stronger, more careful and certainly faster. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u167	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u168	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u169	Mr Moraite, you have asked for the floor on staff. There's no other procedure. Tell me what the personal matter is.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u170	He falsified something that the Minister said and I want to explain.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u171	Did he refer to you? Tell us what the staff are to understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u172	It was said to belong to the PASOK area...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u173	I don't have a problem like that, Mr. Constantopoulos. You're wrong. That's not my problem. To make it clear, my problem is that I understand the Minister's inability to speak for more than 40 minutes today...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u174	What's the personal matter?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u175	I'm going to the staff, Mr. President. ...and refer to the 60% of the time that he talked about what the Opposition did and not...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u176	No, Mr. Moraite, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u177	I conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u178	Tell me what the staff is.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u179	So he referred to the KHS which he signed a few days ago and mentioned my name, that I spoke about "flying". Our disagreement, Minister, is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u180	It's not personal. Mr. Moraite, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u181	Please, Mr. President. It's a law that was passed...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u182	It's not personal. Look, I'd love to give you the floor, but you're not allowed because after...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u183	When someone's falsifying what a man says, can't he answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u184	No, it's not personal. It would be personal on other issues. Look, I cannot give the floor to the Minister after the completion of the procedure unless this is a personal matter. I think it's not personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u185	He falsified something I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u186	Please. Unfortunately, I cannot assess that this is a personal matter and you know it very well. The process is stopping here. You said what you said. We have to move on. It's wrong. Please very much. There's going to be a rival, and it's wrong. You understand that, too. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u187	The debate on the principle and articles of the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: "The necessary arrangements for the harmonisation of Greek legislation with the revised, with effect from 1 January 2021, the Anti-Donoping Code of the World Anti-Donoping Organization". We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. I would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, twenty-three articles, the office article, and the entire bill. Make sure you have passed all the articles as well as the nominee article and the entire bill. After your vote has been registered, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u188	Once you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u189	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u190	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: "The necessary arrangements for the harmonisation of Greek legislation with the revised, with effect from 1.1.2021, the Antidopting Code of the World Organisation of Antidopting" was accepted by a majority, in a single debate on the principle of Articles and of the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u191	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to ratify the Minutes of today's sitting on the whole of this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u192	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. The Minutes of 14, 15, 16, 19th, 20th, 21st, 22nd, 23rd, 24th, 26th morning and afternoon, 29 and 30 October 2020, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 5th, 6th, 9th, 11th, 12th and afternoon, 13th, 16th, 17th, 18th, 20th, 23th, 25th, 26th, 27 and 30 November 2020, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 7th, 9th, 10th and 11th mornings of December 2020 have been distributed and the House is asking whether it validates them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u193	The minutes of 14, 15, 16, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 26 morning and afternoon, 29 and 30 October 2020, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 5th, 6th, 9th, 11th, 12th morning and afternoon, 13th, 16th, 17th, 18th, 20th, 23rd, 25th, 26th, 27 and 30 November 2020, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 7th, 9th, 10th and 11th morning December 2020 were therefore validated. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-01-S1-commons.u194	With the agreement of the House at 17.03 p.m. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, April 2, 2021, at 11.00 p.m., on the subject of Parliament's work, parliamentary scrutiny: a pre-dated debate, in accordance with Rule 143 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, at the initiative of the Chairman of the Group of the Parliamentary Party of European Socialists, Mr Fotini (Phot) Genuines at the level of the Heads of Party, on the need for an effective national plan to address the pandemic and its effects on the economy.
