ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-18-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are now entering the agenda for the sitting. LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the debate and vote on the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Structuring the State Budget for the financial year 2022’. Yesterday we had all spoken to Members. Of the two hundred three registered, the two hundred were spoken, because three were withdrawn, eighteen general rapporteurs and special speakers. They have therefore spoken two hundred eighteen colleagues from all parties. As you recall, with a decision by the President of Parliament, although the Conference of Presidents had not taken this decision, today we will begin, so that it is not just the political leaders - in introductory words - with the word'secondary' of the parliamentary representatives. I say in introductory words, because seeing the speaking times of the Parliamentary representatives have also taken their secondary and tertiary words. I see the times.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-18-S1-commons.u2	Mr President, I spoke for fourteen minutes, while the other twenty.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-18-S1-commons.u3	No, Mr. Chakaloto, that's what I mean by myself, per party with the interventions. In other words, for example, you as SYRIZA have spoken with the interventions of all the parliamentary representatives for forty-four minutes and eighty-four seconds, but I am just saying it statistically, anyway you will speak. So we don't have time under the Rules of Procedure. There will be seven minutes for each Parliamentary representative with a slight tolerance and we will start in reverse. Mr. Claus Gregoriadis is therefore called at Step. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-18-S1-commons.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President, for making me the honour of giving me the floor and first in a row. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, as we are in the thirteenth - living to have! - Memorandum of brutal time to go through our country, this budget prank, which, over ten years ago, none of the budgets that have been deposited - drawn up and submitted - in Parliament and have been approved - has taken place, as one month later, six months later, a year later, Mrs Merkel calls three years later, she calls you "New Mr Merkel" now who will take over and says "do it because I will cut your feet, do this because I will shut you down and die of economic suffocation in five minutes, do this because I will throw you out of the European Union!" As we were subjected to, as we have codified and said ten years as a country that we have surrendered, we have lost our national sovereignty - I have been telling you kindly for a long time as Mera25, not as a person, Clonah - this unconditional tradition, this unconditionally conspiracy is ultimately an absolute loss of our national sovereignty. Therefore, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, here a prank, a moral farce, is being played every year. It's like Christmas and Easter and we do specific things, we paint red eggs in Easter, we decorate the tree on Christmas, we eat turkey, if we're affected by Western customs, so we come to this House to vote for a desert - Mr. Minister, I'm sorry to say it - budget, which has no chance of being implemented, because anyway it's pressing on ELSTAT's elements, which are elements of surrealistics, they have nothing to do with reality. For example, Mr President, according to ELSTAT's figures inflation has been lower since 2008 and the purchasing power of the average Greek is less than in 2008. These are elements of ELSTAT this year, which is not a Greek statistical agency, it is a Bitchelian. It belongs to Brussels, too, with popular sovereignty. So we are telling you that in 2008 the working class of Greece - and working class - I do not only mean workers who are in factories, I mean all the workers - had an income of about EUR 112 billion. The employees today have reached 75 billion euros. Do you understand what a loss of income this difference is from 112 to 75? It's overwhelming and no more numbers are needed. I therefore propose, Mr President, that the ninety-seven Members of the Greek Parliament who do not have the luck of being actors - to remain the dear Skouriak who I see below, Mrs Baguea and my master, who are the actors - should resign and be recruited by professional actors from now on. We should get regular actresses to play better, because this thing isn't seen. Of all the things that all the Memorandums say are supposed to scare you, one thing really terrorize you, and that has a name, one word: democracy. She's afraid, just like the devil shivering the smell from the ink. That is why you are doing everything, everything, coordinates, to alter the power of the conquered countries that have become protectors and colonies, parties committed to oligarchy, so that there is no longer any political and democratic dimension in decision-making. I'll make it clear. You ruled with various variations, as PASOK, as a New Democracy. My humble opinion is that there has been no clear ideological difference for many years since Mr Simitis. So you have ruled with various variations, you have had one thing, but you have constantly in mind: how to get money from many and give it to the less and less. The first time has come to the left. We supported her. I, as a citizen, voted SYRIZA in January 2015 or December, I do not remember when the elections took place. We supported her and had a chance. There was a negotiation. Six months keep this negotiation. They shut us down. Mr Stournaras was very helpful, who said 'Take your money'. They've left, the writings unfortunately stay. They were very helpful to your parasitic canals, who seemed to be gypsies from Latin America to be in ATMs, because they had no money and liquidity and said that these gypsies are on Metropolitan Street or are in Kolonaki. But it wasn't. He was in Mexico or Peru. They all helped. So, finally, the "first time on the left" came and sadly conspired. We won't look at why he's contrived, we've never said he betrayed. We're saying he's contrived. We're saying he scared. And we say that this horror has led to overwhelming deadlocks, which are deadlocks, and the 'first time left' has also been like this. It also produced such budgets, which had no chance of bringing any results and were never implemented. He abolished the ESS that was the last support of the last of this earth, those who had no other income. He has put the energy that has arrived to us not to be able to pay, nor to us who are MPs - think of those who are not MPs! - to be a matter of the day-to-day negotiation. And these things are not too left, but I repeat that if you vote for a memorandum, you have no chance of defending the Greek people anymore. Look, the European Union is built with one goal, there is no democracy at all. For the sake of enlightenment, therefore, it must be maintained in this European Union, Mr President, even a small, subtle flame of light in these brutal days. And they're brutal days not just for us. It's been a brutal day for the Germans. And if anyone can explain, if Mr Mitsotakis can explain to the Greek - to mock him, in our opinion - because he's hungry, he says, "We're bankrupt." What can the German in question say to his own citizen? What's he gonna tell him? It has the largest industry in the world, and most importantly its economy has the greatest surpluses in the world. But seven million Germans, nearly 10%, are below the poverty line. It's a decision to make the last crumbs of the many, to give them to the minimum. The alternative to this Europe that we proposed, Mr President, was the green agreement. We know from the outset that no green agreement will be implemented. But we did so to prove to the public in Europe that while the rulers can do so, they choose not to do so. And that liberated and radicalised too many people. We said beforehand that the European Union will either be democratised or dissolved. We have now been shown that they prefer to destroy the universe, not to swim in the commonly known but, Mr President, to democratise this Europe. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We are therefore going through the belief that this European Union is now falling apart anyway. It's not our fault. It's your fault. From the North-South gap, we are now passing on to the new gap which is the West-East. But, at the same time, as I said before, the German citizens are suffering as much as they are. And things don't change. Mr. Solds continues the work from where Mrs. Merkel left it. This European Union is no longer reformed and we must say it clearly. One thing's picking up. Resuspends. And it should be overturned. If we do not break with this European Union, we have no chance of survival. Before I finish...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-18-S1-commons.u5	But finish, Mr. Gregoriadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-18-S1-commons.u6	I'll only need one minute, Mr. President. I would like to say to poor Mr Stavoura, the Minister of National Economy, that he is really - he is the last, I will say it now - when you are not able to answer, while you are in active Minister of Economy, if you will enter the public debt of your country 23 billion guarantees that you have received for the predators for the red loans, it means that you have lost from the weapons the finances you have in your hands. You've lost every weapon. The last one, for there is no fig sheet to hide a government's nakedness, is to say 'I don't know'. What does "you don't know" mean? You're either a Minister or you're not. Will these guarantees apply? Has he guaranteed them that you will give them 23 billion by a poor people? Thank you, Mr President, for the time you have given me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-18-S1-commons.u7	The President-in-Office shall not be allowed to make judgments in Members' speeches unless it relates to Parliament. Thus, the dear Klons will allow me to disagree with his introduction, because in this Chamber there are parties and MPs chosen freely by the Greek people, through democratic processes and in no other way. And now the parliamentary spokesman of the Greek Solution, my friend Mr. Mylonakis Antonis, will take the floor. Here, Mr. Mylonakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-18-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Gregoriadis, the Greek Solution entered the House and has a quiet conscience. Neither are we actors nor do we make the actors nor do we want the actors to replace us. We will be replaced or rewarded by the Greek people when the time comes. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, leaving here today and completing the five-day debate on the budget of 2022, I believe that none of you - because you have the responsibility - cannot be proud of the next day. You know, today's a day when you get out of the house in the morning, you know how cold it is. I ask, Minister, a man who is very good at economics is not questioned by anyone, what are we going to say to grandparents and grandparents who can't warm up today, who can't afford to pay the gas that is three times up, who can't afford to light the air condition, why is the current more than doubled? We see them every day. Yesterday, the Minister of Finance, Mr. Stakoras showed an account of PPC, more than doubled was the account. We're trying, he says, to give some crumbs. We'll try, he told you, Minister, we'll give you something more. What are we going to tell Mommy that her kid can't warm up? If this is what we sit down and think about, why are we, first of all, human beings, what do we say today about the budget? How about a budget, Minister, from the outset, a budget for 2022, which cannot be implemented without prospects? Is the problem of Greek listening to billions or to the percentage of GDP, which is minimal? Tie Turkey, for which everyone says Turkey's economy is over. Tie up what GDP is going on. It has more than 750 billion GDP. Turkey gave 20.3 billion in defence last year with 65% in its domestic defence industry. And you come here and sell us fairy tales, you silk ribbons that we're going well. The Minister of Health, Mr. Ploris, and instead of telling us five things about the deaths, which will shortly have more than twenty thousand deaths of people, many of whom died helplessly tubed out, waiting for them to enter a normal ITH, told us what Mr. Paulakis did in '15, in '16, in '17, things that the Greek people have known since 2011, '12, '13 when the hospitals were closed, the ITH was closed, the doctors were gone fired and they are now saying they can't find doctors. Why would we find doctors? Is the intensifier coming? Is the pneumonologist coming? Are the serious doctors who have left? Bear in mind how much money the doctors get in Cyprus, in Germany, and here we say to them: come and work twenty-four hours a day with 1,200 euros. Are doctors coming? That's all we need to see. In all this, ladies and gentlemen, over EUR 820 million in the ordinary state budget are being cut for 2022. And can I tell you something else? Is it possible in hospitals with prolonged pandemic, with the specialists - those specialists we have, since you say you hear the experts - to talk about the fifth wave and cut off from the hospitals money? Where are the doctors' hires? Energy crisis, food crisis and crisis in the supply chain. We had warned you two years ago, we said: 'Be careful, energy crisis is coming'. We've made suggestions to you too. I remember Kyriakos Velopoulos here this Step in the presence of the Prime Minister was begging: "Be careful, do not close the lignites, because the moment will come when we ask them." Autonomy in electricity, Minister, we have become overwhelming, forced and borrowed and purchased from outside lignite power. And of the cheapest electricity we had in Europe all of a sudden, we have the most expensive electricity in Europe. And you say it's because of international prices. It's not the fault. It is your fault, because you do not pursue a serious economic policy, a policy which will make the Greek a dead end. We have wealth and you throw it, you lock it, 300 billion lignites locked. Or rather not, we produce lignite to sell it cheaply in Germany and other countries and buy electricity at a price of two and a half times. And then you say: 'It is not our fault, it is Europe's fault. Watch out for another topic that overshadowed this budget here. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. The Greek Solution, on Tuesday at noon, raised the issue, the very serious issue, with the study Tsiodra - Lytra, a study that the government knew about, months ago. If the Prime Minister did not know her, as Mr Economou says - and we have no reason to believe it - then someone knew her. One knew, then, that these people who are out of the ICU permeated, waiting for a normal ICU, die. They're dying helpless! And you didn't do anything! Did the previous Minister of Health, whom you rewarded, Mr. Kikilia, know, by doing the Minister of Tourism? Did they know him at the medical staff of the Prime Minister, Mr. Chiodras, Brother Sotiris, who was next to him? Didn't he say anything to him? Didn't he say anything? 'Mr President, we have a study, we have to do something!'. Nothing! So we left the Greek people helpless and continue to have him helpless. And we'll have a lot of deaths from now on, because you see that the cases that are falling, the deaths remain stable, more than ninety. So, what do you want to do to set up intensive treatment units? I'm hanging up, gentlemen. This, of course, is a huge scandal. The Prosecutor, since yesterday, started making a preliminary one, to see who they handled - because no one in the government knows who they handled - after all this study. What we want to say is this: the only thing we will be positive about, Mr President-in-Office, is the credit for national defence. From the first moment we walked in, we saw the situation. The situation was tragic in July 2019. The parties of the New Democracy, KINAL and SYRIZA have a great responsibility for the current situation, which we are all calling out now - you are shouting - because the money spent is a lot, 6.93 billion, for defence this year. Every year - you will see this thing - for the next ten years, the costs of defence will increase. Because if we want to have national dignity, if we want our country to remain free, we have to give money for our weapons systems and not to have them too far. On one thing I just want to make a point.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-18-S1-commons.u9	And that's what you're closing up with, Mr. Mylonakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-18-S1-commons.u10	And that's what I'm closing down with, Mr. President. All these gun systems, the expensive - yesterday, the proposal came again and Tuesday we will discuss it in the Committee on Equipment - and the last six Rafahs, which the Prime Minister announced for the purchase, 165 million each Rafah along with his weapons systems, 1 billion in six Rafahs. And these fly people twenty-five years old, twenty-six years old, twenty-seven years old, young pilots who take 1,200, 1,300 euros every day.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-18-S1-commons.u11	Please, Mr. Mylonakis, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-18-S1-commons.u12	I shall conclude, Mr President. I'm not just talking about pilots, I'm not just talking about soldiers. I say about the whole society, that we must stand up to circumstances, that wages and wages are increased. No people can live like this.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-18-S1-commons.u13	Please, Mr. Mylonakis!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-18-S1-commons.u14	In conclusion, the Greek Solution is voting against this budget, with the exception of the national defence appropriations which it is voting against. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-18-S1-commons.u15	Today, on behalf of the Communist Party of Greece, a parliamentary representative has been appointed, Nikos Karathanasopoulos, who is called at Vima. Here, Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-18-S1-commons.u16	Thank you very much, Mr President. We have watched over the past few days - and may be repeated - an endless "dogs" on the ruins of the ESS among the main responsible for the state of the ESS, New Democracy, SYRIZA and the Change Movement - PASOK. A "dog fight" for both alibi and covert, both the responsibilities of all governments to date, and the current, of course, much more, as well as the agreement of all parties to the central issues relating to health. Responsibilities over time before the pandemic, but today they were shoved with the pandemic. Lacks in beds and beds ICU, closure of hospitals, mergers and combinations of hospitals and clinics. Great shortages in doctors and nurses, generally in hospital staff. Great shortages in machinery, technology and consumables. Supposed primary health care. Sub-financing and burden-sharing on the backs of insured persons and patients. And you're having a conversation now about how much the budget gives. We say clearly that it is sub-financing, because we measure it on the basis of needs and not on the basis of the little euros you gave and gave in the past, if it is one above or below. The causes of this situation in the health system are not other than trade, individual choice - that is why there are multiple levels of choice depending on each other's pockets. For the popular layers of 'bottle up', harmonious coexistence between public and private sectors, entrepreneurial activity in health, both in the private sector and in the public sector, which led to contractions, reversals in industrial relations, intensification of workers in hospitals. They constituted and constitute the central choices of all the parties of New Democracy, SYRIZA, Change Movement. And on these unclean materials, New Democracy wants to build the new ESS. Of course, I do not need to repeat the supremacy of socialism in health issues. We say clearly that it is a matter of the people's issue of protecting public and public health through the upgrading, development and reopening of hospitals, the development of new ICMs, with massive recruitment of permanent staff. And those who are today to simulate themselves. With primary health care on a 24-hour basis, developed on the basis of geographical needs, as well as social and productive needs. Responsibilities, without compensation for private hospitals and ICUs. That is why it must be the struggle of the people towards the policy of governments and the European Union, towards the urban state, which is very effective when it comes to collecting taxes. It is very effective when it is going to create infrastructure necessary for capital, when it is going to suppress the popular struggle, when it is going to create new armaments programs for our country to participate in American imperialist planning. And it is very ineffective when it comes to health, education, flooding, fires and earthquakes. Second matter. There was a lot of talk about the production model. Really, for who? You don't answer the question. For the people and their needs or the needs of capital? Both of them can't coexist in capitalism. Your answer, of course, without saying so, is for the needs of capital. Therefore, any production model is counter-working, is unfair and, of course, it is not free from the crises that characterize socialism. Because these are the characteristics found in the DNA of the capitalist system, those aggressive designations and to give growth - we were hearing about sustainable growth, holistic growth, cyclical growth, self-reliance - it is still a capitalist development that will reproduce, but it will also further increase inequalities. The 'to whom slaves' - Mr Drasakis said yesterday by speaking - defines, says, international competition. It also defines it, of course, and the maximisation of the profit rate rather than the volatility of any government. SYRIZA cannot now claim to be working on growth. Really? Is that why the first measure you took after the formal exit from the memorials was the ban on strikes? That's why you adopted the Brutsi Act to determine the minimum wage and make it a Brutsi-Achtsioglou Act? Thus, public expenditure and State intervention over time relate to the creation of the necessary infrastructure for the reproduction of capital, the coverage of the system's functionality gaps, the facilitation of the reproduction of the labour force. That is why we see health and education spending becoming increasingly compressed. Because they want a very cheap and consumable worker. Thus, people’s needs are essentially transferred to the bells, they are treated fragmentally and always after a celebration. Everything, but all models aren't free of crises. Because conditions of development always shape the terms and conditions for a new crisis even deeper. Capitalism will never get rid of its crises. It is a system that gives birth to exploitation and injustice. That is what the capitalist market brings. You recognize it. That is why you say that the State must intervene to bring the most acute angles, the most extreme consequences, to the substance. And how are they gonna miss them? With redistribution from the least poor to most poor. The benefits, therefore, and the various packages for relief of impoverished peoples, the people from their misery, are paid for. It is hopelessly the effort of SYRIZA parties, the Change Movement, the Mer25, capitalism to have a social face. From the 18th and 19th century Utopian socialists imagine such a system. They're delusional, but they're also conscious today. Any such detectable, possibly, features in previous decades that the capitalist system has passed unreturned. It was a result of class struggle. It was the result of coexistence with the socialism and supremacy of the socialist system that forced capitalism to make some concessions temporary, which after overturning it he took back and showed his true, hideous face. Another air is breathing in the European Union and in the United States, as you claim SYRIZA and Change Movement, and you are fighting among you who is the best expressor of social democracy. Social democracy over the years is tested in the hardest anti-government measures. And today, for example, Sanchez with sedatives, with plastic bullets confronted the miners in Candith. And Solts - he was Minister of Government Merkel - today makes a colorful government with the whole spectrum. What is it that unites them? Of course, the strategic needs of capital. Other parties, however, such as Mera25, are making various management proposals. The AIA - says - should become a General Secretariat of Public Revenue, as it has been in the past. And what difference does that change? Does it change the characteristic that the people will continue to bleed and pay taxes? Even this small enterprise involvement 5% is the money of workers from their stolen gains. You call yourself "Athena", "Ulysses", "Dimitra" the various management proposals. Of course, there are other gods and half-men from Venus who you can use, but with mythological faces they are not dealing with the problems that the people need today. You cannot cover that any proposals from the energy communities will address the accuracy and energy poverty that condemns the people, nor the various self-management schemes you have said, Mr Tsakaloto. Since the 19th century these shapes have been tested and on the substance all went bankrupt together.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-18-S1-commons.u17	Mr. Karathanasopoulos, close up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-18-S1-commons.u18	Mr President, I will be done in a minute. Thanks for the tolerance. That is why, in the big question of what is progressive today, we have seen twelve indicators from Mr Scorcho and from Mr Spirtzi. No matter how much saliva you spoil, a single one is the criterion of progression. Everything else is just prophecies in sin. What is it? The correspondence of each production potential with the fulfilment of modern needs. Capitalism isn't going to do that, but it keeps expanding the lane. Only socialism can respond to this challenge for socialism. Central planning and labour control are the tools for matching possibilities with needs. In this way we call on the workers to walk for the break-up and the more comprehensive overthrow. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-18-S1-commons.u19	The parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, Mr. Konstantina Giannakopoulou, is called at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-18-S1-commons.u20	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have followed with great interest and attention all the positions during the debate on the State Budget of 2022. The huge political and economic functioning of the budget, and its very nature, both in its preparation and in its vote, impose seriousness and responsibility, clear opinions and criticism, a substantial exchange of views. This is particularly the case in the current difficult period created by the continuing pandemic, by the energy crisis and the phenomena of accuracy, but also by the dangers and the situation in Turkey that fuels further aggression, but also by these factors, a feeling of concern and uncertainty among Greek citizens. We all have a huge responsibility. Life, the daily lives of citizens, and the future of the country, are influenced by the tables, by the figures and by the statistics that are reflected in this plan for ratification. The lives of all Greeks, however, are more than just mathematics than additions and removals. We therefore need to see whether there is a real, better future behind this, if issues about the quality of life and the income of the Greeks are questioned. This is also the anguish of the Change Movement and our new President, Mr Nikos Androulakis. So I think some very important, key questions are raised: has the human factor behind these figures been calculated in this budget? Is there any form of social budget and, if so, whether it is considered sufficient? Does the proposed State Budget for the financial year 2022, which you bring to ratification, take into account all citizens equally and especially the most vulnerable of us or the least-favoured? It is simply questions which the average citizen is concerned with and poses. The middle class, for example, has suffered an unprecedented exhaustive tax from the previous government, but now it seems to be continuing to squeeze again from the younger one. The uncontrolled appreciations, the lack of fuel and energy, the European Union's dependence on gas, the huge crisis in the supply chain and product markets really scare the Greek family. We are talking, the government's representatives are admiring themselves, but citizens are concerned, ladies and gentlemen. They're talking about energy tariffs that scare, actually when they go to supermarkets. This concern and discomfort are not reassured, ladies and gentlemen of the government, by sermons from the seat, nor by the injecting of unscrupulous over-estimation. They demand landing, they require concrete measures. The government is talking about the growth of the economy of 4.7%, having even raised that figure in its flag. Continuous drum impacts in trying to convince a large part of the public, which for growth listens to, but growth does not see or, at least, growth that improves noticeably, substantially improves their lives. Amid an energy and health crisis, wages remain at Balkan levels, with living costs reminiscent of Luxembourg, however. It is clear that the recovery for a large part of vulnerable groups, but also for many of the employees and pensioners, for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and farmers, does not only have any real impact, but also, through accuracy, lead to a rapid reduction in their available income, no matter how much you want to convince us of the opposite. Greece was already an exact country before the rapid rise in inflation in 2021. In fact, Greece with the recession and 2020 according to EUROSTAT figures was in the last place between the 27 countries of the European Union in front of Bulgaria alone at the rate of purchasing power and per capita income. This means that despite the anticipated mathematical recovery, ladies and gentlemen, there is a serious risk that growing inflation will now make Greek households definitively in the sky. Do you want to say it more clearly? We are talking about a seemingly development of citizens' economics, but at the same time further poverty of the middle class and vulnerable groups. I would like to point out again the very important report by the Institute of Small Enterprises, GSEW, which detects an increase in debt, identifying extensive insecurity, fragile sustainability and risk of mass packages of small and medium-sized enterprises on the return of the economy in relatively normal conditions and the withdrawal of support measures for enterprises. I didn't hear convincing answers, ladies and gentlemen of the government. I have not heard any convincing measures to deal with this situation, an area which has already suffered too much, with its strengths being exhausted. I also wonder how 2021 is being done with an increase in GDP of 6.9% to increase tax revenues by 4.7% and 2022 by growth of 4.5% to increase tax revenues by 7.5%? But this can only be done by increasing indirect taxation, Mr Pylakakakis, which, of course, we all know very well who is the most affected. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll need a minute, Mr. President. At the same time, the forecast for an increase in pension costs is EUR 50 million, when, in fact, pensioners are expected to multiply after the process of awarding pensions. Let him fade. The low pensioners of 500 euros, gentlemen of the government, who are counting on the eight hundred thousand, will receive from you 250 euros in gifts to pass Christmas celebrations. Similar tactics of a government that wants to appear as government on the assumption of major reforms and similar tactics to the former self-progressive Left. But don't forget, Mr. Psilakakis, that all these measures your party had been stitching and described as beads for natives. Obviously now you have forgotten about it and do exactly the same without great reforms.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-18-S1-commons.u21	Shut up with this.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-18-S1-commons.u22	Expenditure on unemployment benefits is also set at EUR 200 million, on the grounds of the government's expectation of increasing employment and at the same time reducing unemployment. How and on what terms exactly will this be achieved, no one knows that. In conclusion - and I am closing down, Mr President - the state budget is not just figures, it is specific policies that must respect the human dimension. It is an action plan that should put the ordinary citizen at his core, in particular by protecting the low and medium-income and vulnerable households by making all parts of any development equivalent. Unfortunately, we do not see that, nor am I convinced of what I have heard. Unfortunately, we are heading to a plan and to the vote on a budget based on abstract optimism and a disputed basis in the face of an unforeseen for many futures. That is why we are practicing, ladies and gentlemen of the government, opposition criticism and not just an opposition custom. And that is why we will not vote on this budget other than defensive expenditure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-18-S1-commons.u23	Mr. President, may I?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-18-S1-commons.u24	Minister, you will keep your notes. The procedure has never been interrupted and in the end I will give you the floor for five minutes in total to answer. The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Euklidis Tsakalotos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-18-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as Mr Chacloglu explained, even the weaker ones have a comparative advantage. The State’s comparative advantage is direct awards. It does not, however, have a comparative advantage in explaining what happened with the Lyra-Tsiodra report. I will not deal with the government very much today. We have put forward arguments and we have not received any answers. I personally have also tabled graphs that, in my view, degrade your entire account. Only one I will testify again, because you're not even talking about it. There is a report that the poorest, 50% of the world economy only have 2% of wealth, 8.5% of income and the rich have 76% of wealth and 52% of income. Like it's none of your business, like you don't care about this thing. I have tabled charts that say wages no longer follow productivity, how we have surveys that say that when you reduce the maximum rate of taxation or the profit tax, growth does not increase, how investment worldwide is low over the past twenty years with the same policies. These elements come out of the dividing lines, especially in terms of inequality. So let me speak in this speech about the future of both the other parties on the left and what we can do. I'm starting with the JRC. Yesterday Mr Pafilis told us that all budgets are by definition capitalist and this is what the poor world pays for. I shall table in Minutes a chart on inequality after the second world war, showing how inequality has declined after the second world war and how much has increased in the era of neoliberalism. But it's not always the same. Today Mr Karathanasopoulos answered: 'Yes, but at that time we had the Soviet Union, then we had a popular movement'. That's right. There was that, too, but that wasn't all. It was that after the war the soldiers returned to the West and said "we do not return to the 1930s when we fought", in what the historians at my school said, in the 1930s, with unemployment and poverty and inequality. Do you need a movement? Obviously, and that's why we need to see what we're doing and how this movement is being created to change what I was saying. The main question, however, is not even that. It is this: If you make some progressive changes, do you extend the possibility of workers? Mr. Karathanasopoulos, it wasn't just what you said about the strikes. When SYRIZA finished his government reinstated the collective agreements, increased the minimum wage, made redundancies more difficult. Did they strengthen the world of work to enlarge the agenda, yes or no? When we made social policy and reduced child poverty, poverty in general, that broadens an agenda so that we can change where we want to go? This is the main question, what reforms, what interventions not only help the people's income and that of the middle classes, but also give them the power to go further. I'm going to PASOK now. Yesterday we heard Mr Papandreou's speech saying that he understands that the New Democracy must deal with what the Government does not deal with inequality, redistribution of income. One point worried me. I was worried about the point where it says: 'a invitation to everyone we should call'. But it can't be towards everyone. How can the invitation be for everyone? What are the social reports on the Left to change things? Evidently with these elements and these inequalitys are not just lost. There are those who win. But PASOK and KINAL need to understand that it needs to rediscover the thread with the popular movements that brought changes to the golden age, and it must decide how far it leaves from the time of Simitis, Clinton, Blair, the consensus that has become the neoliberal one that has these results of social inequality. You can no longer have the language of technocratics alone. If things are to change, you need to rediscover the thread with the social powers. Finally, for Mera25, although you say a lot of good things both about ecology and about rights, it seems to me that - and we must all speak properly - it is a big issue that needs to be raised, and we think it should be put in our programme as well - you put it almost as the KIC puts socialism, that without a good and good debt we cannot do anything. But that is not only that it does not take into account the correlations, so how you do this, how you create this movement and this power with European alliances to change this, but it does not even give the hope that, in the meantime, we can do many things for both the rights you put for the ecology and for another environment, which these things are expanding - as I say - the agenda. In conclusion, Mr President, and I will not be late, we must all understand the criticality of the pandemic, the economic crisis and the climate crisis. We cannot listen to this world's concern and give solutions to policies to transform fear, anxiety and insecurity into politics. In other words, we need to fight fear with hope. We need to tackle security with social policies that help people, but also strengthen them. We have to face the feeling that people have in the post-democratic era that they cannot influence their lives with more rights. That's the only way we can move on. It's not socialism, but it's a good start. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-18-S1-commons.u26	Parliamentary representatives will now be closed with the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Giannis Vroutzis. Then we will give the floor for five minutes to the Deputy Minister, Mr. Dogaki, to answer something he wants and opens the circle of the political leaders in reverse time. Mr. Brutsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-18-S1-commons.u27	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is a challenge, in its good sense, for Mr Tsakalotos to succeed in the step and in his capacity as a professor of finance, but also as former Minister of Finance in the country to be governed by SYRIZA. Mr Tsakalotos, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA and the Communist Party and KINAAL and the Greek Solution I have the honour of belonging to the New Democracy party, of believing in its ideological principles and values since I started feeling life from my teen years. Today, making an assessment of these years of my active attitude and action in politics, I tell you that I am proud to belong to and belong to this party. We do not grant Mr Chakaloto, nor a thousand times more sensitivity to you for society, for pensioners, for the weak. At the core of the ideology and worthy principles of the New Democracy ideology was always man. But we have a difference. While we have the same goal, social sensitivity, support for the fellowman, a friendly policy, an improvement in people's standard of living, what is our difference? The approach to achieving this objective. Let me tell you that what you say and say today about opening up to the Left and the Left parties for consultation between you is a long theoretical debate which does not work. Because in order to support man and his standard of living, the basic condition is to create wealth. We, too, have a realistic programme to gain wealth. It is this programme that is implemented around the world: the creation of wealth through growth, by attracting investment, by supporting entrepreneurship. They're not selfish what I said. Neither entrepreneurship nor attracting investment. He's a man. This is the New Democracy and the ideological core of our beliefs and principles. But we're realists. This budget for which we are debating, ladies and gentlemen, is, of course, coming to an end today. Two hundred and twenty colleagues, as the President said before, with the rapporteurs and Parliamentary Representatives, were given the opportunity to place themselves very comfortable last night. We're done early at 10:00. They were given the opportunity to say their views. This budget makes a big difference from last year. I brought it up yesterday, I bring it back today. What's the difference between last year's budget and this year's budget? Last year, ladies and gentlemen, the opposition to the entire 2020 budget for 2021 was that this budget was virtual, inappropriate and is not going to be done, because there was the pandemic. By the end of 2021 - I remember them from this Step and where I was sitting - you said we would have a collapse of the labour market and thousands of knives. All that you have said, ladies and gentlemen, the arrest of the Anti-Populations has fallen void. All your predictions. None of what you said last year about the budget was done. On the contrary. The 2021 budget has been fully implemented and it has even fallen outside. In the good sense of the term. I also criticised Mr Stavoura and Mr Psulakakis yesterday that they had underestimated the indicators of growth and declining unemployment. These are two important indicators. The development dimension and development of the social state. They fell out. It was much larger than the 3.5% growth that they had put in and closed at 6.9% now for 2021. In the medium term, 4.5% growth for 2022 was underestimated. Again, I believe - I said yesterday - that the growth indicators that the budget says are underestimated. On this side they're falling out. On this side, the budget fell out. As far as social policies are concerned, I repeat, ladies and gentlemen, these are measured not in words and good intentions. Good intentions we all have. In practice, what policies do they do? So, can we see some policies? You keep referring to the minimum wage. And we want to raise the minimum wage. How much will it grow? Here's a question. Is it a 1,000 euros? To be 2,000 euros? Say a number. Are we arbitrarily computing it? In our country, Mr Chakaloto, because you are making this specific reference, for many years in the past it has been calculated by a system and in a way that has the element of arbitraryness within it. And that way wasn't so successful. For this reason in 2013, L.4972/2013 brought in a new modern framework for calculating the minimum wage then challenged by you. It was a very strong criticism of the Brutsi Act that the JRC says. That's what you're saying. You keep talking about a Brutsi law. Yes, it's the law that changed the minimum wage framework. Because what he did. He did something obvious. For the calculation of the minimum wage you will include not only as a state, ministers and political system, but also the trustworthy, institutional institutions: Bank of Greece, ELSTAT. All the scientific, reliable, economic operators in the country will appreciate what the minimum wage we can pay is taking into account unemployment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-18-S1-commons.u28	Say more. Why don't you say? BSE...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-18-S1-commons.u29	And scientific bodies, the GSC. Of course, all the social partners. It cannot be one-sided on the one hand it must be on the other. All the social partners. So, then, we created the law that you denounced in 2013 and then, proudly and with applause here, in this Chamber, you restored the Brutsis Act, No 4172/13 and it applies. And the 11% increase in the minimum wage you paid in 2019, based on this law, you gave it. You didn't give it arbitraryly. You gave it by this law, and so the minimum wage must be calculated. Not with populism, not with voices, not with slogans, because in the end, if the minimum wage level falls out, we have to give the workers, it turns boomerang against workers. It must be reasoned and balanced, and productivity and the level of unemployment and the income available and the crisis, all of it. That was missing from the country and now we have it as a tool. Other social policy policies that we have implemented: We have made the minimum guaranteed income, a modern policy that laid the foundations of the modern Greek state and social policy. In 2014 you smuggled it and said it a trap of poverty, and it is being fully implemented today. You supported it, we support it and it is the modern social person of Greece. With regard to social policy in support of the weak: the 2013 A21 on family allowances, together with Mr. Tsakloglu, we had made it. This is therefore a series of policies which in practice demonstrate who is in favour of workers' social policy. What about the 'ERGANI', which Mr Hatzidakis has now voted for 'ERGANI 2', is it or is it not in favour of workers? "ERGAN 1" didn't hit the undeclared work that from 42.3% has fallen below 4%? "ERGAN 2" will not now strike the phenomenon of implied work? Is it or isn't it for the workers? And "ERGANI 3", which will be the end of this innovative tool for our country, will be the abolition of the detailed periodical declaration and the substitution of the revenues of the insurance funds, through the "ERGANI" rather than the detailed periodical statement stated by companies. These are the social policies that in practice help workers, as well as the reduction of insurance contributions and the reduction of duty-free...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-18-S1-commons.u30	That's what you're closing up with, Mr. Brutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-18-S1-commons.u31	I shall close, Mr President, as follows. Yesterday I mentioned the elements of the declining of unemployment. It's unnecessary to say it again. They've been written in the budget, they've been written against Coron. In July 2019 it was 17.3%, in October, now, 2021 is 13.3% four points down. We do not wish, unemployment is high. The aim is to reduce more. And I close with something I said yesterday, and I think it is very important. Ladies and gentlemen, this budget will be voted on and I wish you could vote for it too. We understand the party claws. It is our case, however, to vote on it - and we will do so - and to implement it and implement it. The major challenges facing our country are in 2022 and 2023. And let me mention them in titles: First, Mr Psulakakis, Minister for Finance, it is the maintenance of reduced insurance contributions and the permanentisation of the measure. Secondly, it is the extension of the abolition of the solidarity levy to both the public and the permanentisation of the measure. It is the reintroduction of the special scheme, reduced VAT, of rates throughout the Aegean. Thirdly, it's the brave minimum wage increase. Fourthly, it is dealing with pandemic, dealing with the energy crisis. In these words, ladies and gentlemen, I have tried briefly in the nine minutes that I have had - I said yesterday - to prove that there is no excess of sensitivity in favour of another component, but we are tempting in terms of realism, responsibility and consistency. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-18-S1-commons.u32	Minister, if you want to speak from your position, you will do so with a mask, if you want to speak without a mask, you will have to go up to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-18-S1-commons.u33	I prefer without a mask from the Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-18-S1-commons.u34	Well, you have the floor for five minutes to answer. And then the circle of presidents of Parliamentary groups begins in reverse, as I said before.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-18-S1-commons.u35	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'll try to be brief. I shall begin with Mrs Giannakopoulou, who asked why the revenues will be increased by more than the GDP growth rate. The reason is simple. We have had some reductions in taxation that is one-off, such as advance payment of income tax, large reductions, plus some suspensions of tax obligations, so the revenue we will have is greater and I think we should be careful. You know very well that we have not made any tax increase. Therefore, you cannot imply that an increase in tax rates is included in the increase in revenue. It's clear. On the other hand, serious reductions in tax rates such as VAT will apply for the first six months in a number of categories and others. You have also raised the question of how much the social state is. On page 52 of the budget, for the first time, it is recorded how much the welfare state is in general government expenditure, it is EUR 57 billion in expenditures of 2022. It is 39 billion for pensions and social protection, it is 12 billion for health - hospitals, EEAS etc., clean from intra-government trade - and is 6 billion for education. I call your numbers roughly. We therefore have about 30% of GDP going to what we call a social state and will be of great importance in the coming years, all the wings of this Chamber to deal with and how these expenditures will get much more place. I will give you an example. We give too much money on income criteria and we know that a large number of people tell us much less income than what they have. They are therefore entering the income criteria, i.e. they take money from the social state, and in practice the reason for doing so is that they are evading tax. Such issues that we do not discuss in this Chamber should concern us, in order to improve the effectiveness of social costs, so that people can have more effect on the taxes they pay. That is the idea of reform, of being more effective. Mr Tsakalotos did not refer much to the budget, he mentioned the alliances on the left. I remembered, listening to him, a phrase by Lenin, saying that in the alliances - that was the Leninist view - there's always someone doing the horse and making the rider. That was Lenin's phrase. When SYRIZA was able to make alliances in February 2015, he chose Mr. Kammenos rather than the Left. That was a strategic choice of SYRIZA, which I fear will be paid for in the coming years. I will now go vice versa with what Mr Mylonis told us. Mr Mylonakis, you cannot criticise him for its opposite. You must imply that we must give more money and say that we are giving too much money. This is a weakness of the smaller parties, which have not exercised government power. For Mera25, I won't make any special references. After all, it is about how the planet will be changed primarily and not about what is happening in Greece. With regard to Mr Brutsis, Mr Brutsi, these are indeed these challenges, but for me the biggest challenge of 2021 is fuel and gas prices in particular. This is the greatest difficulty we have, because when fuel prices increase, the country loses wealth, reduces its GDP. In 2015-2017 the previous government was lucky to have too low gas and for fuels like oil at about $50 a barrel. This gave a huge opportunity to the country, which lost it. Unfortunately, we don't have that luck. This year we have a very expensive gas, which is pressing all over Europe - oil is more reasonable, it is close to what it was, $18 to $19 - and what is mainly concerned with us, because we have to deal with it, is the impact it has on households, to the extent that we can. Still, I'm very optimistic about 2022. It is a year when Greece will once again rise up mainly with investments and exports. That is the government's policy. We still have fortresses in front of us, but I see the port on the horizon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-18-S1-commons.u36	Good. I would ask that the Step in which the President of the Mera25 Parliamentary Group is called on to clean up Mr. Ioannis Varoufakis. Here, Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-18-S1-commons.u37	Ladies and gentlemen, a state budget of 2022, I hope that in his speech both the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister will defend the foundation stone of the government's budget. The foundation stone of each budget is the main assumptions of data, the most basic, for example inflation, accuracy, the major threat of the days. I would like to see Mr Mitsotakis from this Step forward stand up and look at you, his MPs, the Greek people and tell him what is the basic acceptance of your budget - and I will read you from the ELSTAT press release of 10 December now - that the average consumer price index in the last 12 months has risen from 0.6% to 0.6%. Let Mr Stakoras rise, let Mr Mitsotakis rise and tell the Greek people that what they did 100 euros last year on average is 100,6 euros, 100 euros and 60 cents. To say, Mr Staikoura, when you come to plenary, what is essentially a basic assumption, the foundations of your budget, the outrageous, what it says - in 2022 the average, the average cost of life will be 2%. When? In 2022. The punisher - I will say one more time, is so outrageous that I too have to dig it - will be - in 2022 by 2% less than it was in 2011. This is your admission, this is the bare foundation on which you build the budget, which - and you yourself admit it - is threatened by an increase in fuel price, accuracy. Mr Mitsotakis will rise here at this Step to look at three hundred and sixty thousand citizens who are registered in the OAU as unemployed and say to them: "You are not unemployed, because ELSTAT considers that three hundred and sixty thousand of our people who are registered in the OAU as unemployed are not unemployed." Because since 2016, since ELSTAT has been handed over to the troika, it has been the first time that ELSTAT has done the opposite of what happened in previous years. More unemployed than enrolled in the OAED were reported in previous years. Now we have three hundred sixty-one thousand people registered in the OAED, which ELSTAT considers they are not unemployed. That is why Mr Skoplakis asks us to glorify him for reducing unemployment. Let's get her down! Tell ELSTAT to put unemployment down! It doesn't make any difference. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to be clear, from the Step of the House in the debate on the state budget, I formally denounce ELSTAT - which, of course, does not answer to us, Mr President, in Parliament, in the troika is answering - for deliberate misled by public opinion. I denounce the Prime Minister and his financial staff for further torture of the already tortured numbers of ELSTAT, which you tortured until they confess that we are going perfectly, while our people are tortured to make it through. As for Mr. Tsipras, the Chief of Officership, what can I say? The other day, he was forced by the Prime Minister to say that he does not question the credibility of ELSTAT's numbers. What else can he do, since he and his government handed ELSTAT over to the troika? Whatever SYRIZA says now is too late. The conspiracy for six years allowed these gentlemen and ladies to swing the finger on the Greek people while they misled him and plundered him. We have a Prime Minister who invokes science, wherever it suits him. We have a Prime Minister who, when science does not interest him, sneezes her, distorts her numbers, pretends that the studies of her own scientists did not exist, they did not read her, they did not know. This is Mr Mitsotakis, ladies and gentlemen. He behaves as if the rules of science do not concern him. It acts as if the rules of the economy do not apply to them. They do not blurred when they irritate numbers that affect the intelligence of ordinary people out there, people suffering from their own debris, whether they are for the National Health System on the forehead of an insidious virus, or in the economy, while austerity strikes again and more insidiously than ever disguise as inflation. Why, ladies and gentlemen, do not make a mistake, that is what austerity does. Our people's austerity achieves exactly what wage and pension cuts achieved in 2011, 2012, 2013. It further reduces the income of the weaker and disproportionately, the weaker you are, the more brutal today's inflation is hitting you, which is not 0.6% in the last 12 months, Mr. Stakoura. This austerity, in the new form of inflation, turns PPC's accounts into a lock on small and medium-sized enterprises. Do you understand that? Even small and medium-sized enterprises that had no debts will now be closed, because they create debts in PPC which are absolutely unbearable, while the shareholders, suppliers, the roundabout of the good company "Mitsotakis S.A." eat with golden spoons. [[Applause from the Wing of Mera25]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are in the thirteenth to thirteenth year of wage cuts. Do you realize that? With your own data - without taking into account inflation - in euros from what the world has in its pocket, if any, I quote: In 2011, the share of GDP, of national income that went to wages - with your own figures - was 54.9%, which was practically 112 billion. In 2011, around 55% of GDP, 112 billion came to employees. In 2014, the proportion of GDP going to employees fell from 54.9% to 52.4%. And because, of course, the pie had shrinked in 2014, we are talking about 93 billion. Of the 112 billion fell 93 billion. In 2022, according to your own assumptions, the wage share will have decreased to 49.5%, for the first time below 50% of GDP. In other words, according to your own figures - even the growth in growth that you, Mr Stavoura and Mr Mitsotakis say we will have - total wages will fall to 92 billion over the 93 billion that was in 2014, at prices much higher, as you know very well, but you do not admit it, with ELSTAT together. At the moment, you have before you, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, a people where, according to official figures, 82% does not have a single euro. Do you realize that? 82% of Greeks out there do not have a single euro. According to a recent survey by GSEW, 43.4% of the Greek people, i.e. almost half the Greek people, their pension, their salary ends on the nineteenth day of each month. According to the AIA, a million three hundred and sixteen thousand people, taxpayers, are facing today with forced recovery measures. According to the European Statistical Authority, EUROSTAT, in 2019, before the pandemic begins, our per capita income in terms of purchasing power, the Purchasing Power Standard, was 66% of the European average. Last year, all Europe suffered from the pandemic, but for us the distance from the average grew, from 66% to 62%. Only Bulgaria was worse, but even Bulgaria had a rise from 52% to 55%. This is the reality, not virtual, not the creature that Mr Mitsotakis experiences in his own "Metsoverse". This is the reality out there, a people who sink into poverty. Right now what are you telling him? Well, that was immeasurable. I heard Mr. Mitsotakis here saying that we must glorify them for sharing social dividends from the surplus that it achieved! What surplus, Mr. Stakoura? GDP is lower than in 2019. We hope to get back to GDP in 2019. You have a primary deficit! Your wages - you said so - will be in 2022 a billion less than 2014, with your own figures, while the rents, food and, of course, the current has become a fire! Who are you kidding? For fools, do you pass on the civilians when they hear you tell them that you're going to share them with the surplus and they know the surplus is negative? You know, the dividend of the negative surplus is negative. Negative dividend means cuts, taxes, austerity. That's what it means. Ladies and gentlemen, if you were interested in alleviating citizens from the fact that you would do three things. I heard Mr. Brutsi talking about a minimum wage. What does it say? Our long-time vezier will announce sometime an increase in the minimum wage. Every day when you do not increase the minimum wage while prices increase, you reduce the actual minimum wage. We do not recognise you the right - we do not recognise the right to any governor - to reduce the actual salary, with the government waiting when the long-term bezier will decide to raise the minimum wage. We are talking about automatic indexation of the minimum wage, i.e. it is not a matter at the discretion of the governor. When calculating the indexation, be determined by new inflation indicators, an indicator per vulnerable group. It's simple what I'm going to tell you, and I hope you understand it. Each vulnerable group has its own inflation. Other inflation is of particular need for specific goods to be able to function in society, other inflation is the pensioner living in Perama, another inflation is the income earner living in Katali. As far as electricity is concerned, we've told you before and we'll say it again. Are you worried about invoices? Remove the marginal invoicing. It is scandal for our people to pay out there depending on the cost of the most expensive kilowatt, while the cost of the average kilowatt is much lower. This means, at the same time, abolishing this allegedly energy stock exchange. We decide what part of the increase in imported energy will absorb the state, what part the rich will absorb it and what part - we say any part - will hurt the poorest. Ladies and gentlemen, one of the greatest problems of our people out there, whether it is a New Democracy, whether it is a SYRIZA, a Mera25 or a KKE, is rent, a roof. You guys at PASOK are gone. Always absent. You were not absent, however, when in the second Memorandum of February 2012 with the well-known Law 4046 you abolished the Labour Residence Agency. We are the only country that does not have a social housing programme and I do not mean rent benefits, I mean the only thing that can really reduce the cost of housing that is increasing home supply through building, building social housing. Mer25, we will introduce the social housing agency that does not exist and it is scandalous that it does not exist in this country. [[Applause from the Wing of Mera25]] And let Mr. Communists tell us, we don't mind. Although we remind you that Constantine Karamanlis, Mr. Plearis, would call him Communist, for we do not forget that he dared to buy off private electric companies at a price that he decided himself, he dared in his first budget Constantine Karamanlis in 1955 to fund the Organization for the Labour Residence, the one you abolished. Of course, none of what we say about the electricity nor the roof will. And want both you - as much as you have commitments in the troika. The new austerity, i.e. inflation cannot be fought without a break. So here we are, ladies and gentlemen, how is the unseen fifth memorial being built a little bit? You started with the program "HRAKLIS", you went to the bankrupt, you privatised supplementary pensions, now comes austerity through accuracy, and after the new austerity we will have the new pillaging. Don't make any mistakes! Do not let them sleep you from Berlin and Frankfurt with deceptive promises. At some point soon, Frankfurt and Brussels, after Berlin balances its budget, they will come to impose new conditions on you to continue lending you, to move the mountain of debt. It is amazing that this government has an argument to convince the world that the economy is going well, it says: "They lend us cheaply." Well, haven't you been taught anything since 1997 - 2007? You are confusing the country just as it was at the time when PASOK and New Democracy were building bubbles, the digging of which was a lust to the Greek social economy. Only now, Mr Stavoura, Mr Mitsotakis, the new overcharge is added to the long world debt record, and even to a country which has a deficit in the balance of payments now and which, of course, does not print the money in which it is borrowed. Get this country straight to new hazelnut. This country's total debt, private and public, in 2022, will be around 600 billion. Do you realize that? You yourself admit that in 2022 we will have 355 billion public debt. Mr. Tsakalots wanted to do a genius and say that for us the debt is that for the JRC socialism is for the JRC. First of all, the genius didn't work. Secondly, socialism, unfortunately, is still subtle. Not only is debt tangible, but it has been sinking this country for years into dependence, into the debt-government. It's a global debt record of 600 billion. Shall we put them down? We have 355 billion. The 21 billion that you have promised in the predatory funds for the "HERAKLES" programme, EUROSTAT, you know very well that it pushes you to sign up for the debt. These will be registered and we will go to 376 billion. Even if we have the growth you predict, we're talking about 212% debt. Aren't you telling me the money from the 'SURE' programme you don't owe them? Shouldn't you pay it back? The money for the Recovery Fund, because the Recovery Fund was financed with a debt of the European Commission, which has not a penny of its own, all states are begging, giving guarantees, we will at some point pay these, is around 10 billion, over a period of 2030, 2040, 2050, not important, but they are added to public debt. And when? In a time when, you know it very well, read any financial newspaper you want, raise interest rates. So no lesson from the government from 1997 to 2010 will be learned that interest rates will only go upwards by even more gigantic the already colossal debt, which will of course never be repaid, because if not the slaves. What the debt accumulation is doing is increasing, giggling the country's dependence. It deepens the debt colony. You are talking about growth and growth of GDP. How do you do that without getting red, I don't understand that. Mr. Stavura, we were here two years ago. You deposited your first budget, December 19. I would refer you to page thirty-six, chapter 2, in Table 2.1., where you predict that in 2019 it will be closed with a GDP of 192 billion, in fact 192.749.000.000. That's what you predict in the December 19th budget. In January of the '20s, which followed, shortly before the pandemic begins, reduce it a little, you said the '19 GDP was down to 187,5. That's what you've been saying all '20s till September '20s. What you saw - that was the period you were telling me, you remember, here we were when the pandemic started your prediction was - that there would be no recession in the '20s when I was talking about minus 10, at least minus 10. After a while, you took it to minus two, minus three. At some point, you saw the minus come, ten, and what did you do? What did you do with ELSTAT? In September of '20s you reduced the GDP of '19s, you took it from 187,5 to 183,5, to show the recession of '20s. So it doesn't seem that it was actually more than 10% the recession. Friends of SYRIZA, do you understand what they did? In order to drop the '19 GDP, artificially, so that it would appear the '20 recession less than the one it was, you were stolen - I'm sure I'm telling you this, you were stolen - around 5 billion from the 2018 GDP, because they reduced the GDP of '18 - so it doesn't seem that '19 had a recession compared to '18 - so they dropped both '18 and '17 and reached '10. It's not PASOK's friends here to tell them they have reason to be angry too. 2010-2011 was a tragic period in terms of recession. We had 30.5 billion recession, GDP reduction, this period, in the period 2010-2011. However, you charged them with another 4 billion to reduce the '19 GDP, so that it does not appear too much' to reduce the heading as to what the 1920 recession would be. It's all right! Even after Troiko-grek statistics - because I call it 'troiko-greeek statistics' - even so, the recession in current prices, GDP in 2020 was 9.58 out of 183,4 - this fictitious GDP of 1919 - at 165.8 Good. This year, fortunately, due to vaccinations, because we have fewer lockdowns, we have a recovery. What should be recovery in 2021, so that we can get where we were - you tell us, now that we were - in 2019? The answer is at least 11%. Even if we have 11% growth in 2021 and go back where we were in 19, we will return with a huge new debt and even negative net investment. I know the candy you're going to chew now, when you heard the word 'investments': the Recovery Fund. Aren't you telling me? Did you hear what the new Mr. Shoeble, called Lindner, was German's new finance minister? Did you hear what he said? [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] I didn't hear you. I don't know if you heard him. He said something very specific. And I will tell you first English, to translate it into Greek: "The price of the recovery fund is fiscal discipline". "The cost of the Recovery Fund", he told you, "it is budgetary discipline". You know what that means, don't you? It does not speak of himself, it speaks of you, it speaks of the most heated: the fifth memorandum is here, unitedly, and the dependence and future of the Greek people will depend on the share of debt with the revenue declared in our tax. That's what matters. Do you want to make a comparison with 2015? Do you know why I'm telling you this? Because I know, Mr. Stavros will rise, Mr. Mitsotakis will rise and try to throw the ball back in the 2015 platform. Don't get tired, I'll do it to you. In 2015 our reported incomes in Greece were 76 billion. In 2015. In 2019, you know it was less? 75.2 billion. Yours, evidence of the Treasury. For 2022, how much do you say the declared income will be? You yourself, your services say we're going to 76 billion. So, what do you think? That the declared revenues of 2022, which you say "tarajum, will all be perfect!", will be the ones that were in 2015. In 2015, ladies and gentlemen, for every 1,000 euros declared to the tax office, the state owed 4,070 euros. In 2022, with your own figures, he will owe 4.950 euros, 22% more. For every grand declared tax will owe the state 22% more. If we add the red debts of private individuals, the insurance funds, we conclude that, in 2015 for every 1,000 euros declared taxed by the state and the citizens together owed EUR 6,928, 2022 for every 1,000 euros declared in the year state and citizens will owe 7,888 euros. Tell me, Mr. Stakoura, tell me, Mr. Mitsotakis, what country in the world are the citizens most in debt? I'll answer you. No one. Thirteen years continuously new debt. Thirteen years of negative investment. In 2007 we had 63 billion gross investment. In 2015 a little more than 2014. I remind you of that. In 2014, we had 21 billion, in 2015 we had a few more gross investments. In 2020, we had reached 24 billion and some billion. However, depreciation is higher, we still have negative investments. Even next year as a percentage of GDP, gross investment seems to be smaller than it was even in 2015. In the period 2009-2020, where Germany had an increase in gross investment by 45%, Belgium 36%, countries such as Italy and Spain that coexist with us as southern countries minus 7% Italy, minus 20%, minus 70% Greece. Thirteen years when the Debatian colony is men, it deepens and its "walls" are tall. Because you will again say for 2015, let me first say that it is a great honour, ladies and gentlemen, that I was the only Minister of Finance who did not borrow a euro, who left the Ministry with 11 billion less debt than I found, which was hated by the lenders because I refused to borrow more, to allow them to pretend that we were paying them back, while we are being robbed, while our children are leaving for the outside. [[Applause from the Wing of Mera25]] I hear Mr Mitsotakis often talk about Brain Drain. Who? How about you? When was Brain Drain? Look at your own evidence. By the age of 14, hundreds of thousands of our children left abroad. Are you responsible for Brain Drain and dare to speak today of Brain Gain, while more and more children of the non-preferential classes are leaving? But, of course, they return the children of the oligarchy to participate in the faggot of "Metsotakis S.A.". Is he trying to talk to you about '15? Committee of Inquiry. And you just want to do it for '15, just for my period in the Treasury? Do it. It's not right for you. [[Applause from the Wing of Mera25]] The truth is reversed, you falsify, you distort it, as you do with the elements of pandemic and the elements of the ESS and with the elements of inflation. On one side, of course, nothing new. Ladies and gentlemen, I will be tempted to share with you a text that has been written for all this a hundred and a half years ago. I read it: "The group of civil order that governs and legislates in parliaments has a direct interest in the government's payout. This state deficit was equal to the object of its speculation and the main source of its enrichment. Every year, a new deficit. After every four or five years and from a new loan and each new loan offers the financial aristocracy a new opportunity to seize the state that is technically held on the brink of bankruptcy and is obliged to negotiate with the bankers under the most unfavourable conditions. The huge sums thus moving through the hands of the state provide additional opportunities for fraudulent procurement, bribes, abuses and all kinds of favorites. The State is being defrauded, as is done roughly with loans, and it is being re-examined in public works. Relations between Parliament and the government are multiplying as relations between separate managements and separate contractors." This text was written in 1850 by Charles Marx, "Travel struggles in France 1848-1850". That is the case, ladies and gentlemen. The more things change the same. I'm taking you to November 1st, 2021 now. Our Prime Minister - your Prime Minister - went to Glasgow a trip to the UN International Conference on Climate Change, COP 26. On Monday 1 November Mr Mitsotakis committed the country to a truly admirable objective, to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 65% by 2030. You're not telling me, did you guys tell you that before he did? Did he get your approval? Has there been a budget? Because, you know, according to our calculation, this will cost a GDP between now and 2030. Where's your budget, Mr. Stakoura, all this? Will you reduce the pollutants by 65% in the coming years and have you not budgeted how you will do so, or will you even throw this into the Recovery Fund? [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] The only way to do this is to have a new carbon tax, which will give clear incentives to both consumers and producers to turn to goods and production methods that reduce pollutants. In order to do so, it needs social and popular acceptance, which means that the poor should not pay. It means that from the new revenues of this coal tax, not a single euro should be kept by the government, redistributed, so that the poorest can buy electric cars, photovoltaics on roofs, strengthen their businesses. On 4 November, three days after Mr Mitsotakis' journey to Glasgow, I asked a timely question - certainly, he never answered me, so he does not respect or respect Parliament - and I asked him the question: Will you include such a redistributive environmental tax in the 2022 budget? Today we get the answer. No, you won't. The "Metsotakis S.A.", ladies and gentlemen, prefers to see our forests become ashes, the planet is being charred, rather than applying such a redistributive tax, which will force people to pay for the green transition. So you will either end up dismissing the many or failing your commitments, Mr Mitsotakis, to the international community or a little of both. But this is Mr. Mitsotakis. Callous reasons abroad, it breaks the country's credibility by undertaking commitments that it does not intend to fulfil. Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, you are not here to listen, but I will tell you that - you are not only undermining the economic viability of our country. By saving the truth, in which you are agitated, you undermine political culture. Whether with the "grek statistics" of ELSTAT and your financial staff, with which you hide from the Greek people the new austerity that the Greek people live on their feet every day, or by insisting on the studies of your own scientific advisers, that the ESS does not need - say - reinforcement, what does it matter if the intact person is in or out of the ICM, or by hiding from the Greek people here the huge cost of your green commitments in Glasgow, which are not included in this budget, or by concealing debts in favour of the oligarchy that you charge to the overlapsed micromedicine, you are revealing as a ruler that you really think this country is your property. You think - and you show it every day - that you do not have the rules of science, of logic, of numbers or of the economy for you. Ladies and gentlemen, this government, this Prime Minister, makes me think that among the ruling classes internationally only in Latin America one can meet a political person more isolated than the citizens. You pay the channels on the Pecha list to show you, Mr. Mitsotakis, as Socrates would say, as an isocrat and so every time you come out on a foreign channel - as happened the other day with Christian Amanpur in "CNN" - you get into it. Do you realize you're breaking up? You have not been trained to have journalists asking you hard questions. What'd you say? 'Principal questions'. You walk around as a porphyry-born Prime Minister who beggs our oldest masters to continue lending you. You tell them, "for our children, they are, we will plunder the coves of the government and do not fear, we will restrain the wrath because we will give some benefits, some tips to the pensioners." Ladies and gentlemen, this budget is an ideal opportunity for us MPs and MPs of the Greek Parliament to assume our responsibility towards the future in reproaching this dangerous government, reproaching the troika-grek statistics, reproaching the national health system, reproaching the new austerity brought about by the accuracy, reproaching the new outbreak of the debt crisis that is before the gates, reproaching the tradition of humiliating ministries such as Health, right-wing, reproaching the waste of our great opportunities for a philosophical green industrial revolution, reproach, ultimately, for your aesthetics, Mr Mitsotakis. Mr Tsipras, we, Merras, do not have the number imposed, which is needed, to table a motion of censure to the government, a motion of censure. You have him. If not now, when?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-18-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr. Varoufakis. The President of Greece, Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-18-S1-commons.u39	Mr President, you also have to table a motion of censure, take you to elections...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-18-S1-commons.u40	This is also called arrogance of the supposedly powerful, because the powerful when falling from above make large 'bam', sir Admiral. So, be careful. Well, riding a reed is good. Being able to ride is the hard part, 'cause you're getting too sick after. This is also apparent from the current absence of the Prime Minister. We cannot discuss the budget and the Greek Prime Minister is absent. It's incomprehensible! Unthinkable! It's tragic! If you honour this, I imagine that Constantine Karamanlis, your beggar, does not honor this behaviour. He doesn't really honor him! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] And this is where the coup d'état of three seems to be. Neither Mr. Tsipras - well, all right now, the helmet is ready - nor the Prime Minister. There's a full-fledged conflict. And the worst - and I would like the President of this House to disprove me - is this: I heard Mr Kaklamani from the Stephen of the House saying that, on today, Mr Tasoula has decided on his own without even being informed of the Conference of Presidents. Incomprehensible things for a Parliament, for a Greece that lives under bankruptcy, under the commission of a man to decide how parliament works when the Conference of Presidents is in existence. Unacceptable things, unconventional, undemocratic! Unfortunately, you're in New Democracy! And now - I'll talk to the Prime Minister, it's okay to be absent anyway, or is it, or it's not in the government of the country, let's not say where - in the rest. Prime Minister, all parties from 1974 until today have identified the state with the party. It's a distorted concept that's reflected in your everyday life. State and party the very same thing, without any differentiation. And here we have the very interpretation of Hesiod - if you know, if you've read some mythology about the State. Do you know who the State was? He was the one who had no feelings, no compassion, no perception, no opinion, and what Zeus said did. And what did the State do? He took the Prometheus who had given the man the fire to warm up and smashed the Prometheus into the Caucasus the State, the unconscious, the unconscious, the unequal, the most mere sympathy. So you are today, your party, your state, without pity, without compassion, without feeling, without humanity that hits the Greek. That's the problem. All parties do that. Only your party audience is served. Just yours. Ten thousand New Democracy praetorians appointed all over secretaries, hospitals. From a hundred fifty, two hundred, five hundred votes put the number down. So you are elected, by smuggling, by theft you take the vote of the Greek people. That's the truth. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Because if they didn't exist, you wouldn't exist. You're transporting cans and you and the rest of the parties of power. That's how you do the Greek today. Whoever isn't yours, you're chasing him, you're imposing fines on him. You're chasing him another way. You're imposing on the indisciplines. You're enforced. That's not a democracy. Enforcement is not a democracy. For the same crimes, however, you are not imposing on your own. Maybe the Greek owes 10,000 euros, you take his house, you take his car. You may owe your friend, the banker, millions of euros, but you make him irresistible and immunity. You may also owe the other your friend any last name and make an amendment to him. He may owe your party - PASOK and New Democracy 600m euros - but I see no confiscation. What state are you talking about, gentlemen of the New Democracy? That's how your general, Constantine Karamanlis, envisioned it? Is that the state he wanted? Just reproduce a vicious, party, authoritarian state. This state will tear it down, you don't want it. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] So let's go to your goal. So your goal is the ultimate prevalence. You don't care how. He may be immoral, he may be succumbing, he may be enforcing, he may be, and I will say it directly, but you want to be, as the State did to Prometheus. I've been watching the evidence from the A.I.E.S. This is what a state we have created and we want education and we want the place to lighten up in any case. This country is not going to go high with your own perception. You have set it up on earth, you have chained Greece and you do not let Greece and the Greek fly. Listen to Athens Medicine has five hundred and fifty LAG members where 30% of teachers are related. Legal, philological, mathematics, is from 10% to 20% related, professional, party or ideological. You are the epitome of partyism in every aspect of state operation. If we do not root out this party's party, the party from the state, Greece will never go forward. But when the state is a spoil of what makes the Greeks' public wealth stumble, what is anyone waiting for? As a spoil you have the state, as a spoil you have Greece. The state called Greece is no-one's spoil, it is the property of the Greek people, it is the property of the Greeks to understand it! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] And I start to understand your budget failure. I'm sick of your lies. I will agree with Mr Brutsi, I do not know if he is here. He said specific things - all the rest of them were homogeneous - in his last paragraph. We'll agree with them in 2022. So I quote, Mr Minister and Prime Minister, twelve proofs of your failure. Firstly, a current trade deficit of 7.9% in 2020. Let's go for worse this year. Secondly, the general government's debt is estimated - and this is the tragic one in any case - at 206% of GDP. Thirdly, unified private sector debt securities and loans, an increase of 14.8%. Fourth, red private debt at EUR 244 billion in July 2021. Fifth, Greece's net international position deteriorated by 20.8% of GDP, i.e. 175% or 290 billion euros. Sixth, the current trade deficit will record the second worst performance since 2011. Seventh, an external debt of EUR 526 billion, July 2021, of EUR 400 billion. Eighth, the central state budget deficit is projected to be less than EUR 10.17 billion in 2022. Ninth, in three years, 41.1 billion euros were lost, 25% of the '20' GDP from losses. We have had the second biggest recession in Europe. Eleventh, the interest of Swaps 2017-2022 is EUR 6,77 billion. Twelfth, there is an increase in taxes to EUR 50 billion in 2022 from EUR 46.5 billion in 2021. They are indicators that are of greater concern now. These are your things, the things of the New Democracy, the successful government of Mr. Stakouras and Mr. Mitsotakis, and they will really lead to the destruction. You know, I'm not an economist, but we have a chosen staff of economists who work nights for specific things. Financial deficit and external balance deficit, inflation and debt pattern. That's a scary problem. ELSTAT: Commercial deficit increased by 23.8% on an annual basis. January '21 to October '21: Inflation in recent months has accelerated. If it continues in 1922, then it will turn a large part of the economic planning into failure. It's over. It will inevitably make the wage connection to market wages. He'll be able to lure the bond yields. Let's go to the cliff, you know? There's a hunger coming, you know? The Greek will be hungry. The Greek is already hungry. Have you understood that? I told the Prime Minister a year and a half ago. It was here. "Go get oil now that's $20 a barrel." It has not gone to take, and now it is asking the European Union to make a common policy - it says - to store oil. But aren't we a little embarrassed? And you're talking about success? One billion euros to buy then, today we would have won EUR 4.5 billion in a year and a year. That means 'I exercise good administration, governance, government policy and I oppose'. Proposals. This is where I came with suggestions. I'll testify it soon. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Friedman, for those you know him, said something specific: "Inflation is a form of taxation imposed without law." That's what you're doing. I'll fill in that he kills the economy and the poor. This is where you tell me about inflation. You will further kill the Greek poor and the Greek small and medium-sized. So let's go to the rest, because the Greek economy is not far from the global economy. Unfortunately, this country since 1974 has not deserved leadership to take over the country's energy decommissioning from the different interests. For example, we never made an extraction of natural gas and oil. Hellas is full of hydrocarbons. I'm stressing it and I'm saying it? Oh, no. The experts say so, but we have a Prime Minister who doesn't want gas and he doesn't want nuclear power, but he wants it to save and well eliminate lignite. We'll soon light a lighter and warm up in our house. That's where you'll end up with Greece. So listen. Energy weapon. Russia is using it. Greece has one, and the Prime Minister doesn't want one. Energy weapon or weapon the food chain from China. China uses it every day. Energy "weapon" or hybrid "weapon" - to better understand it - immigrants from Turkey or illegal immigrants or refugees, as you say, used hybrids. We have a hybrid war worldwide, which is evolving underground and we are lost again because you are making the wrong geoeconomic choices. Problems and sufferings of decades that you have done, you have continued them, and they have been rooted, which you have not touched. You're rising - you say - GDP. How do you increase GDP after you increase our trade deficit at the same time? I mean, I have more money in my fund, but I also have more costs, since I import products. All imported. Our economy is losing out of the competitiveness of EUR 125 billion, foreign debt, in three years' time. Do you understand what we're saying? Do you really understand what's going on in our place? I won't say about the bonds that were ejected, I won't say that they had retreated a hundred base points in the summer and now they're the spreads at seventy-two base points. I won't say these. I'm avoiding them. They're numbers, they're not interested in numbers. What I care about, friends and friends - and I will say it once again - is what escapes your attention. We have the lowest wages in Europe. They can't buy. I have the graph here with the lowest wages. This is Mr. Stakoras, the Prime Minister is missing. How to live a man who has an income of five hundred euros? Do you understand that? Jesus Christ! A little mind to put and say, with six hundred euros, can a man live today, who might even rent, not have a home? Can he survive? He can't survive. To me, my current came 780 euros. I have to pay for it. The other person who gives him 200 euros, 300 euros a month or two, how will he pay them? The per capita GDP in Greece in terms of purchasing power represented 62% of the European Union average. We are - listen - just over Bulgaria. We became Greece communist Bulgaria. Do you understand? Those who were hungry ten, fifteen years ago, and did we get to the point of Bulgaria touching us and telling me about successes and triumphing in here? Every year I hear the same story every year, the same natural persons who are criminals, with economic crimes, triumph and triumph. Listen and I will say it to understand it, said Adam Smith, who is his followers of the New Democracy: 'The sole aim of production is consumption'. So when he wants to produce wealth - it is not Mr Brutsis here - the country must also be able to consume the citizen. There's no way the citizen can consume it. The country doesn't produce, we import, we increase the debt. What's simpler? So, you don't understand that? I have been calling for two and a half years here 'production of wealth' and the proposals are concrete. Let me tell you where you've still failed. You've never pressed red tape. So far there are three and a half thousand investments that you say - they are not the Minister of Development here - and to get an investment you want seven hundred and thirty-six days. Wrong mistakes. You have not served the region so that there are officials to make the proceedings quickly. Tax system? Here's Mr. Staruras. Indeed, Mr Stagiora, if I were a Minister of Finance personally - and I say it directly - the Greek Solution, by copying the German model, would "exploit" all the tax collectors who break down the entrepreneurs. I honestly tell you. Copy the German model. Neither tax evasion will exist as you think, nor will some bad tax collectors take it. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Finally, how to invest when the ministry employee goes and says to him: "Give me EUR 10,000, EUR 20,000 to run above". Or you don't know that, do you? You don't know them? No way. We're in another world. We do not know that! Or we don't know the tax collectors, the bad guys - not everyone - who some of them blackmail people, "I'll find you more, give me something". How can the other one invest, the German or the Italian or the French or the American in Greece, when he knows all this? Personally, I tell you directly, I am ready to withdraw from Greece business. I'm gonna drop all my companies, and the way the job goes, I'm gonna take them abroad. Why? And the IRS is after me, and the S.T.E. is after me, and the E.T.E.R. is after me, because some behind the strings are moving, but most importantly, I can't function in terms - I'm going to say it directly - Tijuana or Sinaloa terms. I can't! Now listen, Mr Stavura and Prime Minister. You made tragic mistakes. Firstly, you have not kept investment programmes and taxation firmly. Go out, my child, you, my Minister, and say: 'The next 15 years will be taxation'. But let's all agree. Let no one touch this plan of corporate taxation. But what are you doing? I'll tell you what. "Seeing and doing" we move on. 'We'll see tomorrow, next year.' I'm changing one tax code, I'm making another, I'm making another. It's not working that way. Secondly, this government has never invested in the best areas of our economy, in specific areas. Primary sector. The Netherlands, Mr Staikoura, has haired my tongue to say, is equal to the Peloponnese and a little larger. It's not more than that. It has a EUR 170 billion primary sector. Our Peloponnese, 170 billion euros! Thirdly, you did not keep the young graduates in the country. Brain Drain. We're all talking about it. Do you know how much it costs? EUR 100 billion in training expenditure and EUR 30 billion in annual GDP. We've lost our kids. It is not only the natural persons who have left, our brothers, our relatives, the Greeks, our demographic problem. It's all we lost, we trained them, and we sent them to work elsewhere. Fourth, low employment by start-up companies in Greece. Check it out. Between 2010 and 2020, EUR 1.34 billion was financed with only three hundred and fifty-nine Greek-owned start-ups. Fifthly, with the funding of the banks - and I say it with soul pain - you have let other airports and Greek loot. The Greek is the collapse of the government account. Fillets, shreds, and Latsy sells them. With loan, Greek, money took it and sells land and is not ashamed, you do not give up, you flagged it and brought bills here for the Greek and you have all voted for it. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Now what does Latsis do? He's making landfills, pilgrims. With seven million euros, whoever gets the plot builds what he wants. I can build a mosque if I want. I can build what I want. Are these your investments? Aren't we a little embarrassed? Six. No investment in the primary sector. Seventhly, we are the only country in Europe, you have achieved it - those who have been absent for a lifetime anyway - anyway, you are preparing to go along with KINAL, and SYRIZA, who has ruled for four and a half years. We are the only country in Europe that does not produce a single bolt for a car or a car bolt. All European countries are building something. Replacement, something specific. Nothing. Where are we going like this? Where are we going like this? Eighth, you're making leg laws, son. Leg and inapplicable. For example, a bankrupt out-of-court settlement. Thousands could be fleeing. The arrangement was only in forty. He failed. Tax credits, EUR 4.3 billion unpaid taxes in ten months. There's no money for the Greeks to pay. You failed energy too. Your biggest crime. And this will be a life for you as a government. And the previous ones. You abolished lignites. Remove natural gas, remove oil research. Yesterday, the Prime Minister. We call you nuclear energy and you say 'no'. You say 'no'. Let's go and say they play economists. I'm reading to you what the Italian Minister for the Ecological Transition says in Italy, Roberto Cingolani. What they're hiding the means you're paying for not telling them. It's disgusting to you all. "Nuclears will certainly be part of the European classification of sustainable funding. They've already predicted it. It's a source that doesn't produce carbon dioxide. A week ago the European Union included nuclear energy and gas between energy sources which are useful for the green transition. When will the Prime Minister or Minister lie? When will you lie to the Greek people? It was discussed in the European Union. Greek journalists hide it for both nuclear and natural gas. And you're still supporting this government? Even now you're supporting this government, these ministers? Really? Are we serious? The Italian Minister for the Environment is talking about natural gas and nuclear energy. And we have the Prime Minister, we have the Minister who wants neither natural gas, nor lignites, oil, nuclear physics, no energy, nothing. We'll warm up with lighters. The bad news is that the lighter needs energy too to be done. We don't produce lighters either. No more matching. This is the downside of the Greek economy. We are coming to talk about the budget that is a budget for the loan and the country's overcompensation. That's the truth. All the budgets in recent years have been the overtaxation of the country. It's the country's overcompensation. Listen to him. Really. The New Democracy MPs are not to blame. The MPs have nothing to do with it. And I'm saying it right away. The Members of Parliament are observing the party line. Some people talk. The ministers go out and not just talk, live outside Greece, really. I'm listening. I read the first Minister's statement. "2022 will be an extremely good financial year. And maybe the best we've ever lived. We have the greatest recovery in history." Minister of the New Democracy on a channel. What's the truth? A decade's record was broken, inflation in 4.8%, 180% increase in natural gas, 45% in oil, 37% in electricity and a whole lot of consumer goods increases. So, where does that man live? Second statement. He's also provocative. He said "prices will last until holidays." How does he know and he says it on TV and people hear it? Will he call and order the markets "Look no more up the natural gas?". Are we serious? Is that a serious policy? Third Minister's statement: 'except for energy costs there is no real increase in any product in Greece'. Really? Does that man not even have basic knowledge of the economy? And he's Mr. Mitsotakis' Minister? Because basic knowledge tells you 'enlargement is increasing, goods are increasing'. What's simpler than that? And yet, they're coming out on the channels. They are hosted by the well-known Silver journalists, who take them anyway from their bosses or their bosses, and take them from the government for various programs. Fourth statement. Project Greek. Mr. Georgiadis and Mr. Stagiras came here and they called us "Here the Greek". Radiators. We will do that, we will do that." And we're not a little embarrassed. He cuts it into fillet and sells it to private people? Did you know that? The company made a announcement yesterday. He made an announcement. Let the Minister make it clear that there will be no land. Let him say here, by name: "There will be no plots of Greek". But still with these? So - I repeat - will you support the economy? I don't know. I'm really wondering. The public property of the Greek people was sold for the emblematic project - a plan, that is - and ends up making plots with counter-comparability. Landings in the sea we used to say, in the 1970s and the '60s and it was on the mountains and each Greeks took a house. Fifth choice and statement. I will give you a simple example: For health reasons, he says, the ski resorts in northern Greece will be closed. It already snows. The Fall, for example, closed it in Drama. Okay, there's a pandemic. And the Bansko next door is treasured by Greeks. It's full of Greek tourists who go and touch them there. But we're talking about pheasies now. Are we in the European Union? To take the same measures for everyone. Not to name the Bulgarians in Bansko and the Greeks in Fallar, the Greek in Kaikaktsalan, the Greek in the three Pante Pigadias or down here in Athens, or where it has snow, can't make a cut. But your choices are ridiculous. The development of winter tourism. What can I say? Here, see, to understand who you are. Because I'm talking with evidence, and I'm really wondering. Ask us about a project at Drones P.O. to the relevant Minister. Listen, to a competent minister. I won't tell you who, it doesn't matter. The man has five partners. We tell him the evidence, normally, and he tells us "very well what you say to us, we don't know what you mean". At the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki they make drones, normally drones and war drones, and our Minister responds - it is in the Minutes - that "we don't know, we don't know the subject". So many lazy people do you have in ministries, slow-wage, so many posters you've hired, one can't find these? But is this a serious state? Let's go to our suggestions now. I guess not, we're gonna go a little bit on the loan. Mr Stavoura, you know - your journey is not a personal one - I honor you as a person, but I have learned in my life that the person who is being borrowed is incapable of producing wealth. And you are a government that you are constantly lending, as are previous governments. A government that constantly borrows leads to overcompensation throughout the country, our children, our grandchildren and our grandchildren. You do nothing to produce wealth. All you produce - I'll tell you directly - are deficits. Continuingly produce deficits. You don't have a schedule. All you want to do is borrow, not plan for it, though. And you want proof? It's been a long time. We avoided her in the lacquer with our loan. Already the European Union seems to allow us to borrow for another few months. Then what? They're pulling us out of QE. How will the country be borrowed outside QE? You tell me, at what rate, Mr. Stakoura, if we go out in a year? Tell the Greek people to learn. At what rate will Greece borrow and how to borrow if they get us out of QE. If the European Central Bank, that is, in total - I say - does it not commit to helping us? Tell me. In order for the Greek people to understand what interest rate they will pay along the way and with inflation, at the same time as the FED operator's statement that we will have an interest rate rise next year. He said it the other day. The government, therefore, of Mr Stakoura and the Prime Minister, has borrowed EUR 42,000,000 with the following objectives: To absorb the vibration from the pandemic. Is that correct? That's right. Secondly, to prevent the risk of financial stability. Thirdly, banks should support businesses and households in the crisis and at the start of the economy. All targets have failed. We have dead in the pandemic, we don't have IDs, we don't have primary care, the companies are in danger of closure and the worst of all? The Greek banking system, which could be the blood donor of businesses, has been left behind. It's on the edge of bankruptcy. Serve as government - to say raw - not Greek citizens, but only your friends bankers. You are not serving Greek citizens and Greek businessmen. And I'll prove it to you to understand it. Now here's what's going on. The basic client account of systemic banks is two thousand large businesses. All Greek banks have two thousand companies they lend. The little ones? There aren't any. There are no banks! The other goes to get a loan of 50,000 euros, 100,000 euros to make a, refinancing you want, an extension you want, and they don't give him a loan. There goes your airtight friend, without bail, with nothing, and they pull him a haircut, even though he's in Panama Papers the master written. They're your buddies. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] [[Noise in the Chamber]] Who asked? Panama Papers? Who has the Bank already cut off - if I'm not mistaken - Piraeus? It starts from ‘P’ and ends in ‘S’. Do you want me to tell you the name? Piladakis. We're not afraid to call names. Your best friends are all of them. Your pals! Just stuff. There are others, it's not just him. To God! This is one of your many friends, who are served, but many Greeks are not served. On this, then, we will stand across, you will serve the Greek citizen and not the oligar. Stop it! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] What haircut? The casino that the gentleman had. He's a Kazinar. So I don't get any more tired of you. Greece, friends and friends, has received EUR 120 billion in the last few years from the European Union. To understand your wrong practice, the EUR 120 billion we got you know where they went? The EUR 51.3 billion went abroad, mainly in Germany, because they went to buy machinery and raw materials. In other words, we take EUR 120 billion and the EUR 51 billion we give it back to them again. You realize you're wrong? In order for the EUR 120 billion to remain here, Greece must produce, Greece must create wealth. If it doesn't create wealth, it creates debt. How much more simple can I say? Of the hundred applications, Mr Staikoura, the financing of small and medium-sized enterprises, the eighty are not approved, the sixty are loss-making, sixteen have no sustainable plans and four have a negative picture. SAFE research data from the Commission, European Central Bank: 81% of Greek enterprises found support from state programmes. That is, our country is borrowing to give loans - a good choice, Mr Stakoura, we had to help businesses - but Greece is borrowing again, and it gives them to bankers too. I mean, the bankers' money that I borrow as a Greek citizen is taken by the bankers and do whatever they want. No, it's not like that. If the government, if we guarantee the bankers that they will be liquid, we will oblige them to channel it to the real economy, to the real market, not to their friends. To end the fairy tale! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] The Greek banks charge the highest commissions. There's no that! They have the biggest spreads, that is, we're talking about a banking problem, with huge diseases and when the banking system has a problem, Minister - because you know financially - you know what that means. Let me tell you what it means. It means collapse. The banks are really the donors of what a country could do to get growth. I won't say about oil, I'm tired. The Italian Minister has disproved you and I say once again to the Greek people that the New Democracy is lying about energy costs. It could be cheap invoiced by the Greeks, cheap invoice by the merchant, cheap invoice, the man who has a shop. He's always lying about energy, and he keeps lying! The Italian revealed to you yesterday, he said it. Well, since you're not capable, I'm going to say something very simple to end this story. In front of me, Minister, because you do not have the plan, the programme, I have brought one of the twelve proposals that we have been making to you for too long. In order not to bore you, I will submit them to the Minutes of the House. First proposal for an energy solution and how it can come down to 70% below the energy cost in our country to help the economy. The second is tourism development, how can Greece, my Minister, develop tourism. Not like you did, it's wrong. And I'd explain it to you if I had more time. This is a whole study. Experts made her. Not these people, the partymen, who you collect from here and there, you pay them wages, so-called experts, but they are irrelevant. Study for the management of water resources in the agricultural sector. It's the alpha and the omega. Water resources. I'm filing it in the Minutes. Study to upgrade the national civil protection plan. Another seven studies I have occasionally testified in the Minutes of the House. I give them to the government for just one reason. Because she doesn't have a plan, she doesn't have a plan, and I hope she gets it, copy it, so that the place can go forward, or we'll go to Kaidas, go to the cliff. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Because I insist for a long time that you will confront, I will tell you something, Mr Stavoura and Prime Minister. We were telling you to go and do an examination of the betrayal of Skopje. "Pressors" you told them gentlemen. That's what you told them. Let's go to an exam. You didn't. We told you about the Matty, "You burned them, you murdered them, you made them people, you left them there", we're going for an exam. You didn't do it, you covered them. We were telling you about the EUR 100 billion that Mr Varoufakis said, we were going for an examination, you did not, you covered them. But you're not government, you're - I'm going to say it directly - the people you're covering up the crimes of others, so you're moral perpetrators of Skopje crimes, in Matty and natural perpetrators are the others. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] And I'll say something else, so that I can complete it, so that the Greek people can understand that you are in conflict, it seems. We've been having an ITH thing lately. I will not say whether the Prime Minister knew or did not know about me is - I repeat - that the Prime Minister knew about it and we all know it, but what I have not understood yet is why you are continuing to make statements on a matter which she exposes the government. And I'll do a smaller analysis later. Mr. Stavura, would you like to be economically successful as Minister of Finance? Copy successful models, Russia, Poland, Hungary! They apply specific models. What are these models? They had industry, we don't have industry, but to get to do industry they had patriotic national protectionism. Protect Greek products! Protect Greek production! You're imposing duties! You impose - and I will say it directly - bans on imported like products! It's done with quality control - I've said it a thousand times - in products. The Netherlands did it with the raisin. The Netherlands stopped the raisin from Turkey because it had pesticides. We are also giving you proposals, but, unfortunately, you are not listening. And I'm also going to tell you now how you're going to compete as a country, Minister, who? The Netherlands. Listen: Its production is EUR 29 billion, it exports EUR 117 billion. Here's what Holland does, the Peloponnese, the small one, the Greek one - little bigger, of course - EUR 29 billion production, EUR 117 billion exports. It makes EUR 117 billion, second in the world for food exports, the Netherlands, our Peloponnese! Who failed? Tell me who failed to become a small Netherlands! You tell me! You from here, you from there less and they here more, Change Movement, New Democracy and a little SYRIZA for four and a half years! That's the truth, and we'll tell the truth. We could export billions of euros of products as a country, the best water we have, the best climate, less air pollution. We have strategic advantages, but we are also dealing with people who are only looking at how to get wind turbines from Greece. What can I say? I don't know. Listen to tourism: Greece covers 15% of the needs in tourism, Italy 75%. Who failed, my Minister? Who failed to do that, too? Because you never linked tourism to quality tourism. Every wacko with the nail - not to say - from outside the sock comes to Greece and you think it's a tourist. You laugh, Mr. Stakoura, but that's what it is, 200 euros, seven, eight days! You're going to Italy, you've gone, I guess, right? That's your challenge, I know! I have been filled with challenges in the New Democracy, everything is "our challenge, our challenge!". But it's not your challenge. You are provoking your inability, however, that is the problem of implementing a project. Tourism, shipping, is a major sector. Look, Mr Stakoura, proposals: How do I, Mr Stakoura, compete with other countries? Here is the big, very big issue for me. Listen: Poland, the state has a central role to play in economic development, launched targeted projection of twenty selected sectors, identified the problem of low domestic investment in combination with the small number of innovative companies, symptom of a dependent economy. Poland, therefore, from EUR 440 billion in 2009, which had GDP, Mr Stakoura, went to EUR 594 billion. Do you understand the number? Greece has gone from EUR 355 billion to EUR 189 billion. Who's to blame for the collapse? Let me tell you: you, you and you, all of you! Depression! How can this happen when I make a company, Mr. Stakoura, listen to me! I'm being chased by the taxi, I'm being chased by the clerk who doesn't give me the papers, I'm being chased by the policeman, the firefighter, everybody chasing me. Do you want examples? Cyprus. The European Union, Mr Stavoura, is not Cyprus? It is. Corporate taxation at 12.5% on net profits. The dividends of Cypriot companies are not taxed, the distribution of profits from companies to shareholders and foreign investment dividends. Profit on sale of securities - excluding shareholders - is excluded from any tax. Tax losses shall be carried over to the next five years. The Cypriot companies are not offshore. We're going to Romania. Mr Stavoura, listen, in Romania with a turnover of EUR 1 million for every type of SAR, the company is considered to be a small company, a 1% to 3% tax, on the turnover. That's where I'm going! You won't take the money from me. That's where I'll go! One million euros, 1% to 3% tax on the turnover! And you have done it to me, I will directly, the pimps of the Greek businessmen who take everything, not you personally, into this system. Bad tax system! Romania, a turnover of 1 million euros tax of 1% to 3% of the turnover if the company does not have an employee, a tax of 3%. We're talking about incredible things. If he has an employee, even the owner, 1% tax. How am I going to compete with this country? Tell me about you, you, you! There's more, there's Bulgaria. I can tell you a lot of things. We told you about bang-bang. I would like to ask the Minister of Economy: do you know when the bang-bang happened in Greece? Kind of like a bang-bang. Does anyone know in here? PASOK did it. Remember the OAE? In 1978, firms in difficulty. There's been something similar. But then you put presidents and CEOs on some kind of PASOK lame, who screwed up at the end. It could work. Bang-bang could work. Something similar do, bang-bang, what America did in 1930. Pick up the red loans and we can make a profit and as a state, and people will not lose their homes. What can I say? I don't know, we've made so many suggestions for you. So here, I'll tell you something very simple about us in the Greek Solution. There is no national sovereignty without economic independence and you have led Greece as a subordinate country in this matter, in bankruptcy! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] So we tell you that there are solutions, there are proposals. I've given them to you one by one. But I would like, by closing, to talk about the coronary as well. I appeal to the Greek people. And the case of Mr Chiodra, who suddenly became a sacrifice. How did this 'good lamb' become a sacrifice and take him north, along with the other, Mr Lytra? I don't get it. We'll see it along the way. Channels and journalists are getting rich in pandemic. So a good reason why no one should believe what the channels say is him. It's that they live from the pandemic. The journalists and the channels, these crows - not all - live from the pandemic, through the money they get themselves and their channels. In short, there must be pandemic to cover the government’s nonexistence and cover the rich children called journalists and canalarchs. Do you know what happened with the Chiodra report? I'll tell you something very simple. I disagree with expressions of the "killer" type, etc., to God! In the Greek Parliament, it is unacceptable to hear, but Mr Tsipras' reflexes have given me a special interest. Because, all of a sudden, in one day, we changed the agenda, we erased Kurubli, it's all right, it's over. No, it's not over. Human souls have been lost, people have been lost, our friends, our acquaintances. It's someone's fault. Let the Prime Minister look for who's to blame. Is it the committee's fault? I'll say it raw, if it's the ones who advised him to take them all out. But if he knew and hid it, something's wrong. He keeps lying about doing government work. And I say this, Minister. Intensive ones are filled, the intensive ones are really filled and you are afraid to confess. What's that? The problem isn't many patients. We don't have a lot of patients and a lot of cases, you're wrong. The problem is, the meths you calculate are not real. Why? I'll tell you. Because seven thousand people prosecuted them. Because there's no personal. Why would a doctor go to an ID, he'll get 1,200 euros - do we have a doctor in here? - abroad gets 5,000 euros. Is it a fool to sit here? He's going out again. Am I wrong? How are you gonna put a I.T.O. without any staff? Give me a thousand ICUs, no doctors. He won't tell me anything. He doesn't say anything. I'm not talking about the ranches that exist anyway. We're making fun of the world. They die in the hallways. That's true, it's not a lie. Mrs. Pagony said so. It was yours, New Democracy, that kept the flag of New Democracy in Mr. Georgiadis' office - I don't know if you'd seen it - and Mrs. Linos, Mr. Papandreou. Nice scientist kids, huh! Flags! What's that thing? Nice scientists, and I'll consult them. Are we serious? Is that a state? I honor their scientific, if you like, quality, but it is not a state. We don't have equipment, we don't have enough staff. Seventeen thousand five hundred doctors have migrated. You know that? We're talking about seventeen thousand five hundred doctors who left! They didn't leave alone. You kicked them out, you and you! You kicked them out! We studied them with Greek money and sent them out to work! With 1,300 euros, who's gonna work? Listen. Stop provoking the Greek people. Yesterday, from a step of the House, I heard the Prime Minister's counsel, the Minister of State, Mr. Scarcho, provoke. Is it possible to say "What if we were to know or not about the Chiodra - Lytra study is indifferent"? Is that what I'm saying? Mr. Stavura, is this thing called? Is it indifferent if we knew about the study? "Don't try to raise a minor issue" is analgesia. Pick them up! Pick them up! It's analgesia! Is it indifferent to know whether or not the Prime Minister knew? I think he didn't know. I want to believe that he didn't know well. To dismantle all the committees, all his advisers, to believe him. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] It doesn't work anymore! If he can't do that and he has problems, I'll say raw, go to elections because you're all hostages, and the MPs and the ministers and the Prime Minister! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Take the country to elections, so you can finally get the Greek people's vote if you deserve it! That's enough! And I'll close here. You made the Greek spectators. As Palamas said - I will make a little mention - "The blue sky has been tanned from the crows, both local and foreign, who are walking around the dying dead." "That's how he became this once flamed people," Kostis Palamas wrote many decades ago. So, to this people who have a flame, we're going to resurrect the flame and burn the lie, it's going to burn all those unpleasant things that you and the rest of you have done! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that you have confused patriotism. patriotism is not ideology. Don't be fooled in here. patriotism is a feeling. You either have him or you don't have him. It's love for the country. patriotism is not an abstract ideology that we are looking for. It is the zeal to defend freedom and democracy. Greece is an existential need for patriotism. The rise of patriotism in power is a one-way way to achieve Greece and the Greeks. And the Greek Solution is exactly this solution, the real one. First Greece, first Greeks! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] And because you are talking about freedom in New Democracy with vaccines, I will tell you this: Great Thucydides, this great historian, that the secret of happiness is freedom and the secret of freedom is courage. You have not been happy to make the Greeks and you have no courage to face the truth! So we ask you again to keep Greece up, to keep your political dignity, your own and your resignation upright. If you cannot govern, then, we ask for elections! If you can't give solutions, at last karate those who lied. The only solution is for the elections to leave the size of the problems. Greece or it will be over! Today you became her for gratitude. Don't finish it! Everything comes to Kimran's saying "The nation should be sorry if he wears no cloth, if he eats but not his crops, if he drinks wine, but not his plate." This is the Greece of today! You made Greece begging, begging loan. She doesn't deserve that. We want a Greece proud, a Greece of national independence, a Greece of economic dominance, which starts with the economic prosperity of the Greeks and runs and travels all over Greece, a Greece that will belong to the Greeks, as well as the Macedonia that you have given! I'm presenting for the minutes the documents I've given you before.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-18-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr. Velopoulos. Mr Velopoulos, I would like to make a clarification of what you said at the beginning of your speech. The Conference of Presidents, in which all the parties and your own parties participated, decided on the last day, namely today, that only the Heads of Parliament's groups should speak in reverse. The first day of the budgetary debate, as you know, is the decision of the Conference of Presidents on the procedure, following the proposal made by the Conference in plenary. The former President, Mr Voutsi and Mr SYRIZA asked that there should be other speakers on the last day, and the President-in-Office at the time was Mr Kaklamanis, he also proposed that the House should have a second part of the parliamentary delegations. The House at the time, in other words, decided today's procedure and not the President of the House individually. This has been the case for restoring the truth and because all the groups are present here.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-18-S1-commons.u42	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-18-S1-commons.u43	Here, Mr. Velopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-18-S1-commons.u44	Then disprove Mr. Nikita Kaklamanis who said that before you, I said so.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-18-S1-commons.u45	No, I don't...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-18-S1-commons.u46	I'm answering. What I've carried is what Mr. Kaklamanis said.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-18-S1-commons.u47	What I said is the ones that apply.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-18-S1-commons.u48	Then if the Bureau disagrees with each other, imagine what the government does.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-18-S1-commons.u49	I don't know. I don't know what was distributed and I don't think that's what happened. The President-in-Office simply said this morning that the process that will be followed today is the one that is being followed so that we do not leave peaks which are not true. The President of the Parliamentary Group and Secretary General of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Dimitrios Koutsoubas, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-18-S1-commons.u50	We must recognise to you in the New Democracy and to you in SYRIZA that you have been trying to bring the debate to your attention for so many days now. Even such a debate, such as the one on the state budget, which is offered to make a more substantial confrontation and a world to perhaps draw some conclusions on the policy, the positions of the parties, you have tried to bring it to the attention of your polluting confrontation. Well done for both of us! We will, however, insist on highlighting the main political issues relating to the budget. We will insist on the fundamental political confrontation with arguments rather than the populist Mitsotakis, Tsipras and other followers of yours here, in this categorisation. A year ago the New Democracy Government said: "We have eaten the donkey, be patient, the vaccine comes, and then we return to normality." Now who ate the donkey, we're talking about it. Well, the vaccine came, but the pandemic didn't leave. It's here even more murderous and we're having the same conversation about the self-evident things you deny. We, ladies and gentlemen of the government, do not think that the budget you have tabled and you will be voting on today is out of place and time, as the Civic Opposition stands at your expense. The state budget is within, more often within, the demands of different business groups in Greece at a given point in time to guarantee their enormous profits, while the people are suffering. That is why your celebrations on the high growth rate have also been extended, and the assurances that they will continue. Close the eye to the few of capital, which expect security for their investments and other guarantees for their profits and develop false expectations for the workers, to the people that this growth will be for everyone. We hear you say that Greece has the greatest recovery in Europe, the greatest decline in unemployment, the greatest reduction in poverty. In order not to talk about how the unemployment that is now suffices to work a few hours a week is measured and to be regarded as a normal worker. So that we do not ask what a mess you have put in and measure poverty, that is, the minimum level of elementary survival. So let us talk about the high recovery rates you say. Where did they come from? The greatest recovery in Europe, for which you are halved, is the result of the continuation, maintenance and escalation of the anti-population attack. You caught the thread from where the SYRIZA government left it and you keep going. Do you want to remind you of the established hunger wages? The take-off of flexibility in labour relations? The unpaid overtime? Setting working time? The teleworking, this new form of exploitation? Do you want to talk about all the anti-gauge arsenal that increases the exploitation of workers, of course, a basic condition for your capitalist development? We know that you don't like these woods, the repetitives, but the exploitation of how else do you say it? Unless you choose to play dumb-ass like some old-fashioned punk in the media. This, the greatest recovery in Europe you are advertising, is the result of provocative support for strong capital shares with new incentives and new privileges. Do you want to remind you of the successive reductions in company taxation, direct subsidies through various financial packages and development laws, the reduction of their insurance contributions? The list, of course, when it comes to supporting capital, does not end. Do you want to talk about the Hatzidakis law? You can be proud of him, of course. This is an emblematic law in terms of both the escalation of the anti-grass attack and the support of the oligarchy of wealth. But be careful. "He laughs well who is laughing at the last" says our people. And lately, your laughter has been cut off, especially where the workers with their struggle have inactivated this negligent law. However, the greatest recovery in Europe, according to your assessments, is far too far away to reach even the pre-crisis level. At 2019 level, it will reach the first half of 2022, if it all evolves smoothly. In fact, the same estimates told you that it took a decade more to reach the 2008 level, somewhere in 2032. In other words, "live me May to eat a clover". And all this - I repeat - if everything develops smoothly, which is impossible in this system, impossible for capitalism. Because in a system that is full of controversy, competition, it is funny to talk about normality, much more so that the Greek economy is not in glass. So hold on a second. Aren't you worried about China's slowing down, about the tension between the US and China, other centers? A strife that most likely has an impact on the grand investment plans that you are expecting in Greece. Are you not seriously concerned about the International Monetary Fund's estimates of a new slowdown in the economy and social uncertainty? Are you not concerned about exacerbation within the European Union, especially between Germany and France? The dialogue that strengthens the path of inflation and interest rates? The confrontation of what fuel will become the most famous green transition, but also the revision of the Stability and Recovery Pact? So, take a little tons, because all these are factors which create serious uncertainties for the next day, which only pink is not for workers. Ladies and gentlemen, this year's state budget is made up of the same or similar anti-grassroots materials that have been drawn up and all the budgets of all the previous governments. It's a deep anti-lingual budget, classic. After all, the state budget is the main tool for the implementation of the governments' economic policy. In time it is the means of redistributing at the expense of many and for the benefit of the few. So the budget for 2022 could not escape these general principles. It is an anti-grass budget, because while it is predicted that tax revenue will increase by EUR 3.5 billion and reach EUR 50 billion, the lion's share of this increase will come from the indirect taxes, which will increase by EUR 2 billion. In short, this increase in tax revenue will mainly come out of the pockets of workers, the people of the toil. They are mainly borne by the indirect, the most unfair taxes. It is a classic budget, because the total tax revenue, i.e. tax burdens, is essentially charged to the people's backs, while, on the contrary, for the large business units, despite the increase in their profits, a friendly share of the symbolic levels of 5% is predicted. This friendly involvement of large companies in tax revenues is becoming even more challenging if one thinks that workers and popular strata carry on their backs the burdens which have been charged since the memorandum period, while large companies enjoy new provocative tax exemptions, are benefiting from continuous reductions in their taxation. Is it or is it not a challenge to have a constitutionally regulated tax exemption for shipowners, all those who do not know what they have and to record a new historical record in profits, shipbuilding and ship purchases this year? It is unnecessary, I imagine, to remind you that the JRC's proposal to abolish this provocative tax exemption at last - in the recent constitutional review - you all rejected it, and you in the New Democracy - alas! - and you in SYRIZA and you in PASOK - KINAL. Is it not a challenge that any of the governments did not apply the articles of the law imposing a special tax on immovable legal persons, which, according to the reports of the General Accounting Office of the State, would put about EUR 4 billion into the State Treasury, while, contrary to its position, the unfair anti-grassier HISHA is imposed, whose income is around EUR 2.5 billion? And don't tell us again about the reductions to HNBS made by the Government of New Democracy! One way to get the people’s family out of their rocks to pay rent in their own home and that’s just his definitive abolition. Nor for bio-family farmers can the economy with what you are telling us. You give them "fly" and you advertise them for "carpets" when production costs are high and producer prices at tartars. No replacement to what you grabbed them with the memorials and the consequences of the pandemic. To counteract the consequences of the pandemic on agricultural production was only about 1% of the total package in 2021 and zero in 2022. As regards the reductions in the excise oil tax, only 50 million are provided for farmers, cooperatives and new entrants, and before 2017 it was over 150 million. You're way behind their needs! Nor, of course, have you accepted the obvious, that small professionals should not be taxed from the first euro, and that they should be taxed. I am thinking of all these small businessmen who are fighting with debts, old and new, now with the extremely expensive raw materials - which are "speaking" income - and the escalation of energy costs with accounts, which are now more than 50%. Obviously, and for them, the economy can't stand it! Ladies and gentlemen, your budget is anti-grassrooted, and this is reflected in expenditure, which concerns benefits for workers, pensions, health and education. So tell us why, despite the increase in GDP, which you have made as a sign of, but also the increase in tax revenue, there remain frozen expenditure on critical people's needs. What about pensions? You see, the SYRIZA Katrugalo law and its continuity, the law on "jobbing" the insurance policy, has taken care of this. For education, obviously, you are counting on the new school you want to shape, where everything will be sold and everything will be bought and gradually hopefully you will be exempted from the obligation to finance the education of the children of the people as it has to do. But for health, what excuse do you have? When under conditions of a new even more murderous pandemic wave, from everywhere the need to strengthen public health is shouting, and you have the nerve to bring in a budget with reduced costs for hospitals and primary health care. To strengthen public hospitals and not talk. Here, with the new ESS, you have dared to speak even about the closure of certain hospitals. The primary health care that remains essentially nonexistent in your view should not be strengthened, but obviously for you and this is unnecessary luxury and all of this, while you know very well how a staffed, equipped, integrated primary health care could make a substantial contribution to the decongestion of hospitals nearby throughout Greece and not just now with pandemic. You are not talking about the fact that it could also make a great contribution to the implementation of the vaccination programme, through the effective information and the prevention and monitoring of vaccinated animals. And then you move the finger of individual responsibility. You cost her 100 euros a month already. Really, how much do you say the people have to cost your own individual and collective responsibilities? Your turn will come sooner or later! And don't smile, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, these responsibilities concern you too. So what's to do with people's needs is encamped, frozen, reduced. But what relates to the needs of the groups, the so-called green digital switchover there instead, we see a significant increase in state expenditure. I will give it with a distinctive example to make the opposition more understandable. In one of the most central hospitals in Athens, such as the "Pamakaristos" Hospital, for which you have certainly not given a penny in order to cover the enormous shortages in infrastructure, staff, with the risk of closing a clinic, as recruitments have taken place since 2010, recently approved an NSRP budget of about EUR 3 million for the energy upgrade of this hospital's building. In short, there is money for green energy business that hierarchies capital to gain, but for doctors, nurses, medical equipment, not 1 euro! Are you telling us the time the world dies a priority is the energy 'green' upgrade of the building and not the recruitment of staff, and the creation of infrastructure for beds, ICUs and others? Whether we are talking about green business or about the management of the pandemic and the golden jobs that private health does, your clinical priorities are the plans of the few groups, ensuring their profits. For these green business projects, funding from the respective ministries is tripled and quadruple. We have heard some Members of the government taking this dangerous logic further. They also said, 'Well, from here, all the other things you say, but the expenditure on armaments must be voted on by all the parties, all together, as a fist, because they concern defence, protection, security of the country'. Yes, sir. In other words, you are baptizing defence and security the aggressive designs of your American allies of NATO, France, Germany and others. What security and peace defend the over seventy aggressive helicopters and almost a thousand pieces of equipment from the American ship that tied to the port of Alexandroupolis? Armys of Americans have landed on Greek territory in Alexandroupolis, and you speak as if they were coming for some educational trip. Incidentally, of course, they move towards Eastern Europe, the Balkans, the Black Sea, where Russia's naval encircling plans are unfolding, pouring oil into the fire of competition that burns in the region and threatens the people. A total of 7.5 billion will be provided from the 2022 budget for the American needs, for your great efforts to upgrade the role of the country's ruling class, the various major businessmen, the same ones we talked about before, to become'regional players', as the Prime Minister recently said. There will be 7.5 billion dollars! Let them wonder - not you, but the workers who are listening to us - how many intakes of health could be made to save lives? How many recruits of teachers could be made to prevent our children from stacking in rooms of twenty-seven and twenty-eight students? How much and how much could be done for the needs of the people and their children, for increases in pensions, wages, for reinstatement of the thirteenth and fourteenth pensions, wages and so many others? Yesterday I was at the Immigration Service in Petrou Rally, which covers a huge area of the center and of western Athens. Few employees are trying to serve hundreds of thousands of immigrants who are suffering to get the papers of the legal residence permit or its renewal. And that's because there's a lack of staff. There's no provision from the budget here. And today is the World Immigration Day, which you are supposed to honor. We support the call of workers in the field there at the Immigration Service for the permanentization of contractors, for new recruitments they need, for the improvement of equipment, for computers, for dealing with the problem with the archiving of tens of thousands of files, etc. What will happen, too, with the eighty thousand seasonal workers in tourism who have not received an unemployment fund, why have the suspension not been given? How are these people gonna make holidays? Two thousand out of two thousand in foodism, because no protection was foreseen now for the coronary, for the pandemic. Two hundred thousand of our fellow humans without any income. Along with everything else, the anti-grassroots and classic of the budget is also revealed by the comparison of only two sizes. What does the government say? It says that in 2022 real GDP will rise by 4.5% compared to 2021. At the same time, however, the average real wage will show a marginal change of only 0.2%. In other words, workers are getting smaller and smaller. Another proof that social inequalities are widening, as in all the capitalist world, whether they govern neoliberal, social-democratic, centre-right or central-left, as they are told, whether they belong to the Socialist International and Socialist European Party, such as the PASOK and as an observer, SYRIZA, or to the international liberalism and the European People's Party such as the New Democracy. It is characteristic that the annual world list of billionaires contains a list of just two thousand seven hundred seventy-five people from billions around the world. These people have total wealth of 13.1 trillion dollars, which has increased since last year by 62%. We also hear the criticism that SYRIZA makes you. You have no complaint. It suits you because it leaves to the unpredictable core of your policy with which, beyond individual differences, it is identical. It is convenient for all of you that SYRIZA's criticism that your policy is responsible for the widening of social inequalities, which he promises will reduce his own governance. How? But, with the further capitalist development, it clarifies, as is its idealists in the rest of Europe of progressive is supposed to be governance. In other words, he, too, presents the very source of the problem. The myth that from a capitalist development is all won - both industrialists and their workers and shipowners and bankers and poor populaces - has long collapsed. It is also this well-known fairy tale that stirs up the current government officials: to grow the pie - that is, wealth - to get a bigger part of the worker. The pie, however, often grew up, but for the workers, at the most, some crumbs were intended. The greatest inequality in Greek society is among those who work to raise the pie, the producers of wealth, that is, the majority of the people, and those who ultimately steal it, that is, a small minority, a handful of parasites. And that inequality keeps growing. SYRIZA's concern about social inequalities, which he shares with various civil servants, also hides something else. The concern of no one and the threat of political stability. It is no coincidence, moreover, that it has made the consent, so that social cohesion is not threatened, as it says. Gentlemen of the government have reminded you many times these days of the MPs of the Officerial Response who spoke. They offered you simple consent and you in New Democracy refused it. We, you see, do not confuse the great, hollow words of populism, of insults, of fascination and of all that they use for a short time of publicity by anti-population officials, such as Kurublis yesterday, who also comes from the deep PASOK. That is why the poor Mr Tsipras and SYRIZA are in fact different: no social cohesion is disturbed and political stability is threatened. And, of course, it's not for you. The teams are taking tests. He cares about them. Because no matter how hard things and the connections that are negative, you have not even stopped worrying for all of you, to shake off the popular anger and indignation that as much as it strengthens, it will become a river of guts and it will lure you, especially when the people decide to fight not just for a change in the managership of this system or the other government, but for a change in total of the dominance, the ruling class. Ladies and gentlemen, it is indeed convenient for you to criticise SYRIZA for increasing the minimum wage. Of course, there is an urgent and immediate need to increase the minimum wage bravely. We're not talking about it. However, do we also have to discuss some other issues that are directly related to what will eventually be in the worker's pocket, what will happen to the average wage in each industry, what will happen with the reduction of the non-wage costs that SYRIZA has proposed to BSE as a compensation for the increase in the minimum wage, namely the reduction of their insurance contributions and other benefits, where they will be in one pocket and on the other hand? Will the indirect taxes be drastically and directly reduced? Will VAT be abolished in the broadly popular consumption? Will anti-government laws and memorial commitments that undermine collective bargaining and corresponding negotiations be abolished? Will elastic employment relationships be abolished? What happens when the Commission demands from any next government that the Memorandum promises be fulfilled, which Mr Tsipras himself signed? What happens when strict recommendations for limiting state social policy expenditure are introduced? As every worker can understand, an increase in the minimum wage will be very easily depleted if the answer to these questions is negative. Now you've all got the pain to raise the minimum wage. Cuvetta, however, you are not talking about abolishing the disgraceful law by the name of your Ministers, the Bruce of the New Democracy and Achtzioglou of SYRIZA to dismantle all measures prohibiting collective bargaining, but also those that restrict trade union activity by preventing workers collectively, organised through their unions to fight, push, claim substantial increases. If today the minimum wage is at the bottom, it is because your law remains in force. This law now enables the New Democracy Government to present increases in crumbs, i.e. 2% for 2022 - which in practice means 0.50 cents of the euro - as an improvement in the real income of workers in relation to the strengths of economic competitiveness, productivity indicators, etc. Despite your declarations of lower wages, while still in place the entire anti-American legal arsenal of the abolition of contracts, the totalitarianity of labour relations, partial or rotating employment, the average wage will be continually compressed downwards, the latitude between the needs of the workers and their income will grow. It is also convenient for SYRIZA's criticism of the movement of accuracy, as it obscures the very causes of the problem. What is the accuracy he's kneeling on the people's households? Any Greek originals or any new physical phenomenon, so also temporary? Not to mention what we have heard in recent months about Brazilian coffee plantations, Chinese ports and the measures of the pandemic in Vietnam. All this has been forgotten with what you said that the accuracy 'boot is going to pass' and that soon it will even retreat. Where did you see her retreat? Take a walk to the people's neighborhoods. The causes of accuracy are outside and away from the operation of this same system? Are you trying to tell us that it has nothing to do with the management of the crisis, where now it is not the horizontal reductions in income, the application of strict budgetary rules, but the temporary relaxation of them and a more expansionary economic policy to which all of you are converging? Did you see how life brings them? You want to tell us that the inflated accounts of electricity and electricity are irrelevant to the policy of Green New Deal, which you all have now done, nothing of exception, gospel. Is it irrelevant to eject prices into electricity into the policy of liberalising the trade in pollutants, major increases in gas, extremely expensive renewable energy sources? Are they not related to the export orientation in a number of products that push upwards and on the internal market? Are they not related to privatisation and the continuous waves of trade in energy, water, transport, health, education? If we are to talk today about protecting people's income, this means substantial increases in wages, abolition of anti-grass taxes, indirect taxes and the transfer of tax burdens to the large capital, increase in pensions and a reduction in workers' insurance contributions while moving to the large employer, to put a brake on the appreciation of flat-consumption products and substantial intervention against the various cartels. Everything else is a conversation. It is also convenient to review SYRIZA that your government lacks ability. This is a criticism that ultimately hides that you are determined to apply the most barbaric anti-population policy to an antenna, a policy that is necessary for you to ensure these high rates of growth of the profits of the few, for which you are today composting without suspensions even with authoritarianism and repression against workers, the people and youth. Now, how is it after all that SYRIZA and KINAL drag you in here today, that we have reached the point that PASOK - KINAL has voted 70% of your bills and SYRIZA 50%, that is true that only such parties of sinful old social democracies can answer it. At the core of this call for political opposition, of course, it is not the Recovery Fund that you all welcomed together, this new mechanism, the new memorandum that binds our people again. At the core of this ballot political confrontation is not the 'green' transition strategy, since you agree that it is being made in order to provide a way out of the overcompensated gains of capital. At the core of your polluting policy is not promotion at all costs of US, NATO, other Euro-Atlantic partners. You're agitated with them. The core of all your policy is how to ensure better conditions for the profitability of monopolistic groups, particularly in conditions of international competition and instability caused by the vicious cycle between capitalist crisis and capitalist development. All the fight is done on what method, what alternative plan will be used to serve precisely this. Here we have to recognise that domestic, even illuminated as a large degree of social democracy with all its variations, has been tested in our country in various stages and has shown that it has some additional qualifications. He has the ability to implement the core of this policy with fewer vibrations for his system and authority, to drill holes, to pour it into the eyes of the folk player, to breathe and then hand it over to the perpetual to continue the same anti-grassroots course. Do you want to remember in the 1980s, when the mighty PASOK then flagged the slogans of the People's Movement supported the urban system to stabilise in the first few years after the fall of the dictatorship, is it true that at another time when the international association of forces was different due to the existence of the international socialist system, especially the Soviet Union, but also the capitalist economy was in another phase, with other needs to resolve issues of the system itself, with the known reforms and restructuring for the consolidation and long-lasting of the capitalist system? Do you want to go more recently to SYRIZA in 2015, who managed within a few years to take as many anti-grass measures as not all previous governments succeeded together, and at the same time - the worst - to bring back the labour movement, the people's movement, to castrate, to keep up radically honest people's consciences? Could he offer a greater service to the system than this? Unfortunately, the same does now as an Opposition. Social democracy offers valuable services to capital and power everywhere in the world. Let this now be the wind of the social democratic change that is breathing throughout Europe. Precious services are also offered by the Government of Social Democrat Solts, Minister of Merkel - so that we do not forget - which highlights what is known as a tight fiscal policy, namely the people in hunger. And that is the logic of 'the German imperialism Iber alles'. Precious services have also been offered by the so-called progressive Portuguese government. The example - as long as it lasted - is revealing: Enlargement of poverty that exceeds 20% of the population, 'flying' as an increase in minimum wages, an increase in flexible labour contracts, when wealth continues to accumulate in the pockets of a few means and measures to alleviate business taxation from 25% to 21%. It was not by accident that BSE wrote it 'do it like in Portugal'. Today, all of you, even the New Democracy Government trying to set up new pitfalls to the people, have all worn the mask of progress, on the one hand SYRIZA with the well-known 'caramella' of progressive governance, and on the other hand the New Democracy, which also claims the title of the progressive party, as Mr Mitsotakis said recently. Mercy! We'll forget what we knew. Progress, says Mitsotakis, is the change, the possibility of adapting to a changing world. What does the New Democracy mean for workers, for the people? Adapting their rights, their requirements, their needs to measures of capital gains, which also needs the digital revolution to move forward without impeding its investments, but also at the same time exploiting this digital revolution for both the fresco and the suppression of the people. It needs the alibi of climate change to run its green business, of course, under the pretext of protecting the environment at all times. Your progress is identical, however, only to capitalist profitability. New Democracy and SYRIZA are fighting about who is the best expression of progressive governance, undermining the concept of progress. But progress is to move forward, to improve your life. Progress is your children living better than you ever did in the past generations.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-18-S1-commons.u51	Please, you don't have the floor. Don't fly.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-18-S1-commons.u52	There is indeed - and I have identified it - a matter in regional hospitals. It was not just us who have faced this problem, but many other countries too. These hospitals have never been designed to deal with such a sharp increase in cases. We did everything we could to support them, but it is obviously difficult for a regional hospital to have the degree of specialisation that a large hospital in Athens can have. This is definitely a lesson for the next day. I did not expect any study by any professor to strengthen the health system and increase the number of ICUs.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-18-S1-commons.u53	Please! There's no reason to make all this fuss.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-18-S1-commons.u54	Since the first time the first lockdown was imposed, we knew that the SYRIZA government has given us a tragic situation in the area of intensive care units and we have tried to strengthen the National Health System so that we can get to all health regions almost double the number of intensive care units. The problem, however, has been identified by...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-18-S1-commons.u55	Before you protested about the vacation. Now you're worse. Finally, quiet! The debate needs to be completed. This isn't a picture and you don't get anything. Nobody's going to vote for you because you're screaming. Finally! Quiet! I said the same thing before. Quiet, what image is this?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-18-S1-commons.u56	So we had found that the only way we could get to the point that our hospitals did not have the pressure they faced in the second wave, in which, unfortunately, many hospitals, as I first confessed, were unable to meet the increased requirements of the number of invasives, were to insist very quickly on vaccination. The operative cause of the pressure problem in hospitals was the fact that we did not achieve a vaccination coverage in our country similar to that in European countries, which did much better in this area. I would like to read at this point, because here we need to explain to the Greek society exactly what is going on, a very interesting article, which was published today by a teacher, whose - I imagine - you are not questioning scientific competence. I am thinking of Mrs Kotanidou, who is one of the most experienced scientists in the country in the management of intensive. Since Mrs Kotanidou acknowledges the important steps taken in the middle of a pandemic, she says: "Let us note here that the problem of waiting for a Clinic PTH exists before the pandemic and is timeless. In the interval between being able to find a IF bed, apparently patients on a waiting list receive the best possible care in the chamber in cooperation with the staff of the individual clinic. There is no doubt, however...'.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-18-S1-commons.u57	Where is this story going, ladies and gentlemen?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-18-S1-commons.u58	Will you listen? "...there is no doubt, however, that the ideal treatment of life-threatening health problems is best done in the controlled environment of intensive care units." So to explain exactly what we have said and for which in my previous speech I did not use the best wording, it is that incorporation outside an intensive treatment unit is indeed an emergency solution. It is an emergency that we have to resort to when the pressure on the health system is too great. And I wonder, is this problem new, Mr. Tsipras, Mr. Polakis and Mr. Xanthi? On your day, I wonder, Mr. Tsipras, have you ever dealt with this problem? Mr. Polakis, have you dealt with this problem for your day? Tell me about it. Silence! Of course, Mr. Kurubly, you're refreshing him comfortably, but Mr. Polakis, who is your best ego when he talks about killers? Over here, it's on the front line! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I have a written report from the WTO. Mr Paulakis will know this report because it refers to it. So what does this report say? "Tractical deficiencies...", Mr. Tsipras, "in the intensive units of the National Health System..., a thousand patients..., a lack of IF beds costs human lives." Did you hear that, Mr. Polakis? In 2018, five hundred IF beds operate, five hundred in public hospitals and forty in private. One hundred and fifty beds equipped in public hospitals do not work due to a lack of staff. Did these things happen for your day? And here it becomes even more dramatic: Thousands of patients a year lose their lives because of the non-operation of fifty equipped beds of ICU. Forty-five-equipped patients are waiting on the waiting list every day in the ICUs. And finally, five thousand per annum could live if a sufficient number of IFs were in operation! And all this without COVID! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So what is different from what we are seeing today in the midst of an unprecedented health crisis? I'm presenting it for the Minutes. Look at it and send it to Mr. Polakis, remember it a little! [[At this point, the President of the Government, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Under normal circumstances, if we had today a serious Critical Opposition we should... [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] People'sism has affected your entire parliamentary group. You all follow the same habits! If we had had had a serious opposition, then we would have to bend on the substance of the problem, and the essence of the problem is that the staffing of intensive care units proves in practice, as we have told you many times and along with the Minister for Health, a much more complex exercise and much more difficult than simply making ID beds, which we have built as quickly as possible. We should also be very honest and recognise that what happened in Greece also occurs in health systems much more maturely and in societies much more advanced than the Greek one. In Sweden, Mr Tsipras, who is a model of social consensus, with an extremely advanced health system, in the first wave of pandemic, who was more than sixty-five in a nursing home, was not even going to the hospital. The screening, that is, this hard decision with medical criteria of who needs to be evacuated into an intensive treatment unit, because it has a higher chance of success, has been done at this level. And I have here a few inquiries from advanced health systems, such as Hong Kong and Japan, which show that what happened in Greece under great pressure is, unfortunately, happening in all national health systems. So if we had a serious opposition, we would be looking at solving this problem. And I would like to remind you that, when I spoke with honesty about the fact that we do not have one, two other national health systems and the fact that the regional hospitals, unfortunately, are in a much worse state than the hospitals of large cities, when I spoke with courage about the need to reform the health map, the SYRIZA popular opposition has rushed to criticism us. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Because you do not dare take the bold initiatives that will ultimately be for the benefit of the Greeks and say: Yes, we cannot have a hospital in every small city, which will endure, because it is worse for the health of the citizens than for us to be able to gather our forces to build a serious primary health and to know that if someone eventually ends up in a hospital, they will have the opportunity to have the provision he deserves. You said, Mr. Tsipras, with a great deal of nerve, which characterizes you, that you put... You look at me, Mr. Tsipras. Do not send messages. She's a little rude while I'm talking. After all, you have no need to answer, no one needs to tell you what to say. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] You said with a lot of courage that you put 'plate'. Seventeen government initiatives you voted against! Seventeen! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So let's go see how much "plate" you put! You voted against the obligability of sanitary vaccination. You have voted against the strict fines for fake vaccination certificates. You have voted against compulsory vaccination of more than sixty. You have voted against the strict penalties against uninvasive parents who do not send children to school. Rejoice with your support, Mr. Tsipras. Rejoice her! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I now come, ladies and gentlemen, to the second great difficulty we have to face and it is called the energy crisis and inflationary pressures. It is a problem of the whole planet, as it is directly linked to the effects of pandemic and lockdown. As demand has risen sharply internationally, supply of products has not yet been sufficient and this has led to significant price rises, while at the same time energy and especially natural gas at unprecedented levels. This has increased the raw materials and transport charges which in turn have borne the prices of many products and services. We reacted in the best possible way. Inflation in Greece is at 4% compared with 4.9% in the Eurozone and 5.2% in the rest of Europe. But we must be honest with the citizens and be fully aware of the policies of the government. The accuracy will be with us for a while, and the government will therefore be here to support all Greek citizens. It will support them on the one hand through the Ministry of Development's initiatives, by controlling speculation, the cases of unjustified market appreciations, because they are also happening, unfortunately, but also by intervening, where necessary, from the electricity bills to - if necessary - with the issues relating to the household basket, as it is in the supermarket. We do so without harming the financial balance, but without leaving the household and the consumer helpless, especially the weaker one. We have already raised an important wall, a shield against energy appreciation, and Greece first since the beginning of September has created an Energy Transfer Fund, making funds that have exceeded EUR 800 million to support consumers, households and businesses in the low trend. These funds are only part of the EUR 1.35 billion allocated to this front in 2021. But we must be absolutely clear with the citizens. What is happening at the moment in the international energy markets has not - I repeat, it does not have a historic precedent, especially what is happening with gas prices. Our intervention has been timely, but in particular there has been a dynamic one as to the need to constantly adapt to the new market data that changes every day. You told us in a revulsion of your speech, Mr. Tsipras: 'Why do you not anticipate now what will happen on the energy market in 2022?' If you know, come and tell us to plan the measures together! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Because, unfortunately - unfortunately! - at the moment the reclassifications in the energy market have gone worse and, yes, the increases in gas were out of every predictive model. The protection measures are for households, for businesses, for farmers and for farmers, for electricity bills, for electricity, for gas and for oil, and for the naturally regulated charges for networks with special provisions and for additional aid for vulnerable households. In response, therefore, to the new data, I would like to announce today three new measures, which concern consumers and businesses: Firstly, there will be an additional increase in State aid in electricity tariffs for December and, respectively, in social tariffs and in vulnerable households. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Secondly, there will be an increase in the discount on gas accounts by 40% in December. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And thirdly, as far as our farmers are concerned, there will be most coverage of the adjustment clause in agricultural energy tariffs from August to December. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I know that it is sometimes difficult to explain to a consumer, who is faced with an increase in his account, that this increase would be much greater if there were no State intervention. But it is true, and it is enough to look at any electricity bill, to see how much greater the increase would be if we hadn't made the intervention, which we have already launched. Yes, there are increases in invoices. These increases would, however, be inconsistent, impossible to manage many households, if we had not made this intervention, which is obviously a dynamic one, because we cannot now know what the price behaviour will be, while our interventions will have the same potential for the first few months of 2022, if necessary and I believe that it will be necessary. I repeat that the crisis is international. Greece has taken more measures by analogy than many other European countries. We will support consumers, we will support our vulnerable fellow citizens and we will ensure that the burden from the appreciations is the least possible until we can overcome this global crisis of accuracy, which at least the European Central Bank believes will start in the second half of 2022. Ladies and gentlemen, for all aspects of the new budget, the Minister responsible, almost all of our Members, has spoken to many members of the Ministerial Council. As you can see, I confined myself to summarizing the general picture of our country in 2021 without hiding the obstacles and challenges of 2022 from Greek citizens. I believe that we are doing so with modesty, without celebrations of the successes of the Greek people, but without any reductions, for the great effort made by the Greek Government, indeed, in unprecedented times. The verb, which we prefer, is, yes, 'we're trying'. We are constantly trying to do the best in extremely difficult conditions and this verb will be our driver and next year with two objectives: the development of the country and the care of the citizens, especially the most vulnerable. Greece has already taken the green light for the National Plan "Greece 2.0". The Chief of Police Response spoke of our country's inability to monitor international and European developments, because we are supposed to be sticking to a neoliberal logic of the 1980s. Really, Mr Tsipras, who was this with eight colleagues, Heads of State and Government, first has claimed the Recovery Fund? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We did it. We did it! We have been in Brussels for five days to be able to claim and convince the European Union that this fund is necessary. And I understand that it bothers you, it spoils the account, when a centre-right liberal government comes and makes the largest state intervention ever made by a recommendation from the Greek state. It's confusing with your prejudices. It's confusing with your logic. We amazes you every time we actually prove that, yes, we are socially sensitive and that the monopoly on social sensitivity does not claim it in this Chamber. No one is, Mr Tsipras, gentlemen of KINAL-PASOK, gentlemen of the rest of the counterpopulation, more socially sensitive than anyone else. And that is why we are pleased today that we can be the second, essentially, country in Europe, which will receive a significant sum from the Recovery Fund, having already approved an ambitious reform and investment plan, which totals EUR 32 billion. Once again, you repeat this candy that no one will benefit from the Recovery Fund except the big companies. That's what you said today, isn't it? Aren't you telling me, Mr. Tsipras, when the Recovery Fund finances a project, such as the "AXICOMO - AUTONOMOS", only the big benefit? Aren't all the households benefiting? Are the plumbers, the people who put the lids, the small and medium-sized Greek construction companies not benefiting? Who is ultimately benefiting from these programmes? When we have loan programmes today, at a rate of interest - look, I want our fellow citizens and especially businessmen to hear this - a little above zero, because this rate offers us today the Recovery Fund, everyone can benefit. All Greek businessmen, small and medium-sized and large, who have reliable investment plans, can be financed from these tools. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Or when we promote major infrastructure projects, which are also partly financed by the Recovery Fund, is it only the manufacturer? We unblocked both the E65 and the Patras tower project, which you handed us into a tragic situation. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Don't remember that now! Don't remember them! Do not remember the relationship with Mr. Kalogrisa, how you did the work eight pieces to give contractors to your convenient friends, along with Mr. Pappas. And, yes, I committed myself to the citizens of western Greece that this project will be unblocked and we have done it. We have done so, because the country is credible today and the European Commission has given us approval and the project will be financed in part by the Recovery Fund. These are national projects with a significant local footprint. They create thousands of jobs, benefit the whole country, as the whole country benefits from the considerable investments that will be made in the digital state, which will absorb major resources from the Recovery Fund and which is a national success. It is a national acquis, the fact that today we have the possibility of communicating with the state through the comfort of our computer or mobile without suffering. Gov.gr is the mirror of Greece of the future! It's Greece we want, it's Greece we're fighting for! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So how much does this have to do with this caricature that you repeat monotonously since 2016 that I was elected Chief of New Democracy? You continue today to oppose a party and a government that exists only in your own imagination, just in your own mind, because this confrontation is supposed to suit you. And finally, yes, this government is the government that has reclaimed and will have significant resources to support the 'Spyros Doxiadis' programme for prevention of public health. And that will be financed by the Recovery Fund. Is this a programme that's going to go to a few businessmen? To be able, for example, to convince women to make quicker control of breast cancer? We call this programme 'Photo Gennamas'. [[Applause from the wings of the New Democracy and the Change Movement]] Are these all programmes, which will ultimately benefit businessmen alone? What about the interventions we're doing in education? This government has for the first time made permanent recruitment of teachers, which is why we have increased the budget by 180 million. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We build the new school, a school that will teach our children not just knowledge but skills, which will eventually link knowledge to real needs in the labour market. And when we have today through the Ministry of Labour billions for training our staff, for continuing training, for the interventions in technical education that are so important that our young people can have another professional way out, far from university, all of these interventions will ultimately benefit what benefit? Do they not benefit society, do they not benefit many, do they not ultimately benefit the weaker? Finally, our social concern lies within our previous decision within 2022 to raise the minimum wage for a second time. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I am not ready today to talk about its exact amount, because you know that there is a very clear procedure, defined by the law on the minimum wage increase. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Yes, why do you think that today, with a law and two articles, you will increase the minimum wage to EUR 800 and delete the debts? Yeah, I'm not saying it because we're not the same! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Because I've learned not to fool the Greeks like you fooled them! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] That's why I'm not ready to say it! That's our difference! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The minimum wage will be increased in the first half of 2022 in such a way that the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises is not jeopardised, but at the same time we can provide substantial income support to our fellow citizens, who today face an increased cost of living and seek an increase in their wages so that they can get through. Because what we have said, we mean it and it is unnegotiable for us. The growth dividend must benefit all Greek women and all Greeks. The simple number of growth of 7%, 8%, 9% doesn't say anything to our fellow citizens. What he says to our fellow citizens is increasing wages and creating new jobs. That is what we are insisting on, which is why we will fight and that is what we will do. And when the time comes, at the end of 2022, to make the balance sheet, as we do the report this year for 2021, I have no doubt that these goals will have been achieved again. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Finally, a reference to defence spending. Greece, with methodological steps, invests in its deterrent capacity, along with an active foreign policy that strengthens our alliances and strengthens our country's prestige. In January, the first six Rafah lands in Tanagra. [[Upright Members of the New Democracy applaud vividly and protractedly]] And within the next few weeks, the final agreement on the three Belaras is signed. And that is what I want the entire Greek people to hear. I am not addressing you, I am addressing the Greek citizens who are watching us. At this juncture, having inherited Armed Forces for which, for ten years, no investment has actually been made, at this juncture, the Dedicative Opposition is voting against defensive expenditure! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And it does so by once again breaking tradition to the Greek Parliament, which said that despite our disagreements, always the opposition parties - the Change Movement - voted in favour of the country's defence spending. One thing I will just say and the conclusions will be drawn by the Greek people: you are always present in what is divided and always absent from what is united! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Let it be, Mr. Tsipras. The national front is formed even without your participation! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Mr President, I close by saying that the Greek citizens today know that our country is changing. Our homeland is stronger today than it was twenty-seven months ago. It's stronger finances, it's stronger geopolitical, it's stronger defense, it's stronger in its image abroad. It is a Greece of confidence and progress. The 2022 budget, which we will be voting on shortly, is a development budget, is social, is reformist and is absolutely consistent with our policy, because it is in line with the principle of householded budgets, because it continues to serve our central election commitment, which is no more than the relief of citizens of the taxes which you have imposed on Greek society. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Because it proposes a fair redistribution of wealth to reduce inequalities. And, to say it otherwise, the country today - and this is the great challenge - has to be dealt with with the best and not the worst of itself. As I said at the beginning of my speech, the state budget is certainly an instrument for economic policy. At the same time, however, it is also a political mirror in which all the priorities of the government are clearly reflected, but our vision of the country is also reflected. And this year's image of this mirror, despite the difficulties, despite the adversities, despite uncertainties, is the image of a more optimistic Greece and certainly of a more ambitious, ready to overcome adversity and turn them into opportunities for progress. From the range of stagnation Greece now passes to the clearing of stability. And that becomes the key to the greatest power in the country. I insinuated it in my introduction. At the moment, the great advantage of the country, I dare say to a certain extent and the source of its prosperity, is political stability. Without it - we have learned and know it well not only would the allies and their partners, not the foreign investors, not the visitors themselves, not even the Greek citizens. And this political stability is based on a simple but decisive recipe: fast but weighed decisions that bring tangible results, clean economic and political choices that eventually lead us to clean horizons and to a safe and productive environment which, in turn, forms the conditions for more security and more growth. If, then, the figures, percentages and budget indicators illustrate the government's quantitative objectives, stability and the positive political climate make up the atmosphere in which it moves. And this is a qualitative dimension with which we deserve to deal because it is ultimately linked to many other challenges, the stable electoral cycles, the functional electoral system, national responsibility, party maturity, and even everyday political behaviour. All of this is demanded for the new Greece. Our choice, therefore, this evening will be of special importance because it is not only about the adoption of a budget, but also of a comprehensive understanding of the steps that the country has taken during important 2020, of what succeeded it in a very difficult but fertile after all 2021, and which is in our hands to be the precursor of a better 2022. I would like to thank our parliamentary group for its very important participation in this debate and to ask for your positive vote on the budget for the year 2022. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-18-S1-commons.u59	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the state budget for the financial year 2022 has come to an end. In addition to the six general and twelve special rapporteurs, six parliamentary representatives and two hundred colleagues, a total of two hundred and twenty-five Members. They also spoke with the Deputy Prime Minister, twenty-one Minister, five Deputy Ministers and nine Deputy Secretarys, i.e. thirty-six members of the Government, and the six Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups. The five meetings lasted more than sixty hours. In the debate on the State Budget of 2022 there was no shortcut of speaking time and everyone spoke with tolerance of time. Parliamentary representatives have also been given the floor as many times as they have requested, far more than the planned time. The debate on the state budget for the financial year 2022 is therefore adjourned and we will proceed to the vote. The vote on the budget for the revenue and expenditure of the Presidency of the Republic, the Presidency of the Government and the Ministry will be taken by roll-call electronic vote, i.e. with your card. As is well known, all the Ministries and the Presidency of the Republic, as well as the Presidency of the Government, have only costs, except for the Ministry of Finance which has revenues with the budget. The state budget includes Parliament's budget, which will not again be considered by the House, given that the Parliament's budget, as already adopted by the House at its meeting of 16 November 2021, is under the Rules of Procedure a enforcer and has been registered without any change in the general budget of the State. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the House, the vote on the budget of the Public Investment and Approved Budgets, as well as on the budgets of the Decentralised Administrations, referred to in Article 2 of the bill, is carried out in particular and successively by an upsurge or upsurge. I therefore propose, with the permission of this House, that the vote should take precedence over the electronic vote in order to make it easier for my fellow Members to vote. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-18-S1-commons.u60	The House therefore agreed. Is this why this House asks: Does it accept the budget for public investment and for attached budgets for the financial year 2022? Please, those who accept to rise. [[Receivables]] Evidently, most of them were in favour of acceptance. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The House has therefore admitted. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Does the House accept the regular budget for the decentralised administrations for the financial year 2022? Please, those who accept to rise. Evidently, most of them were in favour of acceptance. The House has therefore admitted. We shall now proceed to the roll-call electronic vote. We note that the vote includes the revenues of the budget, the expenditures of the Presidency of the Republic, the expenditures of the Presidency of the Government and the nineteen ministries, namely, a total of twenty-two fields. Each time on the screen they appear as four Ministries to vote. To vote for the rest, once you have voted the four, you have to roll the touch screen. Those who accept the revenues of the budget, as well as the expenses of each of the Ministry and the Presidency of the Republic and of the Presidency of the Government, namely those who accept both fields, vote 'NAI'. Those who do not accept them vote 'HO'. Those who do not vote 'NEI' or vote 'NOI' vote 'PANI'. Please make sure at the end that you have voted for the twenty-two separate votes. After you register your vote, you have the opportunity to check it, even to revise it, but this until the end of the vote. I would ask my fellow Members to remain in the Chamber until the electronic voting system is closed and, before they leave, to make sure that everyone has completed their own vote. I would now ask that the electronic voting system be opened. Ladies and gentlemen, electronic voting begins.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-18-S1-commons.u61	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that letters or faxes have been sent to the Bureau by colleagues, pursuant to Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure, in which they give their vote. These votes will be recorded in the Minutes, they will be announced and taken into account in the electronic count, which will be followed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-18-S1-commons.u62	Ladies and gentlemen, since you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-18-S1-commons.u63	Members' positions, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-18-S1-commons.u64	Consequently, following the conclusion of the vote with the electronic system, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Definition of the State Budget for the financial year 2022’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, under the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-18-S1-commons.u65	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote that took place on the state budget was concluded. I would ask the House to empower the Bureau to ratify the minutes of the sittings of 14, 15, 16, 17 and 18 December 2021, including the debate and the vote of the State budget for the financial year 2022.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-18-S1-commons.u66	The requested authorisation was therefore granted. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-18-S1-commons.u67	With the consent of the House at 18.19 p.m., the meeting for Monday 20 December 2021 at 9 p.m., on the subject of Parliament's work: a) parliamentary scrutiny, topical debate and b) legislative work, only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Tourism: "Prototypes of Tourism Integrated Management, Management and Promotional Organisations, Viamatic Sources of Greece and other arrangements for strengthening tourist development".
