ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle and articles of the draft law of the Ministry of Digital Governance : « Clear from 30 to 2021 the Act of Legislative Content " Establishment, content and procedure for the adoption of a Digital Certificate COVID -19' ( A'87 ) and more specific safeguards for the protection of personal data ». The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 3 June 2021 to discuss the draft law at a meeting, uniform at the outset and articles. With regard to the organisation of the debate, it is naturally proposed that rapporteurs and special speakers be involved, the Parliamentary Representatives, a first cycle involving a speaker from each Parliamentary Group and a 12-member circle of speakers, with the following ratio: Five from New Democracy, three from SYRIZA, one from the Change Movement, one from the Communist Party of Greece, one from the Greek Solution and one from Mera25. With a teleconference service, i.e. webex platform, a 12-mile circle of speakers is also proposed, with the same ratio. The name of the speaker has already been assigned by the Parliamentary Groups by letters. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u2	The House agreed. Ladies and gentlemen, an objection of unconstitutionalism has been raised by the President and the Greek Parliamentary Group. He'll be shot and distributed to you. In the practice followed, the debate on the objection will take place at the end of the speeches by the rapporteurs and the special speakers. The rapporteur, Mr Athanasios Zebble, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, six months ago in Europe, there was concern about the inadequate supply of vaccination doses. However, at the same time, in January 2021, the initiative of the Greek Prime Minister for the Digital Certificate showed that there was another Europe, the Europe of cooperation, flexibility and speed. It is true that the successful management of the pandemic and its impacts has strengthened the country's image internationally. Greece, with enhanced prestige, has now been able to take initiatives that went beyond its borders. With this credibility reserve, Greek Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis has systematically worked to create a uniform framework for issuing the single European certificate COVID -19. With a view to a free summer, this digital application would facilitate the movement of citizens between Member States and not only. Since then, a great debate has begun in Europe and internationally, with the largest news agencies mentioned in the Greek proposal. Spain, which is also dependent on tourism, will support the Greek initiative. But it is not just the states of the European south. Austria will also move in the same direction, with the Chancellor of Chancellor expressing her enthusiasm that Greece submitted the proposal for a Single European Certificate, as he said. Thus, the Digital Certificate, which started his journey from our country, gradually began to reach his destination. Finally, the Greek proposal was formally adopted at the special session of the European Council of 24 and 25 May 2021. However, it should be pointed out that this 'travel' was not inappropriate. There have also been reactions. In our country Mr. Friends gave the opinion of apartheid, saying that such a certificate which opens up fast-moving strips will be subject to wild trade. It is important that these views were not adopted and that the Digital Certificate met the broad acceptance of citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, when this proposal was first heard in January, there were serious doubts whether this could be done in our country. Thus, it was a pleasant surprise that Greece was one of the first states to operate the relevant platform and, indeed, a month before the European objective. However, in order to reach this achievement, the state had to create the necessary digital background, face pandemic as an opportunity and make a big leap and, indeed, in an area that has achieved tragic performance by then. There's no doubt that the pandemic worked as an accelerator. In order to achieve this, however, a systematic and laborious effort should have taken place. With inspiration and perseverance, in fact the political leadership of the Ministry of Digital Reform in the last two years has carried out an ambitious plan for the digital transformation of the state, for the benefit of the citizens, to facilitate the lives of the workers, the weak, the simple everyday people. So for the first time, so praiseworthy comments from the international media on its upgraded digital services were made for Greece. They also referred to the example of Greece, the Greek formula of success for the vaccination process that is progressing in the most exemplary way. To date more than six million vaccinations have been carried out, no tailless, no delays, no suffering, without our well-known mess. Recently, an article was published in the authoritative German newspaper "TAGESSPIEGEL" entitled "Best Greece manages from Germany", which referred to the success of the Greek Prime Minister for the Digital Certificate and his rapid implementation in our country. That is something we ourselves see. The retroactive effect of the legislative act gives us the opportunity to know and experience of how the special electronic platform held for this purpose has been operating on the single portal of public administration. Up to now more than two thousand certificates have been issued easily and quickly through gov.gr at the request of stakeholders. Therefore, there is no need for me to go into unnecessary technical details of the implementation today. I will confine myself to saying, however, that this legislative act was legally adopted, as our country should respond directly to the extremely urgent and unforeseen need to achieve the Union objective, especially when the certificate could also be applied at the transitional stage by Member States for the movements between them. So it is important that the digital certificate facilitates the arrival of tourists in our country from seven states, including Germany, of which we have most arrivals every year. However, we must point out that, in this case too, the principle of good legislation is respected, since the act of legislation has come to Parliament within three days of its entry into force with regard to the three-month period of ratification. In particular now in the provisions of the draft law. The proposed regulation referred to in Article 1 of this Regulation establishes the necessary framework for the issue of the COVID Digital Certificate -19 and regulates how it is to be issued and the verification of that validity. The certificate, bearing the QR code and an electronic signature, shall include information and data on a case-by-case basis relating to vaccination sessions, the results of diagnostic checks or the illness of the person. These data will be obtained through interoperability from the respective public sector registers. In accordance with the relevant Union decisions and bilateral agreements, the certificate will apply from 1 July to all Member States of the European Union and to Iceland, Norway and Liechtenstein. To this end, the European Commission has created a portal through which all the signatures of the certificates can be verified throughout the European Union. Personal data of the holder of the European certificate shall not be passed through the gate as this is not necessary for the verification of the digital signature. Subsequently, the proposed provision of Article 2 shall specify the framework for ensuring the protection of personal data and the principles of their processing. Here we should point out that the European certificate has been established, such as any Union act, in accordance with the provisions of the General Rules on Personal Data of the well-known GDPR. In addition, the certificate contains a limited set of necessary information which means that it fulfils the principle of necessity and proportionality with regard to the type of data and the extent of the collection. In this way, legal goods of privacy and the public interest are fairly weighted, in the most specific version of public health. Nevertheless, our country is also a pioneer in the issues of confidentiality and data security, putting with Article 2 additional safeguards, in cooperation with the Independent Privacy Authority. Ladies and gentlemen, it is further noted that the possession of the CIVID digital certificate -19 is not a precondition for exercising the right to free movement of the natural person of his holder. It is therefore clear that individual freedoms and constitutional rights are not affected and are not restricted. On the contrary. In a period of severe restrictions on freedom due to the measures imposed by governments, the digital certificate is an instrument that facilitates citizens to regain their basic rights. It is, as the Prime Minister said, a fast-moving lane that will make travel even easier especially during the summer. Finally, it is a safe tool which, with allies the intensity of vaccination and compliance with health protocols, will allow for a rapid return to normality. In particular, for countries such as Greece, which are dependent on providing services, to ensure the resumption of the fastest possible free movement of persons is the basis for relaunching the heavy tourism industry. In fact, according to the first indications, Europe will be the first region to recover in tourism and Greece will be the leader in this effort. Greece is present and is at the forefront of shaping European rules on the treatment of pandemic. Greece is present and is at the forefront of the harmonisation of Union economic policies. Greece, finally, is present and is at the forefront of the digital transformation of the state and society. To conclude, Mr President, I would like to stress that this digital certificate does not divide and separate citizens, but rather expresses the unity of the people in the face of the pandemic threat, reflects the world's bluntness in the face of the economic and social consequences of the health crisis. That is why we call on all the parliamentary forces, in a spirit of consensus and consensus, to vote in favour of this draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u4	Thank you too, Mr Colleague, for keeping time. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent debate on Wednesday, 9 June 2021. A. Current Questions to the First Cycle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: 'Strengthening of benefits to blind scientists and lawyers'. Questions - Questions (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP B3' South Athens - Theanos Fotou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs on the subject: "Refusing for months to intervene, despite repeated warnings from workers and SYRIZA, you condemn Sikiaridio in definitive closure and children with mental disabilities in social isolation and marginalisation". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question under number 4826/514/8-32021 of Parliament's documents B3' South Athens Sector of SYRIZA - Theanos Fotio to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "To stop the asymmetrical lies the leadership of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and apply SYRIZA's Law 4538/2018 on the assumption and adoption without obstacles, with absolute transparency and information". The SYRIZA rapporteur, Mrs Anastasia Gara, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are today called on to cancel the act of legislation adopted a few days ago and is in force and to issue the COVID digital certificate, in order to facilitate the movement of citizens and, above all, tourists, at a time when the tourist period is at a peak. A happy coincidence, as we have been informed, is now expected to be discussed and voted on in the European Parliament the corresponding European certificate that has been approved in the competent institutions of the European Union in the previous days. While we should therefore be discussing the incorporation of a European Rules of Procedure for COVID licences -19 in order to have uniform rules in all countries, we are discussing a lacking framework which establishes a patent of 'parental' inspiration - we would say - which, in fact, you have already abandoned in practice, as the content of the legislative act is not exactly in line with the form issued by the website gov.gr and which, of course, follows one of the models of the European Certificate. So why, ladies and gentlemen of the government, have you chosen a lonely road, and even by hasty procedures involving mistakes and omissions, while we observe that the European Union is moving fast on this issue? Why have you rushed to adopt a legislative act, to bring an amendment, to withdraw it on the same day, at the same time submitting to Parliament the ratification of the act of law, a document, as we have identified, on the foot, which is not related to the forecasts of the European Certificate and does not fall within a single framework of cooperation and rules between the Member States? And that's what you're asking for. The only reason, obviously, is the government's communication management and this issue. Instead of working hard with a health plan, with a tourism plan, in cooperation with the European institutions, you are trying through the digital certificate to present the country as tourists attractive. The rush for the immediate pilot application of the COVID certificate in Greece is therefore also serving, while the single framework will apply in a few days' time. We also pointed it out to the committee that this rush and non-participation in a European framework if it is followed by other countries, is at risk of starting a competition of discounts on health standards in order to attract tourist currents regardless of the content and quality of the certificate. Mr Georgioda, when you were in the committee responsible, trying to fruit an effort which you did not have as a government, you said that it was the Prime Minister who first proposed the European CoVID Certificate. The truth, however, is that the Mitsotakis proposal did not mention a certificate, but a health passport. The truth is that the motion for a Mitsotakis was rejected at European level and rejected by the conservative parties in the European Parliament. The reasons were particularly serious, because they objected to the European acquis on the protection of personal data. Fortunately, with the key contribution of the European Left Group, the SYRIZA MEPs - a Progressive Alliance and other progressive political formations of the European Parliament, the Mitsotakis proposal has been abandoned and rejected and the proposal of the digital certificate has gone ahead with those safeguards which ensure clearly and adequately both the free movement of citizens and the protection of sensitive health and other data. But you are not trying, Mr. Ministers, to be fruitful only with this effort. Instead of presenting it as a collective national effort and success, you are trying through the communication account for another alleged success of Mr Mitsotakis to hide the shortcomings and delays in the vaccination process and the overall planning for the re-launch of tourism. We have reached the point, ladies and gentlemen, daily doses of vaccines are less than 100 thousand. Over the past two weeks, there have been hundreds of fifty thousand fewer vaccinations than expected. It is now almost certain that the target for four million vaccinations in June - which was the target - will not have been achieved, so that we can go further in catching the enough percentage for the building of immunity. The Ministers responsible had set this limit and this objective. At the same time, of course, which is judged to be citizens' confidence, at the same time as you have allowed false or questionable information to be transmitted, while your republics have created cracks in citizens' confidence, you share at the same time some 20 million euros for a media campaign on vaccination, which no one has, of course, seen. Nobody knows where that money is going. No one knows whether and when this campaign has taken place. Are we, in the face of another Mitsotakis government scandal, at the expense of the proper information of citizens, but also of the proper management of public money? We will be dealing with this issue in the next few days, as we have submitted as SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance and a relevant question on this issue and we are still waiting for your answers. However, good information is a very important issue in our collective effort. In addition, you have spoken, Mr Georgioda, in our committee on islanders waiting for tourists. It is true that our islands and the rest of the country's tourist destinations are waiting for this year's season to be financially maintained or recovered. However, for this recovery, they must fight all alone without any support from the state, since you have left them helpless, especially the small and medium-sized professionals, whom you have completely excluded from the emergency aid package. That is why the Greek Association of Entrepreneurs of Tourist Accommodation states in its communication that - in introductory terms - "paidness" has exceeded every limit and blames you for - again in introductory form - "you have not offered any support for small tourist accommodation businesses for a year, while sharing selective money". But it is not just the businessmen you leave without support. You helplessly leave our local communities and visitors themselves, who will be found on an island, for example, or on another destination, failing to complete the sanitary control procedure as foreseen. For visitors, when they complete their stay on the islands or on any other tourist destination, to return from this destination to their countries will need to have at least a negative test to make use of the Digital Certificate to travel. During the tourist season tens of thousands of such checks, tens of thousands of tests, and as local operators and operators of the tourist market, tourist destinations in particular in the smaller islands will be impossible to cover the number of checks, the number of tests that will be required, especially in the peak period, because they have a basic lack of infrastructure and staff. We have told you many times that problems are not solved by communication fissures, but by design and hard collective work. During our debate, we have also raised the problem of movements at the land entrances of the country, particularly at the border with other countries belonging to the European Union, such as Bulgaria. He recognised it in detail - and Mr Georgadas and you committed yourself to preparing some arrangements or some clarification, some labelling, in order to facilitate those who enter on a daily basis on a daily basis and are obliged to undergo tests on exit, but also on return are required to undergo tests on a diagnostic centre based in the neighbouring country in which they have travelled. We are now waiting for a clarification, a solution, a regulation in the digital certificate, to end the suffering of these people and not to burden them in time and in financial terms. Ladies and gentlemen, as a SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance we have been in favour from the outset of a common European management, a common European solution for the safe and rapid movement of citizens for the duration of the pandemic period. At European level as early as 2020, our MEPs have tabled proposals and amendments to facilitate this process of movement, but with those conditions which will not lead to discrimination and exclusion policies. That is why we have actively participated in the negotiation of the European Parliament with the Commission to ensure that citizens' personal data are protected and that the certificate is not a travel document which can create barriers and restrictions on those who want to move. As a consistent Civic Opposition, we have formulated a grid of proposals, which we have publicly tabled and focused on the essential issues for the safe resumption of tourist activity. This includes - among other things - common health protocols in all the countries of Europe, uniform management in all the countries of Europe, with a view to implementation in third countries of immediate interest, evaluation and updating of trace systems, acceleration of the vaccination process and lifting of the patent protection status for all vaccines, extended and repeated diagnostic tests at workplaces, early vaccination of workers in the tourism sector, strengthening health structures in travel destinations, infrastructure and know-how and personnel.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u6	It would be a mistake, ladies and gentlemen, to think that the COVID certificate -19 is a panacea both for the protection of the health of citizens and for the regeneration of tourism. And let alone, when we have before us a legislative initiative by the Government in the form of an act of legislative content which is proclaimed to incorporate - at the foot we say - the European regulation, and it has ended in a few days' time to be an empty shirt as it has already been neglected, cancelled, changed from the state mechanism itself and the relevant services. We urge you, once again, to set up a comprehensive plan by strengthening infrastructure, strengthening staff, supporting the economy and work, exploiting our environmental and cultural wealth, but with the protection of our fellow citizens and health safety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u7	Thank you too, Mrs Gara, and especially for keeping time. Now there is the reason for the special speaker of the Change Movement, Mr. Konstantina Giannakopoulou. I would remind you that the objection of unconstitutionalism, tabled by the President and the Greek Parliamentary Group, will be debated, as always, immediately after the conclusion of the speeches by the rapporteurs and the special speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are living at a new time when developments are running at glossously confessed speeds. Cosmogenic changes take place and are highly characterised by the digitisation of the public and private sectors, by the digital transformation of the state, of work, of our daily lives. We are facing the fourth industrial revolution and the era of the 5G networks. On the other hand, we are living in the era of the COVID pandemic -19 which acted as an accelerator for all these developments and poses new challenges for the future that we have to face. The truth, Minister, is that in this difficult and complex environment all this time there has been genuinely important steps towards digitising transactions, simplifying procedures, eliminating outdated bureaucratic obstacles. Society responded, embraced all these changes, innovations, adapted and continuously adapted if you like in the new digital environment, familiarized with the new digital requirements. The duplicate of the Ministry of Digital Governance in this digital transition is clear, and it would be micropsy on our part not to recognise it. Of course, in order to put things on the very right footing, what is going on all this time especially in terms of the state's digital transformation was and is an unequivocal obligation for the Greek state and had already started steps from the past. In any case, however, nothing is given in particular in the political process as we know it. Of course, we all know very well that from words to action there is a very long time. And, of course, when we are dealing with structural reforms beyond the announcements, beyond words need inspiration, and patience, and insistence to be able to achieve the result. So the pandemic, as I said before, has given the opportunity to go much faster on the digitalisation actions in the public and private sectors, and yet the way forward in the fourth industrial revolution is long, difficult and requires investment in technology, skills upgrade, because you know very well that there is still a serious percentage of digital illiteracy and that is something you should see and face up to, it needs to create new national infrastructures and of course the appropriate regulatory framework. ‘As long as the European Union speeds up its digital transformation it raises these issues to a top development priority, and all this creates and composes the new framework in which we are at the moment and we are called upon to respond safely, safely, with strategic, with concrete steps, in order to move towards the future. So we come today to discuss the innovation of the COVID digital certificate -19 and vote for its ratification. As far as ratification of the legislative act is concerned, today's debate, ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the general context that I have mentioned, also takes place within the framework of our country's specificity with the opening up of tourism. We all know that tourism is the number one product of our economy and has been very badly affected by the pandemic. We are, at the beginning of June, at an absolutely crucial point in the development of the tourist season for this year. We must consider the responsibilities for the results of our country's choices for our preparation in the next difficult and complex time. The draft law on the content and forecast for the establishment of the CIVID digital certificate -19 is seen as a Change Movement that moves in the right direction and we support it. After all, we have made it clear, Mr Minister, since it was, I am sure, a proposal from the Change Movement and from our President Fofi Gennimata already in December 2020. We are very pleased that you understood the importance both for the health of Greek citizens and visitors of our country and for our economy. You adopted this proposal, you strongly supported it, in substance within the European Union, so that the digital certificate can be opened at a pan-European level in agreement with the states in the European Parliament. This, yes, is a national success, ladies and gentlemen, and I think that we need to go beyond the micro-groups and political and party conflicts and disagreements on issues that are credited to them at international and European level. There's no party stacks on these kinds of issues. There is only the flag of Greece. The adoption of a legislative framework for the issue of a single digital certificate, including information and data of the natural person concerning either the vaccination sessions carried out, the results of the last rapid test or molecular or the period of coronary disease, is therefore absolutely necessary and necessary in order to facilitate the exercise of the right to the free movement of natural persons during pandemic at both national and cross-border level. It has already been clarified that the possession of the digital certificate, as established, is not established and is something quite different from the exercise of the fundamental right to free movement of its natural person. What I think is important and precise is that this regulation does not affect or affect in any way the validity of other attestations - vaccination, screening or illness - the extradition of which is provided for in the existing provisions. The use of this certificate is essentially linked to the course of vaccination of the population groups not only at national, but at European and global level. Nevertheless, your main concern, Minister, must be the practical application of what is provided for in this legislative act. This year's tourist season should be the occasion for fleeing only forwards at both economic and social level and none, but absolutely no mistake or oligopoly can be tolerated anymore. Because your government's mistakes, flaws and omissions last summer, Minister, we paid them very expensively in the second and third waves of pandemic. I repeat that we must not forget - and I said this in the debate in committee, where you were not present, and I repeat this because for us it is a very important issue - that Greece is a global tourist destination and that every year we accept millions of tourists not only from Europe, which we are covered by this regulation, but from all the lengths and backs of the earth, especially from the United States, from Russia, from China, from Israel and from Great Britain that is now outside the European Union. So, the issue of tourist input and how exactly and with what validity their transit is certified on equivalent terms, is something you ought to see with due care, seriousness and rigour. And you can do that either by exerting pressure through the European Union's procedures, in order to have a corresponding certificate for the citizens of these countries, or through bilateral relations that your Government will do to pursue the respective, similar security controls of our citizens and visitors. Finally, I would like to insist and remain on the issue of safeguarding personal data and stress that full safeguards must be given to safeguarding, respect, avoiding discounts on any constitutionally regulated and institutionalised right, such as the protection of personal data. I insist, Minister, on the need to strike a balance between strengthening the safety of public health and combating pandemic and, on the other hand, the need to protect privacy and personal data in order to ensure that these policies incorporate these fundamental rights from the outset. After all, these issues are already regulated by European data protection legislation specifically and defines what the authorities must be, but also the obligations to which a verifier has to comply, in order to ensure the lawful processing of personal data. We fully understand the need for this regulation. But all of us should also be concerned about ensuring this data. This is a very long debate both on the current situation and on a number of issues that arise through the challenges of the pandemic and, if you like, on the protection of public health that has arisen through the Krone crisis. However, since last year, following its decision number 5/2020, the Personal Data Protection Authority, which issued a text of guidelines on the processing of personal data in the management of COVID, points out characteristics that the right to the protection of personal data is not absolute, but must be assessed in relation to its functioning in society and weighted, ladies and gentlemen, with other rights, such as life and health. Furthermore - I am not saying it - the Personal Data Protection Authority says in this decision - the controller in both the public and the private sectors, taking the measures necessary to prevent the dissemination of COVID, may process personal data in accordance with Articles 5, 6 and 9 of the GDR, without - as is said - being able to be ruled out as a forbidden processing operation, in particular at this time and in this unprecedented procedure. On the basis of all the above, it seems that the necessary balance, which is very important to us, is maintained between personal data and other fundamental rights and their protection, such as life and health. And this - we stress, we tell you and we will continue to tell you - must be a constant concern for you, a first priority for your Ministry, because it is responsible, where these issues and issues are constantly being raised and raised. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm closing, Mr. President. We - the President says this all the time, and all the Members and members of our movement - are a force that is responsible, serious, structural opposition, where we always put forward concrete proposals and which is a priority for us, through our ever-convincing criticism, to correct errors in the legislations you bring and with concrete proposals to try to bring the best possible result for the Greek society. I asked you a very important question about what you intend to do with the citizens of other countries, which is an issue on which we are hitting the alarm, the risk bell. Already, the issue of tourists coming from Russia and treated with a coronary, while having tested it, is something that should concern you very seriously, and we need to see how, as far as possible, these issues can be avoided. So let us all try, especially on such sensitive and serious issues, with political responsibility and seriousness, away from micro-party purposes, to do, each one of his or her own, the best possible for Greek citizens and our homeland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mrs. Giannakopoulou. The reason is now the Special Buyer of the Communist Party of Greece and F Vice-President of the House, George Lambroulis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. The Communist Party of Greece - as we have also been in the committee responsible for the debate on the legislative act - will vote against the specific act which provides for the adoption, content and procedure for the issuing of the CIVID -19 individual digital certificate, as, moreover, we voted against it in the European Parliament, where - to remind us - New Democracy, the Movement of Change and SYRIZA, despite the objections or objections of the Group of the European Parliament, they voted in favour of it, as they will be doing today. Indeed, it is worth noting that in the relevant debate in the European Parliament, which was revealing the real objectives of the digital certificate, it was indeed revealing as much cynical as the statement by the European Personal Data Protection Supervisor that the digital certificate is not a measure against the coronary, but it is a measure that we agree that there may be an even greater risk if citizens travel, but we prefer to recover the right to travel, even if some additional risks arise. These are, therefore, opinions and positions that under no circumstances relate to the protection of public health by means of the digital certificate and the existing risks of rekindling the pandemic in tourist destinations, unless substantial measures are taken to protect residents and tourists. On the other hand, they show that a compass of the mechanism promoted, the digital certificate, is to ensure the needs for profitability of major business groups in tourism, for transport in the run-up to the tourist season. After all, we in the committee, and today by all the rapporteurs of the parties, are listening, and that is what they are proposing as an argument for the adoption of the digital certificate. Let us not forget, moreover, that strong supporters of this measure have been the International Air Transport Association, i.e. IATA, the major airlines in the world, as has the World Tourism Organisation. Of course, their poorness is not, for example, the thousands of employees in tourism, but their unthinkable profits and the huge risk of tourism monopolies, which place a lot on tourism in this year's tourist season. At the same time, the digital certificate is to be used as a pretext not to shield the public health systems, which have been tested everywhere and in our country, and to prevent the health protection of workers at work respectively, and to relax border control measures and movements, which were a constant request from the large multinationals, airlines, shipowners, hoteliers and tourist businesses. All of this, at a time when the scientific community has not answered whether or not vaccination can effectively prevent the transmission of the virus. So here is the fact that, with a fast track, urgent procedures are still being put in place for the groups, which you are already using as an alibi for the criminal management of the pandemic. In fact, this is a requirement that we have heard just now and also in the New Democracy Committee, SYRIZA, a Change Movement to settle about the paternity of the proposal to create a European Union-wide digital certificate, but also in our country. However, more provocative than the government's attempt to present as a success the management of the pandemic that has cost thousands of dead in our country, hundreds to remain intact, with the public health system turning into a system of a disease, with the consequences of the next few days becoming more visible, is the use of pandemic as an opportunity, so that reactionary restructurings in health can proceed, as the Prime Minister announced a few days ago. In fact, there is nothing less than a new deterioration in the conditions of prevention, care and rehabilitation of the people's health, the deterioration of the conditions of work and of health pay in the supposedly new ESS, which the Prime Minister has spoken about by raising as a solution the same cause that creates and enhances problems in prevention and treatment, namely the policy of even greater support for the private sector, entrepreneurship and commercialisation of the services of the state health sector, that is, policy, which has been tested before and during the pandemic with tragic results. Is that really the policy announced by the Prime Minister that will protect the health and life of our people? Because if something revealed the pandemic beyond any doubt, it is indeed the private sector that can only exist by neglecting people's needs, depriving valuable reserves from the public health system. However, the Government is talking about new possibilities for cooperation between the private and public sectors, that is to say new opportunities for the health business groups and the clerks who have refused to demand all the previous period, to reap the people's backs on the ground and the major shortages in the public system, which this very anti-popular policy is causing, of course, the responsibility of all those who have been in power up to now. In fact, you also lie, aiming to streamline health costs, which will allegedly bring more and better services to the people. But is this not the policy that has led to unprecedented primary health care, the closure of hospitals, clinics, departments, workers redundancies, private-sector contractors and PPPs, which are a gold mine for capital in health? Isn't this a policy that forces the people to put their hand in the pocket deeply because of the cuts in public spending, protocols and plaques that go as cuts in medical care? Just on this terrible situation that you have created all those who have ruled and which has become worse with the pandemic, the Government of New Democracy comes and escalates the policy of trade and privatisation, extending the distance between health and welfare from the real needs of health and the people, despite the possibilities that exist today. And it is terrible indeed, with so many dead and hundreds of thousands excluded from one disease's health system, with individuals diving profits, the Prime Minister saying that it is inconceivable today, in the 20th century, that, in the first century, we have two hospitals within twenty to thirty kilometres of each other, or that the cost is something that obviously - as he said - will be increasingly concerned with us, as science makes a leap. Each word of the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health respectively for the so-called 'next day' of the health system is in line with the logic of cost-reduction, as is the free provision of health services to the people and an increase in the benefit for business colossians, who are devoting either from the shortcomings in public hospitals or from the bishops they develop through partnerships with the State. This is a benefit for business groups which, instead of saving resources, are directed - for example - towards the armouring of hospitals go to attract investment with all kinds of subsidies to monopolies. So if for the people, the cost and the workers have to be reduced, they have to reconcile with the full discharge of the state of health expenditure and the logic of 'what you pay', the same does not apply to capital - for example - for pharmaceuticals, since, as the government has said, many years ago for the pharmaceutical industry in the midst of a crisis, as it has done - let us not forget - the previous government of SYRIZA. Because, as much as he tries to demarcate dividing lines from New Democracy, SYRIZA is on the same side of the concept that prompted him to implement literally the capital and European Union strategy for the operation of public hospitals with private financial criteria as separate business units, covering the operating costs by selling services to patients - customers and insurance funds, while maintaining and implementing for the first time, for the first time, the law on the coexistence of New Democracy - PASOK on changing the financing of hospitals, based on the ability to attract customers and on the achievement of economic efficiency. Not to mention the introduction of the law on the provision of working time for hospital doctors, a law which is now being extended by the New Democracy to all the workers in our country, a law on abortion! So, today, SYRIZA comes in his proposal for the new ESS, and defends the policy of minimum benefits, charging in the pocket of the people any recruitment promises, while closing eyes in the private sector to create conditions of fair coexistence with the public. Thus, the value of any declarations is nullified not only by the things you have done, but by your fixed commitment to support the capital that it invests in health, which in itself undermines the foundations of the public health system. So, whatever you say, gentlemen of the New Democracy, SYRIZA, the Change Movement and the other urban parties, that is, politics, that is, the drug of trade, capitalist profitability and health, cannot be a medicine for the people and their needs. Just in the face of this situation, our people must not give any alibis to the Government, but also to other urban parties, to the terrible situation that lives every day in hospitals and health centres, to public transport, to large workplaces and to demand substantial measures to protect workers in tourism, now that the season begins, for safe transport and armoring of the health of tourists and residents with all the necessary measures. It is necessary to step up their claims by unions and bodies for the real protection of the people from the pandemic, for strengthening the public health system and for restoring the private sector, for mass vaccinations with all available preparations, for measures in the workplace, where thousands of workers are today also at the mercy of protocols and employers. We are therefore saying this clearly in terms of the certificate, that it is a tool for perpetuating your criminal policy, not respecting the necessary, the health protocols necessary for the protection of workers in the workplace, respectively in public transport, for the armoring of the public health system, a policy that has so far led to hundreds of dead people and a huge number of cases. At the same time, it can also be a powerful electronic enveloping mechanism in the name of dealing with the pandemic through mass recording, processing and utilization of medical and other data by urban states, the European Union, by groups and employers in connection with existing state and Euro-Union organisations and engraving mechanisms. It is no coincidence that the European Union at its own digital portal supports Member States in developing software for the certificate mechanism, which will remain after the pandemic. Thus, the certificates medical and other personal data will be collected from databases and mechanisms of the Member States of the European Union and business groups, since nothing ensures their conditions for processing and the limits for their exploitation. The general regulation on the protection of European Union data, not only does it offer protection, but on the contrary is used as a tool to introduce such an exemption that makes it lawful of any violation of personal data by governments, state mechanisms and businesses. In addition, the possibility of each Member State being included in the certificate and additional data - other travellers’ vaccines, etc. - and its extension to other uses, as provided for in the relevant Regulation, demonstrate that the mechanism for collecting and processing data on the basis of the certificate opens the way to permanently and extend, confirming complaints at the same time to trade agreements for millions of medical data identifying persons from business groups to health and insurance companies. So, following on from what we have just said, for example, the provisions of Article 1(7), which describes a unclear and general context and refers to the interconnection with additional computer systems for public sector operators and goes on to say. This does not specifically indicate what will be interconnected, for example with which bodies, there is no mention of these bodies, who will be those who control the certificate, what accreditation they will have, who will be concerned with as recipients. Personal data will be collected on a base. Who ensures that statistics will not be used for any kind of use, even commercially speaking of course? We say this because at the same time as the European Union creates its own digital portal and supports Member States in developing software for the certificate mechanism, governments are developing their own technological tools to check if anyone has been vaccinated. Several operators, however, such as the International Transport Union and the International Chamber of Commerce, already use various applications of their own and increasingly companies, to develop and exploit their own technological applications. In other words, a demonic network is being formed whereby the institutions of the European Union, governments, bodies involved and businesses are able to collect, store, process, exploit and exchange sensitive personal data. Thus, the digital certificate and its implementation, in spite of the fraudulent disorientation, in our view, of the declarations made by the Commission, but also of the urban governments, as well as the Government, for the uniform treatment, European solidarity and free movement, are part of growing competition and the contradictions within the European Union regarding the discrimination of travellers and workers vaccinated with the vaccines approved by the European Union in relation to the Chinese, Russian or any other vaccine is currently available. It is also linked, in our opinion, to the aim of the European Union to gain ground in its competition with the United States and China and in the race to control the digital market, competitions that people will pay again. At the same time, we are concerned that with levers the certificate will intensify the extortion of capitalism for redundancies of workers for various reasons who do not have the certificate and state repression will also be strengthened. That is why - I am closing down with this, Mr President - we are showing as a party the need to strengthen the working- People's Fight against the Anti-Following Policy of the Government, the European Union, capital and the parties that serve it, against the measures and mechanisms of repression and the reduction of the rights and freedoms of our people, and at the same time we are showing the need to strengthen the fight against health and other actors in the labour movement to protect workers in the workplace, the media and public transport in schools, to shield the public health system on the orders of the private sector without compensation, with the recruitment of permanent medical and nursing staff and the acceleration of vaccination with all available safe and effective vaccines. On the basis of all the above, as I said at the outset, Mr President, we are voting against this legislative act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Konstantinos Hetas, special speaker of the Greek Solution, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u12	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, the Minister left you alone. You're a government godfather. Not the godfather type. Don't go there because there are very intense images that we've been taking out lately with what's been happening with crime. I say it with the simple, beautiful concept of the godfather, who baptizes. Don't go to the godfather. You are a government - godfather because you specialize in baptism. You're baptizing in general. You like to be baptized. You are baptizing the fish in general. We're starting from there, basically. Now let's go see what you've done. You have, for example, baptized the troika institutions...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u13	We don't...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u14	Oh, you didn't. But you rule against SYRIZA at all times. You don't rule. You've been compared to SYRIZA for a lifetime. Do something on your own. 'We didn't do it, others did it'! Mr Plouris, since you now want to hear them, the treacherous agreement of the Prespecies - you have not made it, I know - a state-run selfie with Zaev. You've chosen your friends now. You have baptized, gentlemen of the New Democracy, illegal immigrants and you are aspiring, as the President of the Republic said - incredible statements by the President of the Republic, but also the Prime Minister himself here, seeking to block them in Greek society - immigrants to contribute to the treatment of demographics, are the solution to the birth rate. It's creepy. I don't know if anyone puts it. I grieve, because respect for the institution, in the person we're talking about, is enormous. And every day we are proud that the Greek Solution did not vote for Mrs Sakellaropou and we are entitled every day to this choice. You have baptized, Minister, the recession, and now ELSTAT is undoing you. You have baptized the reduced EEZ and the agreements you signed with Italy and Egypt national successes. You have baptized the 'bafos' development investment and recognized the value of Mr Karanika. You did all this. It's baptism. You have baptized the crime and the excitement of lawlessness out there in law and order. Another impression we have about law and order. You've lost it somewhere. I have reached the point, Mr President. You are now baptizing the raw violation of the constitutional rights of the Greeks "digital vaccination certificate". It may not only be vaccination, but it is also the brainwashing that you have submitted to the Greeks who as such have passed it. Even the way you do it is very annoying and he says it all. You presented them as your supposed idea. You told us, Mr Georganta, and we were moved to the committee that Mr Mitsotakis, the Prime Minister of the Greeks, and not the New Democracy, began and went abroad to present us with his record, the certificate of vaccination, which is our idea, of course! Can't we start with anything else? That's all? You're the only one in the freckles, are you? Can't Greece lead? Who do you think you're kidding? You're Merkel's rabbits, normally. It wasn't your idea. They put us forward to open the way and to show these good ones and a little later to adopt your unconstitutional proposal. Because you're splitting the Greeks all the time. You're divisive. Another absurd measure, which divides the Greeks, is that. It is a measure that will create even more social automation. You have demolished the Constitution. You've reached the different point of view. You have targeted people who are concerned or have concerns or are in dilemma. You have hung them labels: "You are crazy, you are sprayed, you are dangerous." That's what you've done. You built people, you discriminated even among young children in schools. Go see how they act. You have imposed very well organized government television propaganda. What we've been living for two years has never been a precedent. Of course, organised propaganda for vaccines, for compulsoryity, for the isolation of the rest is very good, but television propaganda because the media, because it is interesting, presents the outbreak of crime every day annoying you. You say that this is not the case and that the channels are overstated. So crime exaggerates and health and vaccine issues don't exaggerate? So, whatever suits you and wherever it suits you. You have formed a totalitarian regime similar to what we have seen in the very dark times. Really, it's unbelievable. Apart from strong terrorists, however, on the subject of public opinion, you are unrepentantly hypocrites. You don't have the political bravery. Go out and tell the world: 'Yes, the vaccine will be mandatory'. For the first time we have said so, you said: 'No, there is no mandatory vaccination. But if you don't get vaccinated because you're scared, because you don't want to, because you want to wait or anything else you can't move in this life. You will be excluded socially.” Otherwise, it is not compulsory. Are you kidding us? I'm sorry, are you kidding us? Who are you kidding? You want so much to say that it's compulsory, but you don't know that there's no law and that there's no court that could have accepted that, or else you would have done it right away, I'm not talking about it. You're not giving up on effort. You've put lyrics and tied up, every day propaganda, threatening workers. Yes or no? Put them on the sidelines. Yes or no? Extortion. Yes or no? You have created an army of "blue blackmailers" from every industry that is miserably attempting to impose what you do not have the courage to unravel. However, you have put the rest of the well - paid, through research programs, doctors who are permanently wired in the channels. Aren't these people working? Is he in the windows all day? "The invasive people will not enter the shops from September," said Mrs. Igonis. What do you think, ma'am? Who are you to say that Greek citizens will not enter the stores from September? Who's that, Minister? Where are you going? Don't go.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u15	Here we go.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u16	There you are, but you're leaving. Who is Mrs. Igonis making this incredible statement? Who are you, ma'am, to tell Greek citizens they won't enter the stores from September? Ministers and MPs are threatening directly Greek citizens. As Adonis Georgiadis did, who said the day before yesterday that if we get vaccinated all of us will open the shops tomorrow. There's nothing else. Or vaccine or tanks. Nothing else. It's a minister's statement, a first-class official of your party. Mr. Petch on Saturday talked about fakes. I can't believe it again. With the trade unions you've lost the game. But you've got them. Blue trade unionists who, for a position in the party, are threatening redundancies. I heard yesterday the statement made by the President of Alpha Bank's employees who said to be fired. What do you say, sir? What do they say? The Liberal Party of New Democracy with the social person what does he say about these statements? Did Alpha Bank's blue trade unionist get out and tells anyone who's not vaccinated? Are you all right? Will you say to me: 'Will I be apologise now, Heta, for what he said?' He didn't say it by himself, believe me. 'Glazi' hoteliers, Mr Georgada, who only hire vaccinated officials and declare it proud, as if nothing had happened. Everything is enough for you to bend the resistance of people who are concerned, who are concerned, who are still unconvincing because you are not convinced. How can you convince them? Talk to them, explain them, do seminars, do lectures, explain to the world, you guys, since that's your goal. Not threatening them and telling them sprayed by Greek citizens. No, they're people who are worried, people who are concerned. That's it. You've been tagged everywhere. You do everything. Like there's no drugs, for example. There are four monoclonals so far. Where is he? There is the Papanikolaou medicine in Thessaloniki for lymphocytes. Where is he? "Sale the business first" and then the drugs will come out! We don't say. Everyone's gonna do whatever they want. But take out other weapons, which we've got in the patron, a serious health system, protection measures, monoclonal drugs, registration of the map by PCR test. There's a lot of them. It's not all there is, or you're not around. Looks like we have to finish the vaccine story and then go to the rest. Welcome, Mr. Pierracakis. You know what reminds me? It's the religion of fear. You have made a religion. We see it in the eyes of the world now. It is a religion built on the other side of the very religion of love and orthodox. It's the religion of fear. In one place there is the divine society, and here there is the'saving of the soul' in terms of vaccination. There's nothing else. And the sacred session of course is replaced by the Infections Committee. Where's the church? Where's the last one? Here we have huge social issues. Is there a church? Is there? Where's Jerome? Goddamn it. What is the church's position on extortion of workers? What's the church's position? Faced with the compulsion you're going to go through? What's the church's position? About the vaccines on our children? Let the church tell us. Unfortunately, Greece has not only an economic crisis. It has a crisis both in institutions and as far as the church's premier is concerned, as well as in the President of the Republic. Mr. Pierrakakis, listen to something. We believe you well. Everything you're doing at the Department of Digitals, you're doing. That you've digitised too many things, you have. I'll see you around. You can't be deprived of this thing. You're doing a job. But where is the “Government of the Excellents”? This is where you became the government of legislative acts. We've seen a lot of you, but this observance of a card from the Constitution really bothers us. Does he say anything to you, Mr Pierracakis, to Article 44 of the Constitution on the procedure for legislative acts? When can I get a legislative act? It says in Article 44 that ‘Legislative acts shall only be adopted in exceptional cases of extreme urgency and unforeseen urgency’. What is the exceptional urgency now? Come on, bring in last year, I understand that. You've arranged employment, hired staff to serve the hospitals, things, etc. I get it. Now, what is the urgent need? Legislative act, by the Constitution, must be adopted in dreadful fashion, due to exceptional needs, such as a great natural disaster, a direct and large-scale risk. And you, not only have made it a norm, but you are giving an unconstitutional new dimension at the moment, indeed, to the concept of 'extremely urgent'. In this way, you violate constitutional provisions, violate the articles of the Constitution that provide for the free development of personality, violate freedom, violate the inviolability of personal freedom. This is not just a simple certificate. We're talking about a complete file, with sensitive personal data, medical information, information on everything, name, surname, date of birth, if you've had a disease, when you've had a disease, the vaccines, type of vaccines, testing, and the list has no end. That's why you don't introduce a certificate. Unconstitutional legislation on the publication in the movement of personal files and medical records of persons. It's unconstitutional. Listen to me, Mr President. The Greek Solution has also submitted an application for unconstitutionality, which will be developed by Vassilis Viliardos. We are opposed to national vaccination records, national patient registers, every citizens' fresco. Greek citizens are not registered, Greek citizens are not numbers, so that you treat them like this, to be stripped and unprotected of all rights, the minimum content of which is provided for in the Constitution. We have now understood that your policies have no limits, they have no seals and, worst of all, they have neither principles nor values. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr. Heta. The reason is the Special Rapporteur of Mera 25 Mr. Fotini Bakadima.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u18	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating the ratification of the instrument of legislation on the issue of the digital certificate of vaccination, which entered our lives a few days ago. But it is true - and you are right in what you have put it and pointed it out, Mr Minister, in the committee - that the certificate, operation, version and utility of the digital transformation of our country on the one hand, but also another equally important part, an overall support and armoring plan, the strengthening of the National Health System and the armoring of health and care structures in our country, tourism, transport, the port and all aspects of our economy, cannot be discussed. There is no doubt that Greece has remained quite far behind in the fight against technological development and is still trying, by jumping, when other countries take smaller steps to prevent them, countries that are clearly in a better situation than us. Let us not forget that, until now, in many public services and in the House, fax was still being used as a means of communication. It makes sense to really try to reach the developments that run around us at a glossy speed. Nevertheless, we cannot do this without always taking into account the side of our moves. Let us see, for example, the website gov.gr, which will be called to raise the weight of issuing the digital certificate. Indeed, much of the cases of citizens who, until first instance, should go to a JEP or a public service to process them by way of gov.gr. I have to acknowledge and congratulate you on this that a problem that I, and other colleagues, have highlighted in earlier positions, should a citizen be identified at gov.gr to have e-banking codes now solved and identified through the Taxisnet codes. Nevertheless, we cannot in any way in the name of technological development and the need for the digital transformation of our country to close our eyes in all the bad texts we see. A sample of these is the legislative act we are debating today, which came last week, on 30 May, in a previous plenary in the form of an amendment, with several - we must note - shortcomings and ambiguities, an amendment that has lifted a wave of reactions, which forced you to withdraw and rescind it a few hours after we are debating today. The digital certificate shall state all aspects of the New Democracy, and not only political but also scientists, that it is intended to facilitate the exercise of the right of free movement of natural persons, his holders, during the coronary pandemic and to include information on the state of the person concerned, regarding vaccination, results of last trials, whether rapid-test, self-test, PCR or his or her coronary disease. As regards the information to be included, these will be a name, birth date, disease, type of vaccine, preparation, marketing authorisation holder or vaccine preparation, number in a series of vaccinations or doses, and date of vaccination session with an indication of the date of the last dose received. The information, of course, will change depending on whether the publisher has vaccinated it or has carried out any of the tests. Unfortunately, however, there are many loopholes here too, and we are very afraid that at a later stage we will actually see how to function as an online, a digital medical file, as it is not clear that we will stay in the coronary disease and vaccination for it, without, of course, being justified even in this case. Sadly, however, it is very likely that we will see somewhere further vaccines will be added, and other diseases, and other health problems, perhaps we will see something else very much later, which we fear, but unfortunately we are going that way. After all, no one can deliver it elsewhere, when we have all of us, not complaints, but citizens who are approaching us with anguish or rather a question. They wonder why, for example, while in their age group a vaccine had been opened, I speak before vaccination was opened and had the choice of both, three or four vaccines, the system itself directed him to a certain vaccine, other than that intended for his age group, and indeed, without the citizen being asked to be vaccinated. That's what you know, that's pretty weird. According to evidence we have, not even doctors in the vaccination centre when the citizen goes to be vaccinated and wonders why, for example, I had to do “AstraZeneca” and finally do “Moderna” or “Pfizer”, with no obvious reason, and they can't answer you, you know it's very strange somewhere. I continue, however, to return to the digital certificate we are discussing today, a certificate that entered into force at a time when tourist flows and visitors who choose Greece as a destination for their holidays have begun to increase by using it. The Prime Minister himself has not presented it as a fast-moving lane that will serve and facilitate our travel and entry into a tourist summer. Regardless of whether it will work as a fast-moving lane or not your digital certificate if something has shown us the pandemic of the coronary is that the National Health System should be strengthened, supported, strengthened hospitals and health centers of both the tourist regions and the inland with medical, paramedical and nursing staff, as well as with supplies, as it is already difficult, especially when we enter tourist season, to respond as they are to the increased needs of the age of the coronary, needs raised by pandemic, and in other cases have been neglected in the race of its management. However, as long as our islands see their population growing, and it is something that we really all wish, given that damage caused last summer will have to be covered and wounds left open, we will be faced with many major problems. In principle, the health structures of the tourist regions will be invited to deal with various problems, accidents, other health issues and the care needs of locals and visitors along with the increased needs for diagnostic tests to be carried out by visitors in a region. Thus, it is expected and fatal that the existent deficiencies in staff, supplies and infrastructures will function as a brake and that it is extremely difficult to meet all the new needs together with the existing needs that will arise especially now and as long as we go to August, which is usually the month of peaking the tourist current in our country. From the first moment to Mera25 we have urgently called for the strengthening of the ESS, the health and care structures throughout the country, unfortunately without results and without special attention being paid to the government. I am talking about aid with permanent staff, not with the AS's solution, nor with the solution to transfer from one hospital or from one health centre to another. Also, as soon as there was a problem with deficiencies in diagnostic tests - and we had such phenomena in the previous period - we showed it by asking for its immediate response. Are we really going to be ready for this year both in terms of the readiness of the islands and of the mainland as well as in terms of supplies and diagnostic tests to meet the needs of the islands? On a technical level, is the gov.gr platform ready to deal with all requests and mass requests that she will accept? I am abstaining because you will fall out of your design if something like this happens, not get to see images that we usually see at Taxisnet, when the reporting period opens, which very often we see dropping the system. Let me now close, passing through the technical piece of the certificate to the politician. I will repeat and I shall remind you above all of the citizens who are listening to us, because within Parliament it is something that we have all said, the President of the Mera25 Parliamentary Group, our Secretary, but also all the Members of Parliament, that our firm proposal and request are the creation of a network, a framework of mass tests carried out on the part of the citizens, as we believe it is the only instrument that can really block the dispersion of the krone. With regard to the digital certificate that was actually legislated with fast track procedures and with many ambiguities we shall vote against it for certain reasons. First of all, there is no insurance policy that will prevent citizens from being filed. Many CEOs would also give one more hand to be able to hold the sensitive data of the citizens stored for the issue of the digital certificate. And don't tell me that identification - as much as it is from e-banking - through Taxisnet, which belongs to the fully dependent Public Income Authority, is a safety test, because it really is not. Ladies and gentlemen of the Complex, perhaps if you had not entered into a contract with the sinful PALANTIR until a few months ago it was more likely that you could convince some people that the elements of the citizens are not at risk. But your cooperation with the specific data mining and processing colossal, which is involved - we all know - in the huge 'Facebook' and 'CAMBRIDGE ANALYTICA' scandal, and it seems to have been using citizens' personal data to influence the outcome of the American elections in favour of the Trump, cooperation which, after your own contract with 'PALANTIR', allowed it to set up a full crisis control centre for the Prime Minister, with the aim of managing the pandemic crisis, which may end last December, but which will be chasing you like a shadow, and here we will be talking about it and see it again as much as you are trying to evacuate it from above you. Now with the digital certificate you rushed to adopt and legislate in order to deal with the pandemic and facilitate travel will be recorded, processed and probably exploited either now or in future medical and other sensitive data from the citizens. This, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, is not a step towards the country's digital transformation, it is a step towards the full freckle, but also a back door to the malicious use of extremely sensitive personal data. Secondly, it is also almost certain that your digital certificate will lead to a relaxation of compliance with health protocols, which if we combine it with the incomplete measures in workplaces, in public transport, in your dystocia and your refusal to support the ESS in practice, it is assumed that it will lead to a deterioration in the situation. We therefore vote against your fast-track certificate, because it is another thing that I set up a network of mass tests, I shield health structures, I support the ESS, I implement the health protocols, I open up tourism and other activities with a plan and organisation, and it is another thing that I categorically categorically categorically categorically tell the citizens that I do it for their own good and health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mrs. Bakadima. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said at the beginning of the debate, an objection of unconstitutionalism has been raised by the President and the Greek Parliamentary Group. We shall therefore apply Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. I would remind you that one of the objectors will speak, I think Mr. Villard has declared a desire. It will be Mr. Plearis. The Presidents of the parliamentary groups are entitled to speak then, but they are not here. We have interpreted that Parliamentary Representatives can replace them, and, of course, the Ministers of State or Government at the end. So, Mr Villardo, you have the floor for five minutes with a slight tolerance, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u20	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we object and object because of the unconstitutionality of this draft law and, in particular, of the first Article 1 and Article 2 thereof, the arrangements underpinning Articles 5(1), (2), (3) and (4), 9A and 25(1) of the Constitution. In particular, the contested article first of Article 1 states that the CIVID Digital Certificate -19 is established in order to facilitate the exercise of the right to freedom of movement for natural persons. "Suppression" means that whoever does not have this certificate will limit his or her free movement, while containing strictly personal data of the face, including coronary coronary disease, with details of this disease, vaccination and vaccine type, testing, etc. The main human right is freedom of movement or establishment in the country. From the above provisions, and in particular the provision of Article 25(1), we note that freedom of movement is limited only by the Constitution or by law, where there is a reservation in favour of it, and that law respects the principle of proportionality. Article 5(4) of the Constitution stipulates that the restriction of freedom of movement may only be imposed as an incidental penalty by means of a judgment of a criminal court in exceptional cases of urgency and only for the prevention of criminal offences. As regards paragraph 4 of Article 5 of the Constitution, there is an interpretative statement setting out the following: ‘The prohibition in paragraph 4 does not include a prohibition on the exit by an act of the prosecutor on the grounds of criminal prosecution or the adoption of measures imposed on the protection of public health or the health of patients, as laid down in the law’. Since paragraph 4 relates to individual administrative measures, this interpretative statement also relates to individual administrative measures. That is to say, individual restrictions on the free movement of a citizen within his country because this particular citizen is dangerous to public health, that is, a weak contagious disease. However, the refusal of a healthy citizen to issue a CIVID digital certificate -19 does not fall under the above constitutional provisions and, therefore, the requirement of a digital certificate for free movement - "assistance" is called misleading - and indeed, by force on the face of his personal data to affect the core of the individual right of free movement of Greeks within their country and the protection of their personal data. The rival here is that the state doesn't know who's healthy and who's dangerous. The answer is to find ways of finding out, but not to violate the Constitution. It is not possible that the weaknesses of the state lead to a violation of the Constitution, as we have seen many times. Secondly, Article 2(2) stipulates that the 'promotion' - in introductory form - of free movement will be achieved by means of a CIVID-19 digital certificate, which will be issued at the request of the natural person. This provision is in breach of the above constitutional provisions because it forces the natural person to request the issue of the certificate itself in order for the State to cover its illegality behind that forced will of the individual. So our question is this: What happens when the person does not want to apply for a digital certificate? Obviously, he will not be allowed to move freely. Therefore, there is an unconstitutionality of the measure, in accordance with the above. Finally, Article 2(4) provides that the recipients of the CIVID Digital Certificate -19 and the personal data contained therein for the purpose of verifying its validity are the competent authorities for checking the necessary documents for the entry or transfer of travellers to the country. As this provision is formulated, apart from confronting the above provisions of the Constitution, it is completely unconstitutional as vague because it is confusing to whom it is concerned. Our question here is this: Is it only about those travellers who enter the country and are being retired or also about Greek travellers who travel within the country? In addition, does this digital certificate or not involve coming to work, to public transport and to various places? For all these reasons, which we have analysed with all the details in our written objection - we say something simply in summary - the proposed provisions are unconstitutional. We know, of course, that our Constitution has been violated tens of times by the constant memoranda imposed on us - we are already experiencing the fourth - but that does not mean we have to accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, too, Mr. Villardo. Mr Ploris has the floor on behalf of the contributors.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u22	In fact, Mr President, I am surprised at the selective reading of the Constitution, which has been made many times, when we debate objections of unconstitutionality, in order to find a political disagreement which we have to try to reproduce that conflicts with our own Constitution. You are referring here to the fact that this certificate is essentially an intervention of this kind which prevents the citizen from exercising his right to develop his or her personality and freedom of movement. I shall begin with something much more intense, which interferes with the citizen and has been judged to be compatible with the Constitution. In its recent decision of 2387/2020, the Council of State - because the Council of State is primarily associated with the investigation of constitutionality - had been called upon to decide whether a child whose parents refused to be vaccinated for children's diseases could or could not have been studying at the nursery. Parents had appealed to the Council of State, precisely with Article 5, saying that it violates the personality of the child and the free development of his personality. The Council of State, quite rightly, comes and says that all provisions of the Constitution are applied proportionately. We therefore come to Article 21(3) of the Constitution: 'The State cares for the health of its citizens'. What did the Council of State say? That care for public health is a constitutional obligation of the State and within this constitutional obligation is to prevent the spread and fight against communicable diseases. So it says the Council of State that on the one hand we have a parent who wants his child not to be vaccinated for the child disease to develop his personality. If this disease was not contagious, there would obviously be no question of discussion and analogy. However, since there is also the obligation of the State to prevent the transmission of infectious diseases, in this weighting the Council of State decided, by 2387/2020, that it is permissible to intervene and that the child was rightly expelled from the nursery because the health of other children was at risk. So, in a much more intense measure, Madam and gentlemen of the Greek Solution, which was to do with whether it would be able to watch a nursery if it had not been vaccinated, the Council of State took the view that it is constitutionally unacceptable and enforced by reason of the constitutional obligation laid down in Article 21(3) of the Constitution that no right can be exhausted and abused by the person who has it and must respect the rights of other citizens, which is the prevention of disease transmission. Here's something else I don't mean to say you haven't read it and you don't understand. I told you the top one there. Because here there is no obligation. I dare say that even if Mr Pierracakis and Mr Georgiotas would come here and say that the certificate is compulsory and there is no other procedure, it would still be constitutionally intolerable. But that bill doesn't say. What does the bill say? Anyone who has not been vaccinated, tested or has just been diseased by COVID takes a certificate that facilitates him not to have any other restrictions on moving from those who will have one who will choose not to remove the certificate and may be found in quarantine or any other passage followed. So, here we have a much softer intervention, which does not have the characteristics of compulsory intervention. It only has the characteristics of the facility and serves a basic constitutional check, which is about the prevention and transmission of infectious diseases. I am surprised that in your objection you are saying that Article 5(4), which shows that it is not based on constitutionality, in the interpretative statement, says that it is possible for a law to lay down measures to ensure public health. But that's just a measure to secure public health. It is also very mild because it comes and says that anyone who meets all these procedures, and so we have a presumption that he will not be dangerous to transmit the disease, transmit COVID -19 to our fellow citizens, he has a facility without the other person being excluded. What, then, would be the other constitutional measures that you say should be found? Tell us one here. We'll rely on each other's statement that I'm a healthy citizen, why do I feel that way? We therefore give the opportunity to be vaccinated and to have a certificate. A criterion, he's diseased. Second criterion for the certificate. Is he a vaccine-negative, as you may be in the Greek Solution? He'll do a test, so he says, here's the thing, I don't have a coronary. So what other measure do you consider there to be? Because in your proposal the next one is do not control at all or put the whole world into quarantine and then you will be responsible for the transmission of the disease. So we believe that this certificate, which was an initiative by the Greek Government, Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the heads of the Ministry of Digital Policy, which was adopted by the European Union as a whole, comes with the softest intervention that can be in the constitutional rights you call on. I mentioned the decision of the Council of State which considered it to be constitutionally tolerated much greater intervention, with the softer intervention that might be possible on the one hand to exercise individual rights and on the other hand to ensure public health. There is absolutely no point in the objection of unconstitutionality you have made.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u23	Who of the parliamentary representatives want to speak? It's not mandatory. Whoever wants it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u24	I would like to, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u25	I too, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u26	I'd like the floor, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u27	We're used to going backwards. From Mera25 do you want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u28	Of course, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u29	Mr. Gregoriadis has the floor. Please keep the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u30	Stay quiet, Mr. President. I'll keep him. Thank you very much for giving me the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, in the opinion of Mera25, the objection of unconstitutionalism which has just filed the Greek Party Greek Solution and Kyriakos Velopoulos is essentially based on a case. It is based, in other words, on the assumption that the reference to the draft law on the purpose of facilitating the exercise of the right of free movement of natural persons - its holders during the COVID pandemic -19 on the contrary, without expressly referring to it, means, of course, that, in accordance with the principle of non-constitutionality, freedom of movement will be restricted to the non-holders of the certificate in question. It is clear that the opposition to anti-constitutionalism concerns something that has not happened, that is, something that is destined and can happen. That's a problem. The most important problem, however, in our view, is what I will explain from now on. The right, in our opinion in Mera25, to freedom of movement is already extremely limited for public health reasons for the citizens of Greece because of the COVID -19 pandemic for the whole of our population for over a year and a half. This objection is, therefore, simply as it is formulated, somewhat delayed, in our view, from the Greek Solution and we consider that it is clearly a communication movement. This is, in our view, always seen by the al-card respect for the Constitution. Why am I saying that? Because the Greek Solution invokes Article 5 of the Constitution, which systematically rejects it. It has been rejected by many in this Chamber, every time it concerns refugees, homosexuals, anarchists. So let us remind ourselves that there are no misunderstandings as to what this herd paragraph 2 of Article 5 of our Constitution says. He says: "All those on our Greek territory enjoy the ultimate protection of their life, honor and freedom, without discrimination of nationality, race, language and religious or political beliefs." In our opinion, therefore, this is a communication firework. So who is this communication, in our opinion, always aimed at? It does not address those who on the one hand perceive pandemic in its real size, that is, a health threat and, of course, accept the vaccine as a public good, but, at the same time, fear the work of the pandemic by the oligarchy and its mandated politicians to consolidate it on the grounds of the pandemic of anti-democratic practices, such as the collection of medical data and their demonstration to non-public bodies, see businesses and insurance companies. This communication movement closes the eye, in our view, to the pandemic negligents, to the vaccine-negatives. We are voting against this objection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr. Gregoryde. Mr. Villard has developed his views. I don't think you want to add anything. Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece, Karathanasopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u32	Thank you very much, Mr President. We are clearly saying that this certificate is not related to the protection of public health, but rather is a tool to support the profitability of business groups and is being used as a pretext for the non-mortemness of the public health system, for non-compliance with the health protection protocols for workers at work or for the dismantling of public transport. In this respect, the nature of the specific certificate is apparent. Second matter. We say that not only does it not protect personal rights and personal data, but on the contrary it is exploiting them for business purposes. Thirdly, it can also be used as a tool for limiting individual rights, but also for discrimination against workers and people. From this point of view, Mr President, we say that this bill is an anti-liberal, anti-democratic, anti-democratic and we are voting against it. We are abstaining from the vote on the Greek proposal on the unconstitutionality.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u33	Mr. Scandalides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u34	Mrs. Giannakopoulou will speak for me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u35	You can't. We have said that when the Heads of State or Government are gone they are given the floor by the Parliamentary Representatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u36	I'll talk for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u37	Okay. Please bring us a supplement from the Secretary that you are a second parliamentary representative. We're not gonna stick there. You have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u38	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in our view, the inviolability of anti-constitutional objections is a practice which must be done with great care, with great grief and must be avoided, only on serious issues. From a position of principle the Movement of Change, Mr President, considers that the invoicing of the Constitution and its provisions must be done, as I said before, in pitiful and wise manner. The political controversy, yes, must be done with great rigour, as required by the institutional role of the whole Opposition, but not necessarily by a constitutional context. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am afraid that many times we are also leading to a constitutional activism in this Chamber that ultimately turns boomerang against this very serious process. So let us be very careful and speak in political terms, especially as we are primarily doing on our side and not by working on the Constitution. We are self-evidently voting against the objection of unconstitutionalism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u39	Thank you very much, Mrs. Giannakopoulou. Mr Marios Katsis, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u40	Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the issues of individual freedoms and personal data protection, we see that we need to deal with them more seriously and responsibly. You did not do that at the beginning of your governance. I recall the cases of ‘PALANTIR’ and ‘CISCO’, the legalisation of intangible prescribing, without having cooperated with the relevant Independent Personal Character Protection Authority, according to what the authority itself mentioned with a document to Parliament at that time in that bill. However, following our constant questions and the fact that we are bringing the subject of personal data persistently and constantly into the public debate, it seems that you have recently made a turn and given particular weight to the presentations you are making, as does the present draft law with a special article. However, since paragraph 4 of Article 1 of the Act of Legislation states that the recipients of the CIVID Digital Certificate -19 and the personal data included therein for the purpose of verifying its validity are the competent authorities for checking the necessary documents for the entry or transfer of travellers into the country, please introduce and accept that this certificate relates exclusively to cases of travel from a country to a country and not within the country. If you then proceed to use for travel within the country, there is a problem. We also understand from the above wording that the authorities that have access to the recorded personal data are those who, for example, now control passports and identities, where there is also personal data, so we invite you to apply those you are legislating. However, the sloppyness that you have seen in the legislature and the procedures, as you did, for example, with the intangible prescribing and came the document - confiscated by the Personal Character Protection Authority then leaves open cracks to question your intentions. In particular, you have tabled an amendment saying that 'by decision of the Ministers...'.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u41	Mr Katsi, for the unconstitutionality, please, on the substance of the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u42	Yeah, that's what I'm talking about, I'll end up. Let go of me! I am referring, Mr President, to an article in the legislative act. By way of comparison, you have brought an amendment saying that, by decision of the Ministers, additional data will be added to the persons issuing the certificate. You have allowed a huge hole to add sensitive personal data without going through the House. Now, however, you have corrected it in the text of the Act of Legislation, saying that non-personal data will be added. The text of the Act of Legislative content states that the digital certificate is to be established in order to facilitate the exercise of the right of free movement of natural persons - its holders during the COVID pandemic -19. In the first paragraph of Article 2, something different is written. There it is stated that the processing of personal data for the issue and use of the CIVID Digital Certificate -19 is to facilitate the free movement of its natural persons and holders. Why do you think that non-acquisition of a certificate will prevent free movement? Why do you not repeat here the phrase 'promoting the exercise of the right of free movement'? We call on you to change this phrase with legislative improvement in Article 2 and to indicate the wording of the instrument of legislation, since, in our view, it gives us more precise information about the purpose of establishing the certificate. Finally, in order to unravel the scenery and no doubts, we invite you to submit the opinion of the Privacy Authority for the Digital Certificate. Furthermore, since its publication was launched on 1 June, we invite you to submit the information required by Article 28(3) of the GDPR Memorandum of Cooperation, which HICP should already have concluded as the controller for the processing of personal data with the EDD as the controller. Is that there? If there is, testify. We are therefore voting against the call for unconstitutionalism, but we call on the government to produce all those documents that substantiate that all the procedures provided for in the European and national legislative framework are strictly followed, so that there is no doubt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr. Katsey.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u44	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u45	Wait a minute, Mr. Villardo. Mr. Brutsi, will you take the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u46	In the end, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u47	Mr. Villardo, because you said you wouldn't talk, that's why I overcame you. Here, you have the floor - in addition you said - for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u48	I need a minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u49	I'll give you two.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u50	I just wanted to respond to what has been said in a few words, because I do not want to exaggerate. Now, with regard to the government's reference to political feasibility, as its representative said, on our behalf, we would ask him - we would really be beg him! - not to judge the odds themselves. Our task is to do nothing more, as we at least experience it. Now we are sure that it would find a way of justifying its objections, but it has, in general, described all the memoranda as constitutional. Therefore, if it is possible not to characterise the current legislative act as a constitutional act. What has bothered us - has bothered me particularly, and very much too - is that it has characterised us as vaccine objections. We're not against vaccine. In no case do we object to vaccines, against the mandatoryity of each vaccine, we are, not only of this vaccine, directly or indirectly. We call this from the outset and ask our colleague to withdraw what he has said. As far as the charges are concerned, we consider it strange to a party that has voted for the memorandums, the PSI, which is part of the internal troika, which has left nothing to vote on - all unconstitutional - and now comes to blame us for something that is completely normal and for which we believe that our objection, the one we have tabled in every detail, was correct and had nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u51	Scientific opinions are those, Mr Villardo, and I don't think no one wanted to offend your party, alas. Mr Yiannis Vroutzis, Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, has the floor. You said, Mr. Brutsi, do you want the floor for two minutes or three?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u52	For two minutes, Mr President, very soon. The proposal for unconstitutionalism by the Greek Solution, ladies and gentlemen, can be evaluated at two levels. The first is the political and second is the purely legal - constitutional. At political level, the proposal for unconstitutionalism is considered highly hypocritical, in the sense that on the one hand it closes the eye to the objections to the vaccine and on the other hand, by not making the slightest proposal as an alternative to the digitalised certificate, it comes to closing the eye on the other side which says "all freely, without any framework and rules, let the cases increase and denounce the increase in cases the next day". This is called an extremely hypocritical communication fire only for the eyes, Mr. Comrade. The second is on the substance. As our excellent rapporteur - conceived by Mr Thanasis Ploris, the anti-constitutional proposal on the part of the Greek Solution is unfounded, is waste, is vague and completely incomprehensible. In practice, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of the digital certificate is not a precondition for exercising the right to freedom of movement. On the contrary, it fully respects the fundamental rights of citizens, including the protection of personal data and the fundamental right to free movement in the European Union, which is also not considered a travel document by the European Union, but also by any national authority. So everything you said before is being completely demolished. In fact, although it is not a condition for free movement, its use is expected to be considerably facilitated and has a very positive effect on our country, but also on tourism throughout Europe as a whole this year - something that we are seeking first and foremost, Mr Colleague, here in our country because of our great interest in tourism - but also on the other hand, to make it easier for the citizen to move. Therefore, your proposal is voted against for our part as a waste, unbridled, sloppy and hypocritical.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr. Brutsi. Although it would be unnecessary to apply the voting procedure for the vote, because anyway the rapporteurs... I'm sorry, the Minister has the floor. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think Mr Ploris, with great completeness and clarity, has rejected any arguments concerning unconstitutionality. I would like to focus on what Mr Brutsis said and extend them a little further. This certificate, as has already been mentioned, is not a precondition for exercising the right to free movement as it arises from European treaties or from our Constitution. On the other hand, it contributes to the effective implementation of this right. Why? Because if we had to say it in a phrase, it is a tool that is facilitated and not discriminatory. It will help to make it easier for a citizen to exercise the right to freedom of movement more easily, proving each time that he fulfils any requirements that each Member State puts in relation to public health. To close with two spots very quickly. One is what would have happened if it had not been adopted. The twenty-seven Member States should have entered into bilateral agreements with each other, together with a total of three hundred fifty-one, and now there is a huge design of European interoperability which also contributes to personal data, because fragmentation would have created huge issues and major risks. These provisions have come with the help of the Privacy Authority, taking into account their observations. I conclude by thinking that this certificate, an initiative by Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis at European level that has been technically developed by Greek engineers, is consistent with the country's vital interest. Because the rapid restoration of normality, the rapid reintroduction of tourism is a vital concern for us. That is precisely why, because it concerns us all, we should have voted in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, too, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate under Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure on the issue of unconstitutionalism has been concluded. In view of the fact that all parties have expressed themselves, it is clear that the objection of non-constitutionalism is rejected, but I will ask the rapporteurs to vote in view of the fact that the procedure provided for in the Rules of Procedure cannot be applied, in view of the specific circumstances that we are facing. Mr. Gregoriadis?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u56	We are against, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u57	Mr. Heta?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u58	For you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u59	Mr. Karathanasopus?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u60	The Communist Party of Greece is far from the point of view, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u61	You're abstaining, yes. Mrs. Yannakopoulou?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u62	Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u63	Mrs. Gara?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u64	Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u65	Mr. Zebble?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u66	Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u67	The objection of unconstitutionality is therefore rejected. We're entering the speaker's circle. In order to organise the debate, three speakers may also speak if they so wish and say so. Mr Christos Kelles has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, our country is constantly returning to normality, balanced between health security and the resumption of activities which were inactive because of the pandemic. The course of vaccination is progressing successfully in the population and in conjunction with the great self-test weapon, which has made a decisive contribution to preventing and declining cases, we are now introducing another strategic instrument, both to tackle pandemic and to restore economic activity. The ratification of the Act of Legislation on the CIVID Digital Certificate -19 and the guarantees for the protection of personal data we are discussing and vote on today under the constitutional provisions of Article 44 is a piece of legislation that allows us to take our lives back, without limitations and without asterisks. This is a bill, which has as its principles freedom, development and security. The digital certificate shall ensure the free and uninterrupted movement of citizens, both in outdoors and indoors, both within the Greek and European territory, if they have been vaccinated or tested rapid test or PCR, as well as in case they have been and have been treated. This is a means of lifting the restrictions imposed by the pandemic, which our country has, and will apply since 1 July throughout Europe, thanks to the sensitivity of Greek Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, who first captured the need to establish and issue the certificate throughout the European Union. Greece has already implemented this measure since last week through the legislative act, leading together with a large number of our partners, establishing stability and paving the way to development. Ladies and gentlemen, in whatever area each of us belongs, I do not think that freedom of movement is a fundamental prerequisite for development. Along with the free movement of goods, services and capital, the movement of persons composes the four fundamental freedoms on which the European structure and any successful economic integration project is based. For Greece the recovery of this freedom will not only contribute to the better functioning of the market and business, but will stimulate tourism that is one of the main pillars of our national economy. Because we have heard from individual fortunately voices from the minor Opposition 'why was the act of legislation adopted and ratified so quickly'? When it is slowly ratified, 'why is it being ratified late', when it is quickly ratified, 'why is it being ratified quickly'? But I'll tell you something else. Ask our islanders to tell you why and not just them. Ask my neighbors on the coast of Larissa Prefecture, the businessmen who are waiting for the tourist economy to get back forward. Ask, not only the professionals active in the coastal areas of the country, but also those who have invested in mountain tourism. Thank God our homeland has inexhaustible beauty and wide choices both in the mountain and in the sea for almost all year round. That is why we had to adopt the legislative act and meet the urgent need of our compatriots throughout the country to finally work. The right to work is sacred, it is not bent by ideologies or conspiracy. We propose science against fantasy. Because medical science is the one that wins the pandemic and thanks to it humanity has been saved and the average life expectancy has increased, we must put an end to the scenarios and political opportunities that move them and find the right ground and audience in times of crisis, such as today. No, ladies and gentlemen, with the digital certificate, no one is inspected or controlled by the population, as some people are quoted as'sprayed', as the Prime Minister has described them. The reality is that this legislation strengthens the security of citizens without infringing their personal data. No one has the right to transmit the virus to his fellow humans, because he is negative or because he thinks he is inappropriate. The digital certificate shall be valid until the risk of pandemic is eliminated. Depending on those who make use of it, the necessary data, i.e. the name, date of birth and data relating to vaccination or testing or disease, are to be processed. The authorities shall keep the data as appropriate for a period of time and when it expires do not store them, as expressly referred to in Article 2 of the draft law. It should also be noted that the processing of personal data is determined in accordance with the General Data Protection Regulation of the European Union and its applicable legislation of Law 4624/2019. Thanks to the wide potential of digital governance, which is one of the top achievements of the Mitsotakis government, every citizen can print his certificate from the Single Digital Gate, that is, from gov.gr and carry out his activities without hindrance. Already a hundred and seventy thousand fellow citizens have issued the certificate and exploit it wherever necessary, gaining accessibility and time in whatever activity it needs. Therefore, no one is prevented or monitored, but public health is protected, moves are facilitated and our life returns to normality. Ladies and gentlemen, after a year and a half of battle with the pandemic and recession that it has brought about, social and economic life is restored and our country regains new possibilities - such as in the area of digital governance - which makes it more competitive and pioneer in both Europe and internationally. From the outbreak of the global health crisis to the present day, where the situation is considerably improved throughout the world, Greece is a model for dealing with the coronary. That is why the citizens also trust Kyriakos Mitsotakis, who also has vision and program in order to quickly bring the country back to development, according to the strong command of governance we received from Greek women and Greeks two years ago. In honour of this mandate, we welcome this draft law and of course we are voting in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Mr. Kelles. Mr. Christos Giannoulis from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u70	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not know how history and coincidence sometimes bring them, but by listening to Mr Kelles, all I could not understand is at which point of noise and music is in line with our normality and adaptation to what is laid down by law and health conditions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u71	Don't interrupt, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u72	Tell us what turn of the zeabeck - because, of course, with any teacher sitting, you will learn such letters - it is where public health is protected! Who? In the deep seat? On the sound? In the co-mortem? How's it going? But isn't there any elementary sensitivity and shame to go up to this Step and do us some valuable lessons for your wise and consensual policy, at the same time that you've been caught yourself in violating what millions of Greeks do? Then you target them? Mercy! The only thing you're responding to is noise? There's the apology! It's not just noise and disapproval! But I repeat: After the walks and the motocross, with any teacher sitting, you will learn such letters! [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] I know that your method toward the truth - because there are few breaches - is noise and bamboo. I'm going to stand up to it. For a long time I have watched Mr. Plori to read the Constitution to answer the request for unconstitutionality tabled by the Greek Solution. In the same constitution you know, Mr. Plori, he writes something else. It says that every Greek is equal to the law. Is the former Minister of the New Democracy, covered by Angelis, a key witness in the construction of Papagelopoulos, equal to the law as well as Mr Papagelopoulos or as we are? Because I see you on the move - you are obviously expecting Prime Minister Mitsotakis - tell me: Is there an answer to the question, which former Minister of the New Democracy is for whose sake Mr Angelis, the former Deputy Prosecutor of the Ice Bay, refused to receive information on transparency, public money, procedures that led the country to bankruptcy in 2009? Are we now talking about whether you are baptising a process, the CIVID-19 certificate, as a certificate opening the avenues of development for tourism? I don't know if they're answers that we're getting today from Mr. Mitsotakis, but you know what? History often repeats itself as a prank. The first time was the process and the debate on patents. Yes, sir. What happened? Having the country under a prolonged, multi-annual economy - which has been transformed into a health crisis - we play the shadow theatre of who expressed it first, we paraphrase and distort the truth, because the truth is simple and practical - was formulated by the President of SYRIZA - and then, like young children, with total ignorance of the reality, we are entangled as to whether Kyriakos Mitsotakis is the bearer of the idea of the patent of vaccines. How do you respond as a parliamentary group and as a political party? You are voting against this in the European Parliament when it comes to debate. Are we kidding? Are we kidding? Is this a framework of national consensus and consensus, which will lead this place, these citizens, outside the problems, to the health and economic crisis? You're kidding that with this kind of poaching, the criminal behavior of November will be forgotten with the signature of Mr.Mitsotakis, where a city plunged into death and darkness, because some - some! - did they consider that they could circumvent, circumvent data and information and override micro-party political perception? This is paid not only by your resignation, they are paid by the credibility of the political system, which is the only way out for democracy to return to normality and not just society in normality. Now, because we are talking about the certificate, Mr Pierrakakis, joking, if you could - because you are a smart man and a productive person - with your digital skill, to inoculate, to strengthen the artificial intelligence of the New Democracy or its press office, so that when we discuss the case of the scandals, the scandalous lending of the New Democracy, the 'love and fierce', there is an appreciably improved intelligence that will not answer barrens - shells with 300 million loan and wild to the banks at the expense of the Greek citizens. I'm finally entering the digital certificate.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u73	Now? After five minutes? Your time is over.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u74	Time's not over. The truth a little bit hurts you, but what to do, that's it. The truth has cracks.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u75	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u76	It hurts you, it bothers you, but that's reality.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u77	Please don't engage in dialogue too. [[Noise]] Please, ladies and gentlemen, do not interrupt. You will reply later, if you wish, those of you who are registered.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u78	I understand that it's annoying the truth with which you're divorced, that it's tough. But that's the truth. So, as far as this study and your sensitivity to tourism are concerned, do you know from which countries they come to Greece? Do you think it's just from Germany? Maybe they believe it in the entertainment center Mr. Kelles was the other day. However, English come mainly, there are also Balkans, who are Balkans, Mr Pierrakakis, who live every day the suffering of the border stations of our country, where endless tails are formed, because your design is really rough, as was the design of the Mitsotakis Government where the tails are formed, because they are also subordinated and the units of EGE are under-represented. [[The President-in-Office of the Council of the European Communities, Mrs Sakhara Sakhara, is elected by the President-in-Office of the Council of the European Communities and is elected by the President-in-Office of the Council of the European Communities.]] More generally, there is a problem of operation even with the working time of these border stations. Those who expect tourist traffic in Thessaloniki, Halkidiki, Pieria, Kavala, Thassos, other islands... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Can you give me a minute, Madam President? Those who are looking forward to tourist development in these areas, unfortunately, your certificate, the certificate that is not what you are describing, is something else - 'it is not what you think', as they say in the sirials - cannot help significantly, because if these people decide to come, they will live the odyssey of approaching our border stations. In conclusion, I will say this: If you really felt interesting, sensitive, pain, real need to help things, from the very first you would start, it would be tracking, which we have been talking about for months, and which you consider to be a minor issue - you prove it in practice - the vaccination in the tourist areas - not only in the islands, but in the tourist resorts in Greece and in mainland Greece, as I described - and certainly ways to ensure that tourists enter each gate of entry, without going through the Odyssey of the reality of New Democracy. I'll close the way I started. Whatever you do, not only history and truth find a way to show, but history is punishing. It punishes those who have the impression that at the time they offer their homeland, they are in fact significantly damaging its development and progress.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u79	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Mr. Boumbas has the floor from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u80	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we must consider our responsibilities towards this new digital age as structured. The history of medicine, as far as pandemics are concerned, has to teach us a great deal, but we have to say that this is the first time that pandemic is in our electronic - digital age - with everything that that implies - and it wants to pay attention to what we call humanity, the personality and the entity of man. This fear of man is that we should not apply the keyhole policy and have us the solitude syndrome of the crowd, against an electronic standardised age, which wants to control faces, things and situations. We are trying to safeguard the health of citizens, but here we must not all consider, for example, the Oviedo Treaty, what the vaccine means and under what conditions? We say the vaccine is an achievement of medicine. But you cannot, in introductory terms - 'commitments', particularly in a pandemic which has not yet completed its cycle, people in order to move quickly. It's what the Prime Minister said would be a fast-moving lane. That means a lot. Today, if you see the youth outside, you want to be vaccinated only so that you can quickly go to the islands to have a summer vacation. It's a truth, listen to the youth. It says "I will go, to get the certificate and go to the Cyclades to take a vacation in order not to put me on an endless, painful process". When this proposal from the Prime Minister of Greece went to Elderly, ‘Continent, there were reactions. What were all the respondents? Were they jammed? Were they sprayed? Were they negative? The largest newspaper in Austria has reported on the reservations it has in order not to separate the states of Europe, the citizens of Europe, first and second categories. There were reactions from the Romanian Prime Minister, also considered Merkel's favorite child, Johannes. He also spoke of this distinction between states. There were reservations. He needs attention. We're still in the period of mutations. Many times the President of the Greek Solution Kyriakos Velopoulos says that at least three years should elapse. But it's the history of medicine! There have been reactions and there have been reactions from the German Interior Minister, Horst Zehoff, who said that this will go to a two-speed distinction towards the citizens of Europe. So, we're gonna have the horsemen and the non-seasoners? Are we going to have the patricks and the pistols? He wants attention! When this proposal by the Prime Minister was made in IATA - I welcome him to plenary - IATA, the international air carrier, saw it positive. However, IATA is also accused of a ticket cartel that forms world-wide prices. So here's the attention to the solitude syndrome of the crowd, which the societies of nations are experiencing today and which wants us finally to consider our responsibilities in a digitized era, which can control things and situations from where you do not expect it. After all, the debates that are now taking place worldwide are about e-medical medicine. You have not heard of electronic medicine, including medical records, will there be prescriptions for medicinal products between the Member States of the European Union, and there will be personal data and data? Fear guards deserts. There is a fear justified by the citizens, because he has seen it with the banking system. There's personal evidence. Who doubts that? In short, the last banks will, as of 1 July, abolish the traditional savings registers. We are, we are living in an electronic era of teleworking, teleconferencing, distance. But this distance should concern us with the 'human' factor. According to Aristotle, as a social being, if we lose close contact, aura, smell and smell, people will print. A certificate is the anchor of Haul and the fear of people, because we do not know how to exploit it and how the Member States, groups, companies, banks, airlines in the future will use it. We are therefore entering a time when there will be an electronic check, which concerns the next generations. The polio vaccine was discovered after forty-forty-five years. Polio, the only virus that hits the nerve cells, appeared in 1916- shortly before the 1918 Spanish flu, and the vaccine came out in 1952, after too many investigations. Now, you tell me, the medicine has jumped. He has not made big leaps to the only form of life outside of a cell, such as the virus in humanity, still studying him. There were vaccines, diphtheria, meningitis. Even the H1N1 flu that has made the mutations after 2018 H2N2, H2N3, Mexico’s flu, Hong Kong’s flu, was H12 in the Netherlands. If anyone reads the history of medicine, they'll see that the mutations are still inexhaustible. The vaccine needs time. He wants the tests. He wants to grow. He wants his labs. As much as the electronic age advances, it creates gaps. So today we must protect the human being, not to feel a second-class citizen, not to feel interfering, not to feel one by one, when he cannot have that certificate. "But having been removed, or broken, you are misfortune," said Thucydides. This opinion is very serious if we take it into account and analyse it. Because it is shameful to lose - the great Thucydides said - what you have, rather than being able to acquire something else. It should not, therefore, be the man who should lose his personality, his personality, his aura, his social contact with a code which, although the government says he will only have the vaccination elements, is at risk, because 'fighting the appetite opens'. What do we say? In no case is it compulsory. If you say so to the governors, the Prime Minister says so, you all say so, but the one who doesn't have the certificate will be afflicted. He'll get into a process of dazzling, which will trouble him and trouble him. So, indirectly, but clearly, you should get the certificate to move in comfort. It is too early to speak of such certificates, against an electronicised era of the Internet, which is the first pandemic in global times that is done via the Internet and everything that that implies in order to protect the core. What's the core? Human beings, personality, entity, human aura, soul and body. That is what we need to protect today, ladies and gentlemen. Don't turn people's numbers and numbers and certificates. We must protect them, explain them, so that they are certainly not uninformed, they can be considered. However, under no circumstances should we lead them in our own way to politics, which concerns all of the Elderly, and not just Greece, in order to create citizens - within introductory words - 'disciplined', legislators, but whose family, personal life, their personality, these acquired ones, must be protected. [[The President-in-Office of Parliament, Mr KONSTADINOS TASOULAS, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council.]] So this concerns us, the Greek Solution, and we say that we should not discern the citizens into two categories or force them because of an endless process and various procedures - which will be a lot of trouble - so that someone can get rid of all this circumstance, go to do the vaccine and get the certificate, against his will. That is why we are saying that we need to respect the Oviedo Treaty and Article 5 of the Oviedo Treaty as to how the vaccine is being used. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, too. The Prime Minister and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis is called at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I wished to join the House today in highlighting the importance of the European CIVID certificate -19, as you know, already applies in our country, its role in the process towards a safer and more free summer, but also its special contribution to the effort of tourism to open up the recovery cycle for the whole of the national economy this year. However, I am here and for another record of the battle with the pandemic, which is now planning the battle for prosperity, because as the exit from the crisis is now visible, we can say that, since the time of the incidents, we are gradually entering the age of recovery and, without in any way being reassured about the danger, it seems that we are now going to go ahead with it. If vaccination is an antidote to our health coronary, the digital certificate was a first tonic injection for our economy. I would remind you that this is a bold Greek initiative, because we were the first to suggest it to the European institutions, first to meet the strong distrust of our partners. But after a few months that proposal from Athens, which was presented in January this year, is a reality of Europe. It is proof that even at the darkest point of the third wave, in January of this year, the country had a plan and showed predictability of what will happen in the months ahead. When we met at the European Council in December, I pointed out to my counterparts that something which at the time was very far away, namely how we could travel freely in the summer, should have been systematically prepared and worked at European institutions' level to make a reality. That is what we have achieved and achieved at European level, as you know, so that we can reach an agreement between the European institutions on a European regulation usually takes years. This time, at European level, we managed to achieve this in two months' time, and, of course, Greece was from the first wave, and I was informed that it was only today that, Minister two countries were added, Spain and Lithuania - and we hope that, gradually, all countries will be included in this European certificate which will allow for the absolute interoperability between the databases of the national health systems of all European countries. I would like to remind you that we have been at the forefront of initiatives at other levels. We were from the first, if not the first country, which used self-test mass and then we accepted this criticism from the opposition, but the self-test results are very encouraging. We were the first country we had last summer, when we had much less weapons at our disposal, we used an intelligent system of artificial intelligence, an algorithm, so that we could do more targeted tests at our borders. Of course, with regard to the major European initiatives, I would like to remind you that it was Greece together with seven other European countries that we first put together in European dialogue last March the need to have a great European economic reaction to the huge economic recession caused by the coronary. The result of this initiative was, of course, the Recovery Fund, which was finalised at a Marathon Summit last July. So it seems, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, that we can turn tests into opportunities. And, of course, this is not only about the digital certificate, but also about the huge progress that has been made in digitising the services of the state apparatus. Through gov.gr I think we have achieved months of things that might take years to do. Of course, in terms of the certificate itself, along with the information contained in it, it also states our country's readiness to welcome the next day. As you know, it is extremely simple. You understand that they have already made more than two hundred and thirty thousand of our compatriots. The citizen enters the relevant platform with the Taxisnet codes through the special platform of gov.gr, declares his details if he has been vaccinated, if he has a negative test or if he has already had a disease. This declaration shall be cross-checked immediately and the certificate shall be issued automatically. We are therefore not talking - for those who have legitimate concerns about personal data - about a health identity or another travel document. It is the response to the juncture we have to face. It is a development which ultimately opens the way for the most free communication between citizens and, of course, the relaunch of economic activity in Greece and Europe. It is ultimately the digital certificate a strong, a solid bridge towards the post-COVID era. Ladies and gentlemen, the implementation of the European certificate is to supplement the many which have been done in our country over the last sixteen months. Like all countries, we have mourned many casualties. But it is now extremely encouraging that cases are rapidly deviating and hospitalisation is decreasing at an even faster pace. It is also extremely worrying - to respond indirectly to the previous speaker - that today, unfortunately, the overwhelming majority, with few exceptions, - if I am not mistaken, are five - those of our fellow citizens who have been invaded in intensive treatment units, are our fellow citizens who have not done the vaccine and have not made it a choice because they are our citizens of older age and have been able to make the vaccine in recent months. That is something that should give us all a great deal of thought. But I'm keeping the positive. I was just looking at the evidence. A month ago, in early April, we had more than eight hundred fellow citizens persecuted. Today it is under the three hundred sixty and we believe that this path of declining will continue, as well as the course of new hospitals has been dramatically reduced. This is because of one main reason: vaccination. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] It is not only a Greek phenomenon, it is a global phenomenon, as vaccination is progressing quickly, a wall of immunity is gradually built, cases are being reduced, firstly we protect our most vulnerable fellow citizens. Today these relatively limited numbers of cases, if you look at the middle age, concern our very young fellow citizens, who have obviously not yet been vaccinated and who are generally asymptomatic, hence the great importance of self-tests, so that we can identify exactly these cases. We've exceeded six million vaccinations. We're at the six million two thousand and something about the entire vaccinations. More than two million of our three hundred fellow citizens are fully vaccinated. The number of vaccinations is about 100 thousand per day. In other words, 1% of the Greek population is vaccinated every day through "Freedom". It is a grand-collection project without precedent that combines technology on the one hand with smile and on the other it is a very pleasant surprise for the citizens, but I also believe it is a tradition for those who serve "Freedom". Of course, I think it is worth a special mention in the vaccination campaign on the islands, the 'Blue Freedom', which is coming to expand the scope of the CIVID certificate and underline the advantages of the islands. I found it, moreover, in my recent visit to Antypalea. Talking to the residents I saw their readiness to make their island not only green, but also safe and full of visitors. This example - which is the rule, but unfortunately there are also exceptions - must be extended immediately to those areas which are still lagging behind. There are now regions in our country which, for special reasons which may be understandable and some who are incomprehensible to me, fall short of vaccination rates. And there I would ask all Members of Parliament and of the Com mittee on Co-Population to be helpful so that in these areas too, which may be treated with some scepticism, they can increase their participation in the process of vaccination, so that we do not have pioneers and have no pigs, much more so that, soon, all citizens will have access to the vaccine that they want to do. This is the only way, that is, mass vaccination of our fellow citizens who have not yet been vaccinated, to exclude a fourth wave of the coronary. Only in this way will we protect the health, but also the pocket of every citizen, the national economy, but also the precious reputation of our country. In Greece, new horizons cannot be sceptical about science and their own good. I should like to make a reference to what I have heard from the previous speaker, who has made an interesting historical regression in the history of vaccinations. You referred to the polio vaccine, which is a personally painful story, as my mother had become ill with polio before the vaccine was found. But let's tell the truth. The greatest success in medicine in the twentieth century was mass vaccination. We should call it emphatic. There was no greater scientific success than that. Let's just put them aside. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] It is a huge scientific success that we have succeeded and developed vaccines, including extremely modern and innovative methods in less than a year. It's a miracle of science that's happened. In short, as far as the issue of vaccination is concerned, I am convinced that the state has so far used it and its official position on the issue of compulsory vaccination of health workers and elderly people. Very shortly after my request, the Bioethics Committee will be consulted publicly. The government, taking into account its opinion, will decide with sensitivity and clear priority on public health. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] For other activities, however, it will be the same life and reality that will succeed today's appeals. I am referring specifically to this debate which has begun for the facilities - I prefer this term to be the prerogatives or freedoms - which may have our fellow citizens who are vaccinated. It is a debate, which will begin very soon and its official starting point will be the time when, as I said before, many of our fellow citizens will be able, within a short period of time, to have access to the vaccine they wish to have. No one - to give just one example - in the autumn, for example, will be able to forbid a businessman from saying that he accepts only our fellow citizens in his shop. However, I prefer the right to come from society itself rather than impose it on it. And that's why I'm calling back all our fellow citizens into a new vaccination wave. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that in these sixteen months the National Health System was strengthened by thousands of healthcare professionals. Now, six hundred permanent posts of doctors are being opened and in September another four thousand nine hundred, primarily nurses, will be called. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We received five hundred fifty-seven meths. At the moment, they are approaching the thousands of five hundred, while our hospitals now have huge equipment and our doctors have a huge experience. And all of this will be a real pity to spend on an unnecessarily autumn probe with the virus. On the other hand, the foundations of the next day for public health, with weight in primary care, but also in the interoperability of hospitals, the establishment of regional structures with special incentives for our villages and islands, the aggressive promotion of prevention strategies and, of course, the necessary modernisation of many health systems with the approximately 2 billion intended for this purpose by the Recovery Fund, as well as by the new NRP. For all of this, however, we will have the opportunity to discuss the next period. I return to the European CIVID certificate, because I consider it a key to tourism, which will in turn mobilise many links to the market chain. We should therefore address it, not only as a development with a sanitary sign, but as an action with a strong social and economic imprint. The first signs of the tourist movement are positive for our country. However, there is a need for substantial financial support for the tourism sector, as it makes the transition from the closed activity of the past few months to the open reception activity of visitors who will come and come to our country this summer. I would remind you that a few days ago the government announced the special programme, which will support all the operators in the sector, with ECU 420 million for hotels, rooms, accommodation, as well as tourist agencies and tour buses. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Almost half a billion will thus be directed as a direct subsidy, particularly for small and medium-sized enterprises, to support the first difficult months of their reopening. It is a new action on the road that I would remind you that it was preceded by support for the focus. It is also framed with a new project "Tourism for All", exclusively for our Greek fellow citizens. This year, it will also be on August, funding 20% more than in the past three hundred thousands of OAS beneficiaries, to support domestic tourism and take a holiday as many of our fellow citizens as possible. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] With these measures, a multi-level protection net has been completed, which has been extended for sixteen months by the state to keep the economy and the world of work upright. It paid the wages and contributions of workers who were suspended, transferred the payment of all debts and the payment of the cheques, reduced and finally deprived the rent for the professional housing and, of course, the multiple cycles of the repayable advance offered continuous financing, continuous liquidity in the businesses. As a result, GDP decline was only 2.7% compared to the pre-COVID period - I am referring to the first quarter of 2021 - when, for example, Spain reached 4.3%. The growth rate of the economy is being reviewed upwards and Greek bonds gather unprecedented international confidence. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, with this data the hope for the end of the pandemic can be transformed and it must be converted into the beginning of a new national agreement. The challenges of the future do not stand up to the challenges of the past, nor do dark approaches stand by the light reality. I would therefore call on all opposition to take on the creative role it owns and to keep up with the rest of the country ahead. I do not forget that there has been a winter of blind complaints, with false or even selective claims, with a petty question, open to the fact that it is turned into a sanitary sabotage, when at the risk of demonstrations when the virus experienced, when even the underestimation of the vaccine itself, which reminds us that it was only called last November 'embol of hope', which the government has devised, and yet the words that they wanted to see'stricken' the twenty-five thousand vaccinations a day, when the country firmly touches the hundreds of thousands today. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] There are still words and irresponsible words about so-called 'acute vaccines', the ridicule of self-tests, which I repeat functioned perfectly, or the undersecret dispersal of rumours about 'unapproved' treatments that the government supposedly does not provide citizens. All this is well known, as we know, is also the ridicule, even of the COVID certificate itself, as a certificate of urgency and incompetence, but also the celebrations of "AGEI" when Europeans supposedly "emptied" the Greek proposal at first. The follow-up showed, of course, who was right, who is competent in politics, and who is miserable observer from her lair. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So let's put an end to this. These at some point have to stop, they have to teach us and change us. Because I think you have realised that the opposition to the pandemic is finally becoming opposition to the country. All this must stay behind us, along with the coronary. The vaccine of immunity to become an antidote of nonsense, as there is no room for other splits. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The treatment of the virus, with its well and its difficulties, is a victory collective and the rapid recovery after the coronary is a national cheque. So, Minister, the unanimous ratification of the European COVID digital certificate can now mean a new beginning. I understand - if I have understood correctly - that following reservations, asterisks, non-respect of intent, Remuneration will vote for the digital certificate. It's a positive development, if that really happens. It will be a united vote on Greece's successes and potential. It will be a cross-party approval on an important tool that enlarges individual freedom and gives the economy a finally boost. It will be an optimistic motto eventually, for a new dynamic course for our country. After all, global adventure has led to conclusions, which already affect the whole planet, beginning with health and finally reaching the economy. It is no accident that our common interest will be supplied as soon as possible with vaccines, countries which have difficulty obtaining them, and of course it is not accidental, and the recent direction of the most powerful economies is to impose a 15% global corporate tax. This is another taboo, which is shattered, by limiting tax competition and international tax evasion, but mainly by returning part of the profits, where they are produced and not by the seat chosen by a company. It is a fair thing with which Greece fully agrees, not only because it favours itself, but because it makes the global environment more rational and more development. I won't expand any further. I close by coding the three elements to which national efforts must now be focused: the vaccine, which will definitively shield public health, the proper implementation of the COVID certificate, which will make the summer more free, and the plan 'Greece 2.0', which will lead to the overall development of the economy and the well-being of society. Reforms in our country have never stopped over the last two years, and the trial is now going on for the beginning of major changes in the next two years, but for a decade. Greece will already disburse around EUR 2021 billion from the Recovery Fund. It comes second in Europe to absorb resources from the current NSRP and is ready to submit its first plan for the next NSRP. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] At the same time, the course of frustration, the Astypalea programme, the overall framework of actions that we have undertaken, the debate, which is taking place directly on the next climate law, shows that our country is at the forefront of green development throughout the whole continent. New investments measure the potential of the economy for many good new jobs, while the thousands of sixty-two more digital transactions of the state with the citizen bring the future closer to its everyday lives. We therefore have every reason to optimize the journey that is being opened before us, as long as we keep the vessel safe with the vaccine chest and let the wind of progress unfold its sails and finally work together to what the compass shows tomorrow. In short, slowly, but constantly always with the necessary attention, we turn the pandemic page and we are now starting to write the page of prosperity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u83	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u84	Obviously, the parliamentary representatives are asking for the floor. Mr. Katsi, Mr. Scandalidis has been asking for the floor for some time now. You'll get the floor right after. Here, Mr. Scandalides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u85	Ladies and gentlemen, this is the most recent time that the Prime Minister rhetoric has asked us to work together, to agree and to proceed together on the road to tomorrow. I would like to say to him that he is knocking on open doors, because if there is a political party in this Chamber that has been permanently repeating this inclination for two years, it is our party. As if there is someone who constantly refuses, it is the government, because in any of the big issues facing the country, at no time in this two-year period it has shown that it has the slightest will to shape conditions of understanding and consensus to deal with the major problems. It's a pity, because it's becoming a rhetorical project. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs Sakhara Sakhara, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council,]] The second is that today the Prime Minister came here to defend his work on a good day, I would say relatively easy and found an opportunity to make a full place around the realities of this government. I think, however, that often what he says goes hand in hand with reality. The provision for the end of the pandemic is made many times, each so much with proclamations and each time it falsifies a denial. I'm sorry about what's happening right now. Where does this adventure come from? The forecast for tourism despite the facilitation that the certificate can give comes in direct confrontation with the lack of substantial preparation to welcome the tourist stream. The problems are crippling. Hotels remain closed. In June and July, there is a precipitation and, of course, there is again a denial for the Prime Minister. For many years, we have heard the strengthening of the ESS and the government's strong opposition to it. We are now getting tired of it, it is so daily, the difficulties, so violent reality, so weak the ESS that has not been strengthened at all in any of these two years, in virtually nothing in staff, in infrastructure or in the innumerable ICMs that are multiplying every time, and in fact they are much less. I wonder, how is it possible with what lives every day each one affected by the virus in the National Health System for the Prime Minister to come today and talk about the enormous support and development of the ESS? It's a third denial and is there, if you want, and a success - overdoing? The Reconstruction Fund came like the swimming pool of Siloam, we were obviously the initiative of the European leadership. We have not at any time seen any initiative or participation and certainly the resources are welcome, but you cannot account for it in the successes of the government. Today, then, we have to understand that the effort to show the government and the Prime Minister is an effort that usually ends up boomerang at the difficult times that the country is going through, because history avenges the excess. It has had a number of arguments today to strengthen a positive initiative that has been taken and with its involvement in the issue of the certificate and a debate on this basis, not to take the opportunity here to suddenly show the intrepid, the great, the national, the consensus that we have not had and all these excesses that we have heard before. Therefore, against this government and this Prime Minister, the attitude of the Change Movement is crystallised. It says boldly 'yes' to the few positives and says with strong voice 'no' to the many negatives. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not in the era of black and white, each act must be coloured according to whom it serves and where it tends and whether it is in the country's interest or not. The 'yes' to the good organisation of this vaccination now we say, 'yes' to the certificate brought by the Minister of Digital Governance is a positive act, regardless of its weaknesses. But 'no' to dismantle, for example, self-government, 'no' tomorrow to convert to a jungle of the workplace will be a narrower one, because these are the ones that show the real face of a government and not the retouching of individual choices. And the real face of this government is deeply conservative. It is a person who is dismantling, reforming despite the ambitious efforts made by government power guards, but isolated from the country's overall right-wing strategy. Minister, digital transformation for the safe movement of citizens, for everything that can facilitate our lives is a great effort I would say and is in a positive direction and indeed a number of steps have been taken lately that everyone can recognise. And here I would like to remind you that digital transformation in the country did not start with the New Democracy Government. At the end of the 1990s, the civil service centres started the program “SYZEYXIS”, which would digitally link all the state apparatus and by 2008 had also been provided with resources given the e-identity. It was a great effort, which unfortunately fell from 2004 to 2009. And then, despite the steps taken by the INTERNATIONAL AND the other positive steps taken in the first years of the memoranda, there have been many more years without being self-evident. And today the Ministry of Digital Governance is actually coming to do positive steps forward, and we welcome these. It is, of course, a development of modern societies and a serious objective for the European Union, and it would be strange for the Greek Prime Minister to stay behind, because the resources for digital transformation are becoming a priority throughout Europe and from the Recovery Fund for the next few years. We must say that all contacts that do not require physical presence and control must be made through the digital state. Issues such as the issue of pensions, the dilemma vote, which refuse some parties in the Greek Parliament, such as the modernisation of business and private initiative, such as the service of citizens, are issues of the country's digital transformation and in the next few months and in the next few years must first be on the agenda. The movement of travellers between countries in the tourist season is one of the major issues that helps the certificate to be dealt with, making use of a right that people have to make their access and their travel easier. However, the lack of preparation for tourist current, as well as the health protocols which are very difficult to implement by private operators in the tourism sector, as well as the timely preparation that has not been done, do not prejudge that with the certificate we have resolved the great problem of tourist development this year. There is, after all, a real problem of democracy and the security of the citizen. It is an international problem for digital transformations. It is how the right to freedom and protection of individual rights is linked to the right to protect his life and security. I must say here that this legislation does not really respond, it leaves it open for the future. I say this because it is clear that the processing of personal data, not only by the State, but also by individuals and other public bodies, is tempting violation practices. Topics such as the time-limit for implementing these measures, issues relating to the strict rules and the consequences which the relevant legislation does not provide for those who are violating this particular process make us have great reservations about the possibility of today's legislation responding to these important questions. Finally, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, I would like to give you a friendly advice. Keep the cubit of poetry and self - control lower. Do not try to put in every positive move that is done, even in part, in a form of major reform. "Reformation" will fall to kick your ass. It's very difficult to change, if you're working on it, and you're finally moving on its surface. So a little more humility.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u86	Thank you very much. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Katsis, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Madam President. To begin with, I would like to say to the President of Parliament that I understand the effort from all sides, but also from the President of Parliament himself, to protect the Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, so that he does not seem - it did not follow the parliamentary order, and that is how it was to be - that he was fugitive. For several weeks now Mr Mitsotakis has been fusing, avoiding as the devil the lynch of the clandestine political confrontation with the Chief of Officership and former Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras. For three weeks we have tabled a timely question about changing the way in which higher education is introduced into higher education in a pandemic year and does not come to answer. Yesterday we asked again a question, ahead of Friday, about the new Republic's borrowing and unscrupulous debts, which you filed with yet 118 million euros during the period Mr. Mitsotakis took over. But you had given it to the electorate. Wasn't it Mr. Mitsotakis who refused to participate in a debate of political leaders or in a debate with then Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras? But, whatever you do, you will not hide from the Greek people, who understands. Today, Mr. Mitsotakis chose to take the floor at the time when the meeting of the Chief of Staff of Alexis Tsipras, with the ADEDY for the bill - looting, which breaks up labour rights and social conquests of years, decades, centuries and ages. And he came to talk while Alexis Tsipras is away. You will not, however, get away from the Greek people, but you will not get away from your responsibilities, from the fact that you are keeping the House closed and the universities closed so that you do not listen to criticism. I've never seen any more fearful, more allergic to the criticism of the government. Ladies and gentlemen, we are at a critical juncture, with the pandemic showing some recession in our country, following its catastrophic management and thousands of dead people, but with very important decisions to be taken on the opening up of tourism. What will happen now and in the coming months will largely judge the state of public health, society and the economy from autumn onwards. The government, as has been used to us, whether it chooses or cannot deal with the questions at issue in substance. It prefers to go with communication flares and when they fail to cover the reality, o of the miracle, a new poll emerges, which restores the "desirable" work of Mitsotakis Government. It is unbelievable how persistent reality sabotages the government's work, but also your basic election narratives. You have made security for the citizens and we see every day murders at noon in every part of the country. But what are you telling us? "You have forensics, while executioners know a sign." You've taken more and well-paid jobs and brought the eight-hour abolition and unpaid overtime. You probably meant the Golden Boys with the great wages you've assigned to the ECJ. You took 4% growth and investment and brought down a recession minus 0.5% before the coronary, according to ELSTAT's revised figures for the first quarter of 2020. You with the great statistics were falsely saying that you had a 0.6% growth. That goes too. Let me not forget the "cocks" of the political deceit in the Prespecies Agreement, which you have dressed with thoughts in a monument of populism, and today you keep it and honor it. The excellence that turned out to be a faculty. The investments of the "buffo" that have been congratulated on SYRIZA. The Papagelopoulos maker at “NOVARTIS”, which we learned yesterday that the main witness, Mr. Angelis, has a criminal prosecution because he refused to receive evidence of a political person of the New Democracy and Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis did not say a word about this allegedly construction. The loans of the New Democracy, which Mr Mitsotakis said "EUR 2.5 will pay our members as much as an espresso" and we are challengingly seeing that you have raised them by 65%, that is by 118 million euros. You challenge the citizens when you get their fortunes with the new bankrupt, as if all the strategic bad payers and the biggest cheaters were you, with unpaid loans of EUR 350 million. You're telling us you're going to put order in the country when you can't put your party in order. These should be answered by Mr Mitsotakis to Alexis Tsipras' timely question on Friday, to come and explain and not run again and to put the propaganda tubers down to write that there is no opposition in the country. Today we are discussing an issue which primarily concerns any planning for the opening up of tourism. So while we would expect to discuss this and have the positions of the Tourism Ministers, the Health and Civil Protection Ministers, we are taking part in a debate on the technical part of the issue of a digital certificate to facilitate the exercise of the right to freedom of movement within the European Union. To allow you to understand, ladies and gentlemen, the digital certificate we are debating today, the European Parliament has been discussing since last year in the TRAN Committee on Transport and Tourism, and here we are dealing with it as a matter of digital governance. One of the two is wrong, either us or the European Parliament. It doesn't explain whether they're both right. It is therefore obvious that you are shaking in view of the possible repetition of your last year's failure and putting under the rug the issue of managing the opening of tourism, setting out demonstration figures on how a document is issued digitally, drawing data from databases. That's a great achievement! You set an example in Europe, which so far Europe did not know what computer and mobile phone will say. You want to represent, once again, the guru of a so-called digital revolution that you brought to the country, as if two years ago you found it in the Cave era. As if you didn't find digital infrastructure, you didn't find digital services, you didn't find conclusive projects compatible, set up ministerial mechanism to serve digital reform across the country and across all ministries. What should I first remember? When was the first time electronic and intangible prescribing started? Didn't it start by EOPY on Minister Andreas Xanthi and Paul Polakis? Should I remember the digital establishment of IKE in one day? Remember the digital platform for mobilisation and recruitment of ancillary personnel in the ERR? Did the digital records or student transfer? What should I first remember? Fortunately, however, Adonis Georgiades came in 2021 to offer congratulations only yesterday to Lefteris Cretso for attracting films and not only producers with the ETUC's development tool, the National Centre for Audiovisual Media! 'Cause your communal armor robbed that one, too. Mr. Kyritakis has recognized the work of SYRIZA and Lefteris Kretsos in his honor. But the government's communication superpower shows that you discovered the wheel. Because for the past twenty-two months, although the new digital applications that you have established and operated are in a positive direction, you have not only made little new major digital projects and you are going with what you found ready, not only delaying the development of infrastructure, but you cannot distribute two donkeys hay when the problem becomes a little more complex, when the parasitic interests of "better" caradokun to grab slaves. I would like to mention a typical example - a mess, the one with double and three-fold case-reporting books, which seems to have come to the point of getting rid of the work of the Grand Maximos, the editor for writing the historical paper that revealed it. Really, will the digital certificate you're actually saying in law will draw on the evidence from the National Coronary Patients' Register, which will have all those who have been or have been found negative means, or will some have been left in the EGE's systems, which we don't know who created them? You can answer that responsibly. We would also like you to reply to us on a subject that I am informed by citizens who have recovered from COVID, although there is a directive by experts to only receive a dose of vaccine when they are on the platform to close this vaccine, it does not enable them to avoid the second dose, so they cannot issue a digital certificate of vaccination. So, did you anticipate this on the platform? What should these citizens who have been sick and had to take only one dose and not two to complete and get the certificate out? Of course, we did not expect anything more substantial than the final state of Mitsotakis and his digital arm. Commonly the mountains from the snow, in that your basic concept proved to be, following the pressure of counterpopulation and civil society, that it was in secret mediation that you offered to companies to take the personal data of Greek citizens, who are intact gold in our time. I would remind the House that in two major cases, PALANTIR and CISCO, ad hoc, in secret agreements by the state at last, there are no posts on 'TRAINING' and an ex post unharmed attempt to secure personal data. The latest events came in which we learned that for one year since the start of gov.gr a little more intelligent computer knowledge could find on Google the responsible statements and other documents published by the citizens due to the incredible clutch with which you set it up. When the Greek Intelligence Association and we and your publications revealed you, they found you, found you, in order to creatively help correct the mistake that you and you did - you did so, so do not deny that there was a problem - then you responded with unreasonable excuses throwing the ball in the platform and implying that the digital transition is being undermined. Shortly before that, the discovery had been published by cyber-security experts that an accidental hacker can enter the safes, in the systems of e-ECA - Mr. Brutsi, know - of the Ministry of Digital Governance itself and find the personal codes to which citizens relate to electronic services. I've asked a question about it and I haven't answered a month yet. It seems, however, that you have indeed been alarmed by the multiple cases that we have raised as a Dedicated Opposition and which have been made public, because we are seeing a shift in an effort and a culture of respect and not a downgrading of the issue of the protection of personal data. I attended the speech by Mrs Westager, Vice-President of the Commission, at the Delphi Forum, where she made special reference to the need for the protection of personal data. I saw Mr. Pierrakas feeling a little uncomfortable in his speech and marginally smacking something about the subject. Welcome to your turn. It is a welcome sign that you are finally starting to embrace European culture on this very sensitive issue. Because if it really proves to be true, it benefits the country and its citizens in the new digital transition, in the new digital era that is expected to proceed with the funds of the Recovery Fund. Speaking of the new digital age and challenges, we consider, firstly, as a Civic Opposition positive the step taken in the recent G7 agreement on imposing a global minimum tax of 15% on all types of digital service, such as those of the large multinational companies of "AMAZON", "Facebook" etc., which will pay tax on the countries that are active and not only where they have their head office. It is important that the Prime Minister earlier in his speech recognised it as a positive step. However, Mr Mitsotakis must understand that he has lost ideologically in this area. Because it may be a small amount of taxation, but it is a historic step because in practice the dogma that you embodies, neoliberalism, for trickle-down economics, that the reduction of taxation in large enterprises brings growth and growth brings economic benefits, which are spread downwards, towards society. So you come in direct confrontation and conflict with your deep ideological core that you copy his recipes yesterday from the neoliberal panoramics of Reagan and Thatcher, and indeed, it's another "assuba". To close, I'll say two words in relation to the certificate. My colleague, Mrs Natasa Gara, said more and more about this. We see that you are legislating fewer items in the document published by the citizens than is provided for in European agreements. You say below that by means of a joint ministerial decision you may also add other elements, and indeed, by changing the problematic provision originally in the amendment you have withdrawn - you have brought this act of law into another legislative act, but you have withdrawn it - so that it can now be said that this information will be non-personal, but without knowing, knowing what they may be and why they should be added. We want an answer to that. Why is this provision explicitly available? Furthermore, we see some differences in legislative acts, such as in the respective texts of European decisions, such as the absence of reference for the duration of the certificate. The reality is that we have a document that is currently about an internal process in our country and has nothing to do with an integrated European approach, with a single platform, where every document issued in a country will be recognised by the systems of the rest. This remains to be seen how it will then work when all countries can issue corresponding certificates. Is this Mr Mitsotakis' proposal to Europe, as you are currently advertising? Clearly not. Firstly, because Mr Mitsotakis' proposal was rejected by Europe, even by the most conservative parties, because it concerned a certificate of vaccination with health status and not a certificate of facilitation of freedom of movement through the identification of persons with a negative test, immunity because of illness or vaccination. One more, the other one. Secondly, because what we are debating today concerns proposals by the European Parliament to the European Commission as early as June 2020 for single protocols and safe movements into the European Union, with the decisive intervention of the Left and other progressive forces on the conditions that this will contain, months before Mr Mitsotakis speaks for the first time about unacceptable health passports. However, I would like to repeat that the substance - I am closing down, Madam President - lies in the overall and uniform management of this case, so that we do not repeat the tragic mistakes of last year's lack of control and tracking, the failed EVA algorithm - you remember the EVA. - that finally became a vehicle not to demand negative tests before entering the country, the absence of common health protocols and single management in Europe and in relations with third countries, so that we do not have another failure after the staff member's returns. As a SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance we provide our support to the European Green Certificate, but no certificate is an apology for a classlylyly dangerous and manipulated incompetent government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u88	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. The Parliamentary spokesman of Mera25 Mr Gregoriadis now has the floor and immediately after that Mr Constantinople from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u89	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is an indication of the level of our parliamentary democracy that ten minutes ago, in half of my presence here, to the right, as I see it, in the seats of the Members of the New Democracy, they would also be sixty MPs and half to one minute after the end of the speech of the Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis SA, disappeared. Fortunately, a dear colleague came in a little while ago, and soon after another one, because there was something very interesting symbolic. You know, my dear colleague, the past five minutes were no one in the headquarters of the New Democracy. It was kind of like the Members of the ruling party left the country as if there were no New Democracy. It happens sometimes, I don't want to be a populist. Sometimes the ministers and the MPs must go for them too, but it was a very symbolic picture, in my view. You know, it's good that Mr. Mitsotakis has his audience, that he is entitled, a Prime Minister of the country is, a young man is, but it's good that one 5% or even 1% is then left to the representative. I say this because that is the level of our parliamentary democracy, we want, we do not want. Dear Mr Pierracakis, I will tell you that I personally regard you as the most successful minister of this government, I would say, without wanting to be negative, you may be the only successful Minister of this government. You're successful for a number of things that work and I've felt them as a citizen working. You know, populism is too far away, it's too far from Mera25. We're not such politicians, we're left. We don't hate you because you're right, we love you and let you be right and we appreciate what you're good at in society. As a citizen, I, Clon Gregoriadis, have seen a facilitation in my life from various digital platforms that you invented, managed to put into service in unfavourable circumstances and are functional. And I tell you one sincere and with all my generous heart "Good for you!" But today's draft law, Mr Pierracakis, as we say every time - you know - we are voting on people who take on independent authorities on behalf of the government, unfortunately, will vote against it and we are vertically opposed. DiEM25 and we personally - I mean Mer25 - have taken a clear stand against the vaccination passport for reasons I will report to you right now. But I would like to tell you, with the same love I have spoken to you and before that the cause is not you again, it is the policies that, as Minister of the specific Government of Mitsotakis, you will find yourself in a position to be forced to implement. I firmly believe that a man like you, a man of your own level, would easily understand, obviously understood the difference - what difference? - to establish a series of digital applications, to assist in the demonstration of negative tests, such as in the case of COVID -19, as an inappropriate term for freedom of movement, but not, of course, for vaccination passports. What's the difference? We have said this, one is that some are transient, extremely transient, in ten days they are no longer powered, while others are staying. And secondly, the most important thing is that if what you want to establish today is established, the Pandora's box, Mr Minister, will be unequivocally opened up for massive violations of privacy by insurance companies, employers and state services in various countries of the world. To conclude, we as Diem25 and as MERA25 consider vaccines to be safe of the highest value, but we are opposed to any 'embolistic passport' - in many introductorys - and not digital applications aimed at the on-line certification of negative tests, in which people's personal data cannot therefore be used. At the same time, Minister, you know, everything is being transported in politics. You can do your job wonderfully. However, if the Minister for Health has to meet the requirements of the public limited liability company - which is this government, in our opinion - not to lose sight of the privatization of our ESS and, therefore, has not done the appropriate means, i.e. to strengthen public health, to create public networks of mass testing and vaccination centres - which would then be - centres that would then be included in the primary health care designed on our islands, which now how to go to tourists, when they know that if they find the fatality, they are caught, they will stay there because there is no doctor, why is there not even a health centre in many of them? I shall refer to them later. At the same time, all the available tools are being used to deal with the fiasco. Look, I'm not talking about no fiasco here in Greece. The vaccinated fiasco exists, it's pathological and it's a European huge fiasco. In Greece - I would say - given the circumstances and with such a huge troika fiasco that we are dictated by politics in all the vital sectors of the country again, we have done well. Now listen to what the fiasco is in total and you will understand: in particular, the central banks, as you know, print mountains of money that they give to banks, on the occasion of COVID -19, which will harm the banks and large companies, which use how these companies and banks do? Do you know how they use them? You know. They use them worldwide, everywhere, but in Europe everyone, to buy their shares and increase their nominal value, of course the revenues of their directors, because that is how these things work. Imagine, Mr Pierracakis, since the beginning of the pandemic, our Central European Bank has been hit by 1,700 - to hear it and the people who are listening to us - billions of euros for this purpose. The answer is therefore clear: the European Council must immediately order the European Central Bank to pay what it needs immediately to buy as many doses as Europeans need plus an equal quantity to be sent to all developing countries of the world, of course. Mr. Pierracakis, do you know what the cost is for all of the land to be vaccinated in Africa, in Southeast Asia, in South America, for all of us? It is a cost of EUR 36 billion, it is a funny cost, when 1,600 such nice hot billion has been given to banks that are bolts without the bottom, surgeries, no matter how much the European Central Bank throws them, they lose it, because of course, they have fallen into a subtle domino by the miserable and disastrous, inhuman policies of subtle humanity, which this European Union has been implementing for twelve years. Your government, and not you personally, but I told you, as we say to those who are going for the independent authorities, is fatal, you will be in trouble, you have been in trouble since you chose to accept the honour that you became Minister. You'll be in trouble to practice policies that are inhuman. With this draft law, the government legislates how to register, of course, by selecting the person establishing certificates for personal medical data, while even a year and a half after the outbreak of the pandemic has done nothing to create public structures, i.e. a public network of mass tests, in which the tests would be carried out free of charge, and then those structures would remain in our remote areas and in the remote regions. Mr Pierrakakis, I will tell you one more thing: I am speaking with real appreciation, I think you have understood it since the beginning of my speech. I have not had a chance to go to college, and I feel very disadvantaged about that, not contributoryly, I feel disadvantaged because I know what I missed that I didn't study. My love for hypocritical art and the fact that I was very early - eighteen years old - next to Charles Kun himself, it was such an enchanting treaty that distracted me enough and my postmenstrual age from a very important point - the purpose of people's lives, to illuminate their minds, to open up their horizons. I have not succeeded, Mr Pierrakakis, and I am so sad that if I can do so when it makes me the honour of the Greek people to release me from this duty, I will. I would like to ask you and answer me manually to the heart, because you have the opportunity as Minister today that you are bringing the bill to accept our amendment on ranches, essays, so that the 1% premium can be restored, that is, in other words, that everyone who hears us, 1% who goes to colleges, IEIs, comes from essays regardless of rating, without affecting the other imported people, because that is not 1 per cent, is 1 per cent, it is also 1 per 10,000. So the question I want to ask you and answer me manually to the heart and not politically or micro-groups: Mr Pierrakakis, I saw your CV and it is perhaps the most enviable in the Greek Parliament. It's a CV that everyone would envy. Honestly, do you think you could have had this CV today, study, do your postgraduate, doctorate, if you had to work at the same time from eight to twelve hours a day and raise two minor children? This is happening to the students of the summer high school, and with the shameful, disgraceful argument - apologies for the heavy expression - of Mrs. Kerame's on equality, that is to say that she restores equality because she was supposedly wronged by the other children, our own children, who have a tutorial paid by parents, never work and just read or lazy because the closed has been broken. So I am telling you - and I think I have discounted your answer - you would not have the same degrees if you had the same qualifications. It's a human impossible. And if you could, because I'm not God to know if you could, maybe you could, it would be the absolute exception to a certain, permanent rule. Do me a favor, I know that it is inconceivable that you will not take an amendment, which "clicks" your colleague, today. It's a matter of life and death for these children who aren't so children, they're some big children between them and they're not much. Tell the Ministerial Council, tell Mr Mitsotakis that this is a crime that there is no reason to continue. You can make it up to all the Greeks. I just wanted to say about the Prime Minister two things, because he said it well, but the Prime Minister is what he says. And "after we've done it," he said, "so well." Did you do so well? And where are the tourists? And where's the music in the bars? You know, the indication that bars don't have music is a very clearly hidden admission from your Government that no tourists have come. I'm laughing at bitterness. I'm terribly sorry that no tourists have come. The poor people will pay her, the rich won't pay her. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I won't be long, Madam President. Tourists haven't been here. Because if the tourists had come to Mykonos and Santorini you can be certain that music in bars and catering areas would be allowed throughout the country. Unless "NAMMOS" plays music and "deals" various state workers. I want to wish that's not the case. 'We were the first to say,' the Prime Minister was bold enough to say just now 'in the self-test'. Yeah, and I answer the last ones to normal, and that's why we ate the second wave, which killed 12 thousand of us. We have been screaming since March - Mr Varoufakis - 'test, test and test'! When I remind you, I am appalled in passing by the Hellenic Society of Sailing - the state - was saying by mail to Mr. Kikilia systematically "use us. We can do a thousand a day. Why don't you use us?" When three universities, Patras, Athens and Thessaloniki, were told by Mr. Kikilia and Mr. Prime Minister "to give you our know-how for a test. Why don't you do a test?" When? When it opened and tourism became what happened, you know it. I won't be long. A year and a half, and twelve thousand dead, after how many doctors are you permanently hired? I'm sorry, but no one, no one, no one, not half! We are in favour of vaccination. I'm a son, Mr. Pierracakis, three scientists. I have a mother, a father and a sister doctor and a great doctor. I am obvious, perhaps more than anyone in the Chamber without wanting to be king of the king in favor of vaccines. I've always been. I now endorse with all my heart the Prime Minister's saying a moment ago that the most important discovery of science in the twentieth century is other than vaccines. I'm fantastic in favor of them. However, why are the Greeks not being vaccinated, Minister? Is it a people "split"? Is it a people the worst of Europe? It is a huge proportion, it seems that it will touch 40% possibly, and I say it with horror. Why? Is it the citizen, the malicious, the distorted, the fool? Is it not the government's fault? Is it not your fault - not personally - that you lost the citizen's confidence? Why? Because every opportunity of the pandemic, every horror of the pandemic, you turn it into an opportunity to limit our rights, limit us freedoms, or lucrative canals, to resent clinical leaders. All this, a year and a half you say, didn't it play any role in the citizen's suspicion that I'm "will they also be working here? Will the pit have a pit?"? You have been responsible for how you handled the pandemic so long depriving us of freedoms that the pit for the citizen has been pitted. If the citizen, Minister, is misled to such an unprecedented extent for Europe, he will say that his government has some responsibility. I will now close with this, Madam President, and I will not speak again - I saw the latter and it has really left me out of the air since last night. Objective values, ladies and gentlemen Members: Kifisia, Philothei, Kakali, Voula, New Psychic, Penteli reductions up to 35%. I heard these from the state press release so you wouldn't question the numbers. On the other hand, Kamaero, Saint Varvara, Illion, Agios Dimitrios, Daphne increases up to 75%. Mykonos, Santorini, Rhodes, Athens Center increase from 95% to 200%, reasonable, and - oh of the miracle! - Ithaca 250%. I ask you: why? Do you hate Theatics? "Janus" beat them, it's a fatal island, it has nothing to do with the other 200% went. Ithaca, how did you find her? Why don't you put the Leipzigs at 200%? It's insane! So I'm saying, what is it exactly? Is this a temporary schizophrenic or raw class hate crisis? In the second case how you manage to hate even attack to finish poor people who your own memorial policies have poored them and have been dead because of you for years on the canvass. If I'm not mistaken, the fallen man is entitled to be jealous and hate the one who's standing and thrown him down and not the other way around. Mercy! Is it absolutely impossible for you - as a government I mean rather than as human beings - to show some humanity and an elementary momentum towards justice? You know, I'm asking you why we're all supposed to be born good. All of us remain such throughout childhood and compassionate and slowly after adolescence as we urg in the south of other people, as the Nobelist poet says, we are in the end most of us alienated, individualistic, selfish and handy. This is people's usual course. Of course, now you're going to tell me you're adults and so, on the basis of what I've just said, you're entitled to be broken. Okay, I agree. But honestly I wonder, within you, does it not even mention a little memory of your physical kindness and honesty of your childhood? Have you lost your ability to feel and act accordingly? Do you know what you're in danger of getting on this road for the rest of your life? Do you know what happens to all those who consider life a completely individual process in which one can be enclosed in one's egos and step on one's own bodies, so that he can completely conquer his own business success and so shield himself against turning down fate and the universal existential fears of all of us: death, birth, where we are, where we will go, what will happen next? Do you know what will happen to them, Minister? They get what Lucian Kilaidon says in Microsonics and in the wonderful song "I, my girl, I'm fine, so weeping the other, the poor man." Do you know what the lyric says? "He's got a car, he's got a house, he's got it all, and yet he's hurt. He knows tricks, takes positions, shares and deposits, and suddenly he suffers syncope." This danger, therefore, of an unexpected syncope, which threatens permanently all those who insist on showing class sadism in society rampant from years into the canvass of society completely innocent victims, could very well borrow the title of another emblematic record of Greek music history, the huge Orange and call it this 'risk of revenge of the gypsy', which, as you know, may be hungry, have no shares, deposits, permanent work, home or no prospects, but synchronous, Minister, will never happen, simply because he knows very well that our life is not always a comedy and whatever the secret is missing, is simply sharing it with other people and entertaining it. Thank you very much for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u90	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Mr. Constantinople has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in a positive draft for which Mrs Giannakopoulos and Mr Scandalidis have told us, I would like to make two - three points, which I think they can help, but also to be able to see on the basis of the Prime Minister's speech, if all that has been said in the past days is in the right dimension, if there is a willingness to recognise both the past and the present, but above all in order to be able to move forward in the future. I have heard my colleague, the Parliamentary Representative of Mera25 actually speak with positive words about the Minister and about what he has done mainly. Would anyone say that someone else can say that what has been done lately under these difficult circumstances is not positive? No, of course not. We forget, of course, but we cannot remember it. It seems that there is no follow-up, which the media prefers. Besides, what's the media in the morning? He is a morning journalist, a journalist supporting New Democracy and a journalist from "AGEY". They now represent the country and pluralism. But now let's see this: Is it in every step? Are they? How did it start? Does anyone forget - and Kostas Scandalidis said - the JEPs, the prescribing that began in 2010, the open.gov and everything else that happened, the green development called 'green horses' and now everyone wants to become the green growth, which was at the most difficult juncture of the memorials? I say all this because, in the end, the big issue is that we are all trying to forget and put history in a order that suits us. Eventually, however, this does not help the country itself either. We at PASOK were not interested at any stage - at least from what I have been living in the last ten difficult years - in believing that if the government is destroyed, it would be good for us to gain power. We have proven the exact opposite. This is a sign of political culture, which has rarely existed in Greece in recent years, that is, what we all say the political cost of not putting it above the good of the country. Secondly, the digital certificate - I am overcoming who said it first, who is second - has left, centre-left, right-hand or has something to do with the interests of the countries of the European Union? In my view, the reading that is being read here is - so I think it is important that we are all together, united for this certificate - that if today we were to give another chance to states - as we did last time - in Northern Europe, their certificate weakens their arguments to allow their people to come to Greece - and to South Europe in general - to make their holidays. Therefore, this certificate has national characteristics and helps, essentially, to open the border and especially to people who have been vaccinated or passed the disease and allow them to come here. Think of how many countries they want to keep the population in their own countries, to have internal tourism and not to lose money. Thirdly, tourism: Look, there is a big issue here, which - as the Minister is not here - we need to see. Let me give you an example: 'Blue freedom' - I too agree with you - but here we are once again making the same mistake as the government in many things. That is, we have been vaccinated - quite rightly, I say - the Prime Minister's Antipalea, but Antipalea will accept tourists in about one month. In the islands that could be accepted directly, we did not see this. We believe that these islands have entered to help communications. It's not always a communal matter. And, of course, if you loved these islands, you wouldn't allow Thirasia or another island with your previous law to elect only one. You wouldn't mind being three on the board. It just has a contradictory logic. Tourism, ladies and gentlemen, is at the most difficult stage, in my view, where with these problems top destinations can be at a 20% to 30%, while it was zero in June, but the other destinations of Greece will have very great problems. Therefore, if support for focus, tourism, rent, etc. is withdrawn, there will soon be problems that will work against businessmen. I would like to ask all those who say 'no' to the digital certificate: They wonder where farmers will sell their products and what disaster occurred last year who were unable to sell them at hotels and at hotels? And, of course, there is one issue, which has to do with countries such as China and Russia and Britain, which, for political reasons, do not allow their citizens to come to Greece for tourism. I shall conclude, Madam President, on the issue of vaccination. First of all, I hear journalists - and they do not know what they want to say - 'the privileges of vaccinated people'. What are the privileges of the vaccinated? I fully respect the choice of someone to be vaccinated and someone not to be vaccinated. In other words, it is a voluntary process and quite rightly. From there on, the inoculated one has rights? So, he's in the same condition as someone who doesn't get vaccinated? I respect personal data, but I ask: is it the same? So, respect for the choice of not being vaccinated gives him the same rights as someone who's being vaccinated? Does he have exactly the same rights? I mean, me and another colleague here, where one has been vaccinated and the other does not have to go on wearing the mask or the other because he has not been vaccinated - and it is a large proportion of them - will he cause the problem and should he wear the mask? In other words, if 40% remains invasive, at some point and the vaccinated should wear the mask. So we are basically talking about the privilege of the invaders, not the vaccinated. Madam President, I believe there will be a great deal of discussion in this process, because there are people who use it and who believe that it will be a large pool of voters. Other parties have done this at times. See a little anti-Europe and much more from 2009 to today. But we, which are the majority here, the parties, at least, who can understand that in the next period of vaccination is the greatest achievement of science, if we support it with all our powers, we can take our lives back and give impetus and development to the country. That is why I believe that the next time is not going to be a political debate, but a national debate to everyone, not as a privilege, but as the right of all of us who believe that science can change our data. Today, to be a waiter, he must have special certificates. It can't be any waiter. The man must have some certificates so that he can be made. In addition, we have lost the workforce. If you ask today - I am doing a parentheses - we need 30% of staff from 2019 for tourism and foodism. So in the next period, the House must support the effort to see the rights so that we can get our lives back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u92	Thank you very much, Mr President. We are now going to the second circle of speakers with a natural presence. Mr Couvelas has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u93	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, today's debate is a very good opportunity to remember some of the truths of the last period. Today's bill, the ratification of the legislative act, follows on from the emblematic initiative of Greek Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis on the creation of the single European digital certificate that will facilitate the movement of natural persons within the European Union and other states, and will make our lives safer this summer, offering more freedom of movement in relation to the known restrictions due to pandemic. At this point in time, the same debate is taking place in the plenary session of the European Parliament. Greece has opened the way, and we have shown them how this important step can be taken, in a Europe which is true that it is moving slowly, like a large ship slowing down, often within the vortex of bureaucracy in Brussels. Fortunately, the Greek ship has a worthy captain and is already moving in the right direction and at an appropriate speed. Sixteen months have already been completed since our country was in the middle of an unprecedented sanitary cyclone with unpleasant results, as was the case throughout the planet. In fact, how many here in this Chamber did we think a few months ago that Greece will become a model, a model country, a country of good practice for the rest of Europe? We took credit for the retention of dissemination during the first wave. We have taken credit for supporting the economy, workers and the most vulnerable from the second wave to today. We are taking credit for Operation FREEDOM, the organization of the vaccinations that has surprised everyone, even those who do not want to be vaccinated - I call on them too, in my turn, to do so, is good, in any case - and, of course, the initiative on the digital certificate, which is now also expected to be adopted by the European Parliament. All these initiatives and actions have been implemented - let us not forget that - by the responsible majority of Greek citizens who embraced them. Unfortunately, this national effort has not missed the misgivings, which are mainly from the point of view of the Officerial Opposition, where without beginning, middle and end, there has been a criticism, a sample, the result of ideological obsessions, micro-party perceptions, which has characterised you, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, and unfortunately, you will not be able to change the opinion of the citizens if you do not try enough. And all this at the expense of the common interest. I'll remind you of some truths very quickly. At first Mr. Tsipras had doubts that the country has a plan to get out of the unprecedented health crisis. The data has been falsified. Greece has had the best results so far in the relevant pandemic indicators, and that is not what we say. The government doesn't say so. They don't call it Collapsing MPs. All international organizations say so. You have questioned the government health plan. We found five hundred fifty-seven IDs. Today we have reached the thousands of four hundred. This is a profit for all of us and for the National Health System. You didn't have time to hire. We did it in the middle of a pandemic. Approximately ten thousand recruits were made to health workers, including four and a half thousand today for permanent staff and added. It's gonna be a dowry from doctors permanent in the health system. You guys had a routine waiting for a IF bed. Amidst pandemic, this phenomenon was eliminated. You said we were making plans in the sand, because the vaccines are going to be too late. Now, of course, the vaccination programme is developing smoothly. So, what do you say? You're saying people get sick. But this can't stand and be disgusted every day. We all have personal experience now. There are over six million vaccinations that have taken place. Two and a half million of our fellow citizens have done both doses, about 20%. We are moving quickly, within the plan, towards the immunity of the Greek society. As far as suffering is concerned, I am not making any comment. The procedure is exemplary, and that is what every Greek citizen has tried it. The famous statement that with the 'AstraZeneca' and the opening of the 30-five-to- thirty-nine age platform 'we will clear up these vaccines', I think it is a direct insult to young people, something that Mr Tsipras has regretted - I am sure - Mr Tsipras. However, young people themselves are overcoming such statements, such approaches, rushing to book an appointment for vaccination with this vaccine, and thus the immunity wall is increasingly built at all ages. Now, with regard to the criticism, the wooden language for the Greek economy that it has been left to its fate, that no one cares about businesses, professionals, but the sum of EUR 40 billion, which have fallen to support the Greek economy and the last professional, comes the advance from the Recovery Fund to supplement with concrete, targeted support measures. I don't want to remind you of the self-test contest. I conclude by saying: Mr. Tsipras was ironic to Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, who proposed this year on 12 January, the relevant digital certificate. Specifically, in March, Mr Tsipras in an interview with 'OPEN' said about the vaccination certificate: 'To tell you it's a nonsense when you have 7% vaccinated right now throughout Europe.' Didn't he realize we were talking about perspective? We were talking about this summer and "if you don't cook before you're hungry", you'll probably find yourself before unpleasant surprises! You'll stay a pig and run. With a word, you'll stay out of the game. On the contrary, the results show that Greece is taking the lead. The Greek government aims, it has a plan. We are very close to opening up even more - freely, always in relation to global data - the country, so that we can accept tourists, stimulate the national economy and, of course, be more comfortable in the European Union, since very soon the digital certificate will be a European policy, as the President of the European Council Michel announced at the event held in Athens and congratulated the Greek Prime Minister. I close by saying that Greece does indeed, the need for digital transformation makes it an opportunity. You have done this, Minister. Congratulations to you, to your Undersecretaries, to your partners, to all the Greeks, who recognize this effort and participate, supporting this effort that the place so much needs. Fortunately, it seems that we are going to end up today, in voting for this initiative together, showing that there are still times when we can look at the future together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Minister for Digital Governance now has the floor, Mr Pierracakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking today about the European CIVID Certificate, an initiative with a strong Greek colour, as it was - as has been said before - a proposal from the Greek Prime Minister to the European institutions. I think that is very much validated and President Michelle's presence in Athens about ten days ago when we started technical implementation. One of the first countries to do this, from the first seven, was us. Today - the Prime Minister mentioned it - another two were added, Spain and Lithuania. This month is the transitional month, European. At the same time as we are discussing, at the same time at European level, exactly the same thing is being discussed, namely the implementation of the European Certificate from 1 July for all the Member States of the European Union. Of course - we have said this before - the added value of implementing this proposal in practice for too many reasons is very great. If we had not done so, the twenty-seven Member States of the European Union would have to speak to each other bilaterally to develop such systems, which one could have ratified with one another's system, a total of three hundred and fifty-one bilateral agreements: 27 to 26 by 2. That would create obvious issues. It has allowed the European framework to be started by those who wished to do so earlier - on 1 June in our case - and a step as the current addition of two more Member States - each Member State - can make use of this month, and thus by means of a central mechanism, both issue and certification of these documents, with common formats, with common mechanisms for assessing the data, is speeding up, facilitated, a process which, as we have said before, has the nature of simplification and facilitation and obviously no other. It came as a legislative act, so that legislation could prevent the code. The system was ready on the day it was presented to President Michelle, in fact, because it was not in Greek, we had to be in the first countries to start implementing this proposal on 1 June. This process is dynamic, that is, changing day by day. A few weeks ago we called it a green certificate. The name of the pan-European has already been changed. So we are going to have to put in place measures, both technically, I suppose, and politically. After all, there will be specific qualifications, which will come at European level, which we expect in the next few days. However, it is certainly very important that we have, on the one hand, managed to propose the proposal and, on the other hand, to be the first to apply it. That would not be self-evident some years ago, in relation to the expectation that would exist at European level by us. It wouldn't be self-evident now. That's why a lot of engineers worked for it. They deserve the congratulations, and I would like to offer them from this Step, as I have personally given them to each of them, the engineers of the EDN, the National Network of Technology and Research Infrastructures - where the presentation to President Michel and the Prime Minister - the engineers of the HICP, the engineers of the General Secretariat of Information Systems, the lawyers who have worked extensively in order to be here today, because there are indeed too many legal concerns that need to be taken into account. Of course, this is where we managed to be one of the first to publish it, because we already had a fully digital vaccination system. We had a system from alpha to omega digital, which was also built very quickly, with two digital channels: on the one hand the emvolio.gov.gr platform and on the other hand intact prescribing, the possibility of the state going to the citizen and of proposing dating and, of course, of course, channels for those who do not have digital skills. The pharmacies, as we all know, have been exploited by the civil service centres. They participated in a total of four channels so that one can close one's appointments for the vaccine. In this system, three principles were followed in the vaccination system: it was the first principle that I mentioned before, the state goes to the citizen, not the citizen in the state. This is a comprehensive change of philosophy about how to design the services of the state as a whole. So this is the second principle. There's a terminology that the Anglo-Saxons describe as service design, service design, planning, that is, all your services, with the citizen at the centre, not the state mechanism, and you can make them as simple as possible. This principle was followed in the vaccines. This principle must be followed everywhere. Of course, the last thing is that the state has exploited - the third principle - the infrastructure we have already had best. Good time, the system we are discussing today. This was developed by the engineers of the HEDN, engineers who have been working there for years and whom we have exploited, to whom we invest every day, and to whom we are working together and as I have said before, this is their job we are discussing today. I think that these two systems ultimately, the vaccination system on one hand and the COVID certificate on the other, 19 European, produce two messages, one on the inside and one on the outside, one on the inside of our country, one on the outside. On the one hand, the vaccination system produces the message that it is not only about the vaccine. The message that gives citizens is that what you see in the vaccine in the end you will see it for everything. Step by step. In some things, we're going to be more late where there are no systems. Obviously, the whole system debate is about a historic course in the country, obviously it concerns all the governments that existed before us, and our own and other parties, because the systems are infrastructure. You don't fight bridges, you don't fight the system, you don't fight the streets, you build on whatever's good, and you do it courageously. We have therefore chosen to use whatever structure there was, and we have decided that there was good products, from their own structures we have created services. There was the prescribing. There was no intact prescribing. An extension was made and see the huge multiplier value it had for all of us, not only in national vaccination, but also during the lockdown phase, that it is possible for the citizen who has already established a relationship with his doctor to receive a prescription on his phone especially this year, especially last year. Building products from structures is a lesson that we ourselves learned. So, using also the resources of the Recovery Fund that will come, a "Marshall Plan" for our time, with a huge emphasis on digital transformation, we will cover all gaps. Where there is no system, there will be a system. There is a prescription, but, for example, there is no complete medical file for the patient. We've already announced that we'll use the prescription system as a pretext of the file. Already in national vaccination, for example, prescribing has been used in vulnerable groups to prioritise them, so it already includes a uterus of information for each of us to build the medical file. But there are still things missing. There's a lot missing. They're missing hospital systems running through each other. The systems of radiodiagnostic centres are missing to operate together. This is an example. Here comes the Recovery Fund, all the available financial resources in the coming years come to help us implement this whole strategy and cover all the gaps and therefore step by step - to implement what I said before. National vaccination is not only about vaccines. It's about everything. It is a message to everyone as to what we can really do. The digital certificate gives a message to the outside that Greece has put not only on the table but also on the natural side, that we have every opportunity to lead, not just to imitate the good examples, as we did at first, what Estonia did well, what England did well, what the Netherlands did well, but by using the Greek engineers, using the huge resources that we already have within the country, invest there and can add with ideas, we can add in good application. We did it in the vaccination system, we did it in this certificate, we did it in our fifth generation design. In other things we cover loose ends, in other things we're back. In other words, however, we manage to go to the limit of what others do and talk increasingly about our own example. Again conquering the country, its engineers, its legal systems, its real infrastructure. So this is if you want a wider job, this is if you want a wider message: All the digital strategy of gov.gr, the thousand hundred and sixty-five agencies currently on the platform - and we added another one today, the disinfection extract - ultimately gives a message: We are putting the country on motion and the country is playing for its citizens and especially for those who need it most. It may be ambitious to believe that this can be done within four years or within the next four years, but if we manage to invest together and target well, it is not ambitious, it will be legality. Let me say that I believe that it is absolutely attainable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u96	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Papadopoulos has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u97	Very slowly, in my opinion, the United Europe found that protection from the second and third waves of pandemic required a holistic intervention in the health system, particularly in primary health care, early and complete traceability, measures to avoid convulsion in over-transmission, to accelerate vaccination and to understand that the patent must be used as a public good, to ensure travel and to ensure the safety of tourist visits. I wish they were aware from last year in a united Europe that certification had to be done with the single health protocol. We have proposed, you have not heard and not all of Europe has listened to it, because it is ruthless - to say things by their name - there has also been a lot of other Europeans in the Greek Government. This was, of course, paid to the economy with a quarantine of too many months, which, when it was certified for safe movement, either with a negative PCR test - which would be seventy-two hours before the movement - or with positive antibodies for hospitals, I think we would have much better results. However, generalized free tracking had to be adopted, because everything that protects public health must be done free of charge. And since united Europe did not take responsibility, our government had the challenge of doing so and did not do so. You have the opportunity even now, because, in addition to speeding up the vaccination course, we must check with timely tracing with molecular primary tests rather than self-test tests, and do not put expenditure there, so that we can have this safety for our tourism as well. I think that the issues, which are ahead of the priorities that need to be taken, are that when we say that Greece must be a safe and tempting tourist destination what you do not do, it is to see what health structures exist in all tourist destinations. The Prime Minister went to Antipalea. Do you know how the needs of Antipalea, Amorgos, Oinoussa, Megalesi, Leipzig and many other small islands that proceeded with the vaccination programme are addressed? Health structures? Health structures throughout the country which has diffuse tourist destinations and health centres close to them. What exactly happened? And the Prime Minister came to tell us today that he is now announcing four thousand nine hundred, mostly nursing staff. For what? The fifth wave, Minister? Ask the Prime Minister, too. Why are these four thousand nine hundred recruitments being prepared, when the needs of the health system have been identified immediately after the first wave, which we satisfactorily managed? But don't you know the huge gaps that exist in the health system? You knew it. We proposed five thousand five hundred recruits in the programme, which we have announced, to fill gaps that were available and two thousand five hundred per year. We lost in 2019, 2020 became only the ones that we declared and in 2021 have not yet been done. There have been some ninety-five notices, which you are making for doctors from the National Health System and a thousand nine hundred five places for local health units in a system, which you denounced as Soviet, but you have had to realize that local health units, mobile health units, primary health care structures are those that could mainly be handled in time and properly, even with residents' visits, who have problems. You didn't do it. Conversely, in the portion of the first theme, the Prime Minister's speech says what? Does New Democracy's well-known scenario for a public-private partnership to do what? And you yourself were forced to recruit private doctors when we had not made all those notices, which would have been given to us by doctors, when we need them to strengthen intensive care units, so that it would not be possible with movements or emergency departments, even by health centers. But you did not make this planning, and so you restore a scenario that entices insurance companies, also entices speculative interests that have been exploited during the pandemic. So you're giving them a hand of cooperation? We have samples of writing public and private cooperation when various institutions understand the need for the National Health System and invest in strengthening the National Health System. Nor have you now understood the need for an integrated, quality national health system that gives and identity to the country that is a model for its public health structures? Don't we need such standards? I will end up with something that concerns you, Minister. You also spoke a little about the use that is being made of the individual patient file. So it took so long to realize that the computer records of patients suffering from special illnesses, suffering from neoplasms, should there already be the evidence that could be provided by structures of the National Health System for the preparation of the individual dossier and the cooperation between hospitals, and we are still in the announcement? That is why it also seems to me to be embodied in all these issues which we have in front of us in the difference between the two strategies. I'm hanging up with this. The strategy for the quality and integrated national health system should be financed with 7% progressively of the state budget and the recovery fund better exploited. Because we are also talking about it in the Committee on European Affairs that you are only giving EUR 1.535 000, when it is a priority to strengthen the national health system and from European funds. So here is that progressive programme which will also lead to progressive governments replacing a neoliberal one like that of the New Democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u98	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, the Standing Committee on Public Administration, Public Order and Justice presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of the Interior: 'Institutional framework of teleworking, provisions on public sector human resources and other arrangements of the Ministry of Interior'. The Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution, Mr Villardos, has the floor now and immediately after Mr Brutsis, Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u99	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we will not concentrate any more on today's legislative proposal, since on the one hand, our rapporteur has analysed it in detail, on the other hand, the fundamental points, the extremely substantiated objection of unconstitutionality we have put forward. As we have pointed out many times, we are not against vaccines in general, since it is certainly beneficial to people and societies. But we are against their obligation. I repeat, we are against their obligation, especially when it comes to experimental, which have not been adequately tested by the medical community and by almost all the specialists. So let the government's geblinist accusations be missing against us. They don't convince anyone. Continuing, on the occasion of the legislative act, we shall refer to the question of freedom of speech and manipulation of public opinion by governments, starting with the example of the United States, where one of the largest podcasters, with 10.6 million subscribers to YouTube, expressed the following opinion on the vaccination of young adults: 'If you are twenty-one years old' - he said - 'and you ask me if you should be vaccinated, I would say no. If you are a healthy person and exercise continuously, you are young and eat well, I do not think you should worry about your non-vaccination." But even though he actually expressed a reasonable opinion, a view, freely saying his opinion, his comment created problems in the United States, because the government's aim is to vacate the entire population. For these few proposals, therefore, he was strongly accused by the White House and Doctor Fauci, the well-known head of the committee of experts for infections, who advise the government, who described him as a selfish person who endangers the vulnerable members of society. However, given the way in which vaccines and vaccinations were started, it is certainly justified that the American scepticism, like anyone else, has been produced extremely quickly, so that the two and three phases are carried out at the same time, without being completed, on the other hand, they are experimentally licensed by 2023. In simple terms, vaccines are approved in the United States as emergency measures by the FDA, despite almost 200 million Americans have already been vaccinated. Especially as regards the vaccine ‘AstraZeneca’, the high pressure exerted in the company to produce the vaccine as soon as possible caused a dose problem at the start of its distribution, and in many European countries it was banned later due to the dangers of thrombosis in young people. Only in Russia - just in Russia - a pre-vaccination antibody test is recommended in general to ensure that the patient is not immune, on the one hand, to avoid dosing, on the other hand, to avoid overloading the body with antibodies. Why, really, is it not recommended in Europe or in the United States or Greece? Do pharmaceuticals object? Don't these prevent the use of drugs, since their income from vaccines is multiple? Furthermore, the real question and our point is not whether the American was right to say so or not, but that the criticism of a citizen who freely expressed his opinion has, to such an extent, disturbed the government. In this respect, if any State criticises the views of one of its citizens, it will obviously not allow freedom of speech, noting that freedom of speech and of the press is protected by the American constitution and not only, which states: "The Congress will not pass any law restricting freedom of speech or of the press." In view of the above, it is certainly unconstitutional that the authorities publicly criticise the speeches of their citizens, that is to say, attack basic freedoms and control the media or the internet, claiming to disseminate false news, promote conspiracy theories or stimulate extremism. Continuing, this situation existed a long time ago and is certainly not just about the United States or the policy of vaccines, especially as regards Greece, the control of the media by the government, which has been achieved through indirect money with the justification of pandemic - I recall that it has spent some 80 million in a year allegedly informing the citizens - is appalling. In particular, according to European sources, the government's control of the Greek media is over 80%. So it's no exaggeration to compare our country, its government, with the North Korean government. For the censorship of the contents that are considered unfavourable to the political power in question, there is often no need for explicit prohibitions, since the media predicts exactly what the holders of power want and are censored by themselves, in order to avoid formal retaliation or even to avoid losing public ads. The specific process of media self-determination is part of the propaganda system, which has been called - we all know - 'consensual construction', according to which the media are strong and effective ideological institutions that fulfil the function of propaganda by supporting the system. In this regard, there is no apparent coercion, but they are acting in this way, because otherwise they are cut off from their revenue sources, such as state and other advertising, while with regard to those journalists, who do not self-determination, publicly questioning official consensus, they lose their access to the most profitable and worthwhile positions of the sovereign media. Apart from that, their reputation is really at risk, like all of us who are telling the truth with honesty, because they are systematically the victims of ruthless practices, for example, being accused of being the theoretical conspiracy or instigators of terrorism. Although they are often completely unfounded, they can destroy their careers in the toxic political environment that exists in many countries, as in Greece, of course. Further, authorities often use much more than intimidation to control public opinion, such as in the example of social networks and the Internet in the United States and not only - in Europe, of course - where they employ reliable state officials who filter or disappear publications following requests from various state institutions. In the example of the political parties in the opposition, which are not corrupted and which are incompatible - they also exist - by always choosing the truth, on the one hand, and on the other hand they are excluded from their appearances in all the dominant media, on the other hand, by the orders of the government in question - they are buried alive, that is to say, in a way - they are slandered and punished in every unfair way, without, of course, being understood by the public. For example, today we have been slandered by the government's representative as vaccine negligents, since, of course, we are not. Continuing, it is clear that the fight of people to defend their individual freedoms, as we were taught by democracy and Ancient Greece, including freedom of speech and press, is a permanent struggle, since no document, from the Constitution to the Declaration of Human Rights, provides any guarantee against the violations of these freedoms by the state, as can be seen from many historical examples. The authoritarian tendencies of the imminent democratic governments, such as the state of Greece today, are nothing new, since all these governments are trying to influence, if not manipulate, public opinion on the service of their own interests. In this context, they cooperate with the traditional sovereign media, with the polling companies, penalising them or punishing them strictly if they do not give in to money and pressure. We've been through this for a lot of us, personally. And they are willing to do almost anything to prevent the electorate from understanding exactly what is happening and what is the truth, especially when they are acting on behalf of foreigners, as is unfortunately the case in Greece, starting with the change of ownership status. We see it, we see it in conjunction with many compromises concerning national issues in the future. We will close with the provisional figures published by ELSTAT on Friday, which was also mentioned by the Prime Minister, the recession in Greece continued in the first quarter of 2021, when compared to the corresponding 2020 quarter, so it is right to compare our GDP again with 2.3%. These figures are extremely disappointing, especially in view of the enormous sums that the government spent in 2020 on lending. We would be very pleased if, when we hear about spending, we were told that they were in loan, about the EUR twenty-four billion in 2020 that we and our children would be asked to pay dearly, while it has already launched EUR 16 billion in 2021. Huge sums! In simple terms, despite the EUR twenty-four billion spent by the government, the recession developed in 2020 to 8.2%, although just 11.5% without ELSTAT's alchemys, there were again alchemys, and it continued in the first quarter of 2021. In this respect, we must note that the elements of the first quarter are temporary, which is of particular importance to our country, since ELSTAT revised them three times in 2020, while it adapted over the last decade. Even worse, this adjustment was about nominal GDP, which is happening for the first time in the world, reminiscent of the well-known history of Greek Statistics. This fact is important because Greece is governed by the same party at that time, from what has artificially increased its GDP by invoking the truce of the para-economy - the prostitutes we were talking about at the time - as well as the one that overcompensated it in 2004-2009. The result was to end up first in the IMF and then in the bankruptcy of the PSI with the condemnation of Greece in English law and its mortgage for the next ninety years. It seems, however, that nothing has unfortunately been learned from the past, since 2020 has increased both the twin deficits and the twin debts, spending huge sums on loaning to support consumption instead of the production of wealth by changing our failed economic and wrong tourist model. In this regard, we, of course, are not opposed to an increase in expenditure in times of recession, such as because of the pandemic, how much more so when with the support of the European Central Bank - twenty-five billion bonds have been bought by the European Central Bank, it is not the markets that reduce interest rates, it is not the markets that buy our bonds, the European Central Bank is doing so - it is guaranteed low interest rates. However, these costs should be incurred for investment and not for consumer purposes, just as a private or a businessman is right to borrow to invest and not to consume, since only then can he repay his loans. In this context, if Greece, for example, had increased its public investment by supporting productive sectors, would create, among other things, long-term jobs and would not waste money on subsidising unemployment. So the end of the pandemic would find it in a much better situation than the one it used to be. In terms of GDP growth of 4.4% compared to the fourth quarter that the government celebrated is clearly due to the increase in stocks, as we will be tabling in the Minutes, while consumption continued its downward course and the deficit in our trade balance in the four-month period was escalated by over 70%. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] In the future we will, of course, have a rise in GDP, something perfectly normal after a ten-year fall, followed by the collapse of the pandemic, but it will not benefit the Greeks at all. It will benefit only the new owners of Greece, as well as the domestic elites, while everyone else will continue to impoverish, hunger workers in outdated businesses now, as well as staying with rent in their homes, who will have been auctioned. To close, precisely for these reasons, the government constantly invokes pandemic, while the Prime Minister in his speech, like today, reminds us more of a doctor, that is to say, to hide all its failures in the economy, in the nationalities, behind COVID. But sooner or later, the Greeks will wake up, so they will be faced with the painful reality. Unfortunately, of course, for all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u100	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy, Mr Brutsi, and immediately thereafter the Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Karathanasopoulos, has the floor. Here, Mr. Brutsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u101	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will not spoil the beautiful climate that has been created, a climate that is the result of a broad consensus of the bill, and that is to honor all the sides of this House, a bill that is prosthetic in both the image of the country and internally in order to strengthen what we call vital for our country of tourism this year, which is a sovereign priority for everyone. I'll say a few things about it in second year. I am, however, obliged to what was heard as a criticism of a bill that was not worthy, but in any case to give some information to restore the truth to what the Greek Parliamentary Representative said just before, who started his speech in criticising the 2.3% recession in the first quarter of 2021 compared to 2020. What are we comparing, Mr. Comrade? Of course it's a recession. No one says it's not a recession. The pie of the Greek economy is squeeze, but you compare two things unlike each other. In the first quarter of 2020 January, February, Greece normally operated without a pandemic, in the first quarter of 2021 we were in a pandemic. So we compare two time periods with the economy closed and open to the economy and criticise, because we have a recession. Of course we'd have a recession. As we had a recession and 8.2% in total for 2020. You're right about the numbers. Do not forget, however, that all in 2020 after March basically our economy was closed with the exception of the short period of tourist season. And don't forget that on the part of you and on the other hand, the other party in Mera25 talked about a 15% recession. Maybe you didn't say it, 15% said Mera25 and landed at 8.2%. Aren't we satisfied? I wish we had growth, but it couldn't be done, just like it didn't happen anywhere in the world. All the world’s economies were overwhelmingly retarded. You are criticising us because we have given EUR 40 billion in 2020 and 2021 so far. So, do you not agree with the money we have given to support the Greek economy? Don't you agree to the advance return? Do you not agree on suspensions of employment contracts? Do you not agree on maintaining jobs? The result is here. You see that at the footprint level of the economy, as it now opens slowly, the evidence shows that businesses are staying alive. As for the crucial issue of unemployment - listen, why we have to talk about ELSTAT, which is unfairly criticised, which is dangerous - at the end of 2018, unemployment was 18.4%, 2019 was 16.3% and 2020 - during the pandemic period, the recession - closed to 15.55%. Does anyone question that? But you question it, and you shouldn't, because you're a very responsible and serious man, I'm watching you. This is where Members, ministers, party leaders, all of us, must keep certain independent authorities safe, and the evidence they give. You spoke just now about ELSTAT, criticizing, saying that the evidence it gives is falsified. But is it possible today, in 2021, to question ELSTAT and the evidence it gives us? Then it's overthrown, we can't talk about anything. ELSTAT, Mr. colleague, you know that, because you are an economist, is linked to Eurostat, the data it provides is evaluated, the evaluations that are being made are adopted and the assumptions used by the Greek Statistical Office are given by Eurostat. We don't function arbitraryly. This is how it is done in a favoured state, such as Greece. There is no question of that. I, as the head of the Minister of Labour during SYRIZA, never questioned either the elements of ELSTAT or the financial data provided by ELSTAT or the General Accounting Office of the State, because they are fundamental pillars of the country, which, without question, must be used by all of us and there to make criticism rather than question the evidence. It would therefore like to see a great deal of attention and seriousness when it comes to these independent authorities, because the policies are being built on them. And question the amount, which should be less or more, not because ELSTAT gives it, but because you don't agree with him. Secondly, this consensual image of the House is something positive and comes to give a print on something that unites us and does not divide us into the great national battle that our country gives against this unprecedented enemy of pandemic. We're starring. You question Prime Minister Mitsotakis that he first said so. We say that it is guaranteed in our country's positive that our Prime Minister spoke in January to Europe and said about the COVID digital certificate. From there on, however, this national deposit must not be tarnished by anyone. It must be a national reserve, which we all say is 'yes, that is in our country's favour'. This month the European Union is coming and accepts this process, and today we are taking the lead. They deserve congratulations to my friend, Minister Georganta and Mr Kyriakos Pierrakakis, who, on their initiative and their efforts, made the country proud that we were leading and were first in Europe with this digital certificate in operation. Madam President, you will allow me in the third part - because, due to the Prime Minister's speech, I have half the time from the parliamentary representatives - to say that I consider the Prime Minister's announcement of EUR 420 million to tourism, tourist accommodation, buses, hotels and agencies to be very positive. There is a need for tourism entrepreneurship in our country. It won't be like 2019. We hope to reach 45% to 50% of 2019. Last year we didn't go well, just because of the pandemic. In 2019, for example, we touched 18.2 billion euros with 9.7% of GDP as a product produced from tourism. In 2020, we crashed at 4.3 billion euros, 2.6% of GDP because of the pandemic. I am elected to a law which is mostly tourist in the Cyclades Prefecture, which, along with the Dodecanese Prefecture, is of interest - the gross national product of the South Aegean Region is 90% from tourism. So you understand that I, like you and I, have the same concern to succeed in this year's project of having an increased product of tourism in our country. It depends on what is called ‘individual liability’. I must acknowledge that at local level - I am touring the Cyclades - there are no reactions from the other parties, everyone consents and helps with this. They deserve congratulations to doctors, nurses and nurses, health centers, local hospitals, who do everything they can to get the world vacated. The parties, which also act in their way - I must say it - at local level and contribute to the national effort. To the municipal authorities, which are also trying to convince and encourage the world. Unfortunately, however, a 25% rate is not in line, and this is the big problem, which is putting the islands of the country at risk, the country's tourism product and all that national effort we are doing. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of Parliament, Athanasios BOURAS]] There are exceptions. On the island of Kythnos, for example, my friend the mayor of Stamatis Gardelis, along with the health center, has vaccinated 97% of the world. So let everyone be Kythnos, and let them take the example of Kythnos, because from the result of this effort, if it succeeds or fails, we will succeed or we will all fail together. If an island closes, it will not only affect the tourist product for this island, it will come out the negative image of the red on an island and this will negatively affect the whole of the islands, all of Greece and all of the country. I personally am optimistic. I believe in responsibility. With the passage of time we see the youth running to be vaccinated, for whatever reason everyone wants, either to have fun or to go on holiday fearlessly. The result is, however, that must unite us all, defeat the pandemic and get together and winners out of this difficult situation for the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, Mr. Brutsi. Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikos Karathanasopoulos, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u103	Thank you very much, Mr President. Of course, as a JRC, we will not claim the paternity of the digital certificate. We leave it for the rest, for the New Democracy, the SYRIZA or the Change Movement, for who was first inspired by the digital certificate. After all, it is a controversy, which is not about and is not about the protection of public health at all. On the contrary, as the Prime Minister himself sincerely pointed out, it is a tool that will give growth a toning injection, that is, it is a development tool. From this point of view, the dialogue between the parties on who has the paternity is precisely about highlighting who is a better manager, the fastest and most effective one in satisfying and serving business interests, such as, for example, expressing in our country that Greece is a safe tourist destination. Here is a very good example to show who is serving by such a logic. Is the needs of the people served for the pandemic and the protection of public health? We said no. Of course, health structures are not being upgraded in island and tourist areas. On the contrary, they are abandoned and cannot even meet the basic needs of the inhabitants of these regions. Is the people's right to tourism, recreation and vacation satisfied? But the vast majority of people's households can't take a vacation, they don't have the chance to do it. Or is it for the benefit of workers in the industry? After all, in the previous crisis where tourism became a champion at the level of development, workers experienced a working middle-aged with 16 different working relationships, with age racism, with intensification of work, with black labor. Nor was it, of course, for the benefit of all those active in the tourism sector. Because professionals and self-employed persons working in the tourism sector only accumulated are debts to banks, taxes and insurance funds. On the other hand, the minimum multinationals and large companies active in the industry have been dissipated. From this point of view, therefore, it is clear that it is of course a tool which is part of what the Prime Minister said at the time of recovery. But what development are we talking about, Minister? Are we talking about growth that will satisfy the needs of the people and workers or of growth that will prioritise the needs and hierarchies of business groups to shield competitiveness and profitability, in conditions where there are over-accumulated funds, which cannot be exploited? In this respect, therefore, the choice of green and digital transition is not something that concerns the fulfilment of people's needs. On the other hand, it concerns ensuring the profitability of business groups. For this very reason, both state-of-the-art and Euro-Union funding has specific prerequisites and what eligible projects these are. Projects, which serve and satisfy people's needs, are not eligible, such as earthquake shielding, the development of a primary care system. On the other hand, projects are eligible for projects which ensure the priorities of business groups. Also, this money will not come without prerequisites and conditions. The first prerequisite and prerequisite is precisely the new anti-territorial monastery. So, in other words, they will be accompanied by reactionary, anti-grassroots restructuring. So it will be a development, which will sacrifice labour rights in the altar of profitability of business groups, creating mechanisms for reproducing very cheap workers, without rights and consumables, because only in this way will it increase profitability of business groups. And the work monster that comes exactly that confirms. Secondly, it will be a development which will further widen the gap between the possibilities of satisfying the needs and the extent to which the needs of the people are met. That is why it is no coincidence that you want the people to learn to live with the few, to lower the standard of demand with what we call a minimum guaranteed income, privileged benefits. Because you know very well that in the conditions of growth, poverty and impoverishment will strike a very large part of the Greek people and not just the Greek people. It will therefore be a growth that will further exacerbate social inequalities. The wealth will accumulate in less hands, and on the contrary, the vast majority will live with less and less. Of course, it will be a development where it will prepare for a new, even deeper capitalist crisis. Because the system you serve is not going to get rid of the capitalist crises. From this point of view, the way out and a tool'several disease' is not technology and digital transformation of the economy of the State and the rest. Because, Minister, at least you must admit that technology does not bring neutral results. It is not technology that is unrelated to the relationship between ownership and production that prevails. Two very simple examples will confirm that. For example, technology makes a decisive contribution to improving and increasing the productivity of labour. Since it's in the hands of capitalists, though, what does that mean? It means thousands of jobs lost, flexibility in the labour market and even greater uncertainty for workers. While, on the other hand, this should be very simple, since labour productivity increases: workers work much less time, have much more pay and meet the needs they have. Why can't that be? It is precisely because the business groups, the capitalists, have the technology in their hands. On the contrary, technology in socialism will have different effects. The anti-galactic second element is exactly what we now see with vaccines, the huge war that has developed between the multinational vaccines. The most extreme example, however, and the most extreme one, which is the parasiticism of the system you defend, is India. India is the world’s first producer country in the production of vaccines and yet the world does not have time to burn the dead from the pandemic. This huge contradiction is confirmed at every moment. From this point of view, we are saying this clearly. The people must have no illusions and no waiting. Any neoliberal or neo-liberal management and any captain on the steering wheel will not exactly relieve him of the dead ends and contradictions of the system, from the unfair character. In this respect, therefore, we as a JRC, Minister, are not against technology. We're across from the man who owns it. On the contrary, you and your government and the other governments are deeply irrational. The Prime Minister referred to his speech on the vaccinations and the hesitation of a portion of the population. We as a party, from the first moment on, stressed the need for mass vaccination and access to all available vaccines, at the same time as the need to shield the health system. But the irresistible question arises: Who and what policy has left space and produced irrationality? Wasn't the government relics in the management of the pandemic? Wasn't it the logic that he put on and placed everything in individual responsibility rather than in the care of the state? Isn't that reasoning? To go a little further back and catch all the previous governments, wasn't it the dissolution of the primary health care that was responsible for vaccination in previous years? That is why we have not had a series of forgotten diseases in recent decades? From this point of view, therefore, and because all of this must not be forgotten, these government choices and regressions are the nourishment of irrationality. Politics, that is, attitude and action nourishes this situation. So let's go to the European certificate. It is clear that it is not related to the protection of public health, but rather is a tool for supporting the needs of business groups. That is why we too stress the need that this version, which is another aspect of individual responsibility, should not cover the enormous problems that exist in the public health system, in the national, as you call it, and in this respect, the need to take immediate measures to shield it. The health systems, which were tested in our country as well as in the other developed capitalist economies and were all converted into a disease system, with postponements of regular surgery, when the private sector measured its profits. Instead of drawing conclusions from all this, the government continues for the new era of the ESS with the same old materials of commercialisation, in which all other parties agree to trade in health. It is the joint component of the government, SYRIZA, the Change Movement and the rest of the Euro-Latin parties, the need to trade. In this respect, what did the Prime Minister say in his recent speech? He said that 'the pandemic showed good public-private cooperation'. Really? Where and where? Public sector workers kept in hospitals and fought for life while private hospitals had surgery of aesthetics and other kinds. The Prime Minister said that the EEA should operate as all major insurance companies and everyone enjoying services according to what insurance contributions he pays. So this is the deposit of individual responsibility and individual choice. Therefore, those who do not have the opportunity will only live with the networks as well as with the various non-governmental organisations. Finally, he said that public hospitals should become independent institutions, self-government, and in the end they will be accounted for the profits or damages they will have. So here's where it leads! It leads to further trade in health. It is clear that the Government is going to build on the debris left by all previous governments for the public health system, the operation of hospitals with private economic criteria, the application of PPPs to hospitals or leasing methods for diagnostic equipment and a number of other issues, such as closure of hospitals for infectious diseases and others, which were characteristic of all governments or also the flexible forms of work in hospitals, doctors and nurses and the merchandise of sectors, by means of contractors, cleaning, storage and a number of other functions in hospitals. In this respect, then, we are clearly saying that this digital certificate should not be taken into account so that the health protocols for the protection of workers at work are not complied with. Because that's going to happen at the end. There will be - it says - the European certificate, which is why we do not need the protection protocols and, therefore, the health and safety measures and the costs to be borne by companies - because it is a cost to them, and that is why the large business groups have become over-transmission centres - and so that the public transport is not decongested. From this point of view, we as JRC disagree and disagree for these very reasons, but we also disagree that our attention cannot be distracted from the fact that it can be a giant electronic enveloping mechanism with sensitive personal data. And there have already been a number of commercial agreements to exploit such personal data. It was a similar agreement signed by the Greek Government with PALANTIR, a company which is very characteristic of the action it has. It is, in other words, a company that is funded by the CIA and that has billions of contracts with the American Pentagon, for example. From this point of view, therefore, the need to protect human data, which is not guaranteed by the European Certificate, and that the implementation of this European Certificate can be a field of wider competition, geostrategic competitions, for example, for which vaccines will be included in it and which will not, for example, Chinese vaccines and others. That is why the JRC, Mr President, is voting against this provision on the European Certificate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u104	And we thank Mr. Karathanasopoulos. Until the New Democracy MP Mr. Stathis Konstantinides comes to Stepma, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sport, the Deputy Prime Minister of the Government, the Minister of Finance, Development and Investment, Foreign Affairs, Citizen Protection, National Defence, Education and Religion, Work and Social Affairs, Health, Environment and Energy, Justice, Home Affairs, Migration and Asylum, Infrastructure and Transport, Maritime and Island Policy, Tourism, State, Deputy Ministers of Finance, Development and Development, Home Affairs, and the Deputy Ministers of Culture and Civil Protection have submitted to the Prime Minister and Civil Protection on 8-6-2021 draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sports: "Development of the Committee of Professional Sports, harmonisation provisions with holistics study and civil protection, UFA - National Football Association, Reconstruction and Reconstruction Agency for the Construction of Greek FootballAssociation , Reconstruction and Reconstruction of the GreekFederation , ReconstructistFederation , Reconstruction of the Hellenic Federation of the Hellenic Federation and Reconstructist Federation of Socrement of the Greek Federation of the Greek Federation ofIntigulstiguls. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. The speaker of the New Democracy, Mr Stathis Konstantinides, now has the floor. Here, Mr. Constantinidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u105	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, if an interested tourist, seeking information on what is happening in our country, in relation to the CIVID digital certificate, falls on the placement of the SYRIZA spokesman, who, during the discussion in committee, claimed that Greece is a legislative and institutional bulb, that our tourist destinations may not be able to cover the many diagnostic checks that will be required and that they lack infrastructure and staff, really, will not be considered? If he read below that the Greek Prime Minister is trying to show the country of tourists attractive and that for the same reasons the government is rushing to implement the digital certificate, without actually being ready, really, will it not be shaken? If, in fact, the search engine immediately draws him up a statement by a Greek MEP of the same political area saying that it is not very serious to tell tourists to come here when we are in this position as regards pandemic, is there any chance that this man will come for tourism in our country? Only if it's Chuck Norris! If, of course, they were symptomatic positions, they could be attributed to the opposition ostracist of these speakers, but here we are talking about the constant political attitude of the SYRIZA, in more than one year, which we are faced with with with the dramatic consequences of the pandemic. In order not to be blamed for blind and harmful opposition, however, some of his executives claim that governmental uncertainty obliges them in this harsh language. But it's not like that. Since the first wave of the pandemic that the government has shown impeccably reflexive and, in general, professed, it has been an excellent management of the phenomenon, counter-population has not shown the responsibility required by the circumstances. Why, not forget, since when still SYRIZA criticized what he was closing and what he opened the little-soul promise - a threat that “we will be accounted for after”. Now whoever this "we will be accountable after" perceives it as an expression of consensus and unity in the face of a global threat speaks his own language, yet not Greek. Not to say, of course, about the second and third waves. That's where criticism hit red. At that time, SYRIZA accused the government of promulgating an unexistent vaccine, engaged in irresponsible manipulation of support measures, against all logic and public health, calling on our fellow citizens to protest. It also questioned the vaccination programme, the country's ability to carry out, the implementation of twenty-five thousand vaccinations, while, as it turns out, we have moved and have exceeded, on a case-by-case basis, the 100 000 doses per day. But even for self-tests they said. And what they didn't say about it! That it is of reduced credibility, that they will cause problems in the proper counting and tracking, that they will cause extra costs to those who are going to get positive, until their commission was made for "SIEMENS", to be forced, of course, after SYRIZA to a humiliating resilience, since this company, as it has proved, did not even participate in this competition. You're not bored, we've said one more thing! The truth, of course, is that some twenty million tests have been carried out so far and thirteen million digital statements have been made. Greece is among the five countries with most controls and almost 50% of the detected cases come from this particular process. However, SYRIZA did the same with the "Blue Freedom" programme that ensured the fastest vaccination in the island population, to protect the inhabitants of the islands and to emit a feeling, a security message in the tourist market. Yet, even this targeted intervention in the neural tourism sector has been systematically swept away by officials from the Anti-Population Officers. Finally, one wonders: But nothing was done properly in this process? Of course there were failures. Was the model written anywhere and everyone else faithfully kept it, except us? But there was so hostile and undermining, one could say - to remember "scanning" - the attitude of Officer Opposition during this critical period, which seemed to be politically betting on the disaster. Unfortunately, even today is the same pattern. Continuingly serve to harmful forecasts of tourism, the economy, for the future of the country. Fortunately, however, you are now acquainted with each other. To return to the initial example, let us hope that the visitor concerned will not fall on the statements of Greek Anti-Population, but will see the official figures, the international classifications, the positive evaluations for the vaccination programme, the decisive role of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, the inspiration of the project in the adoption of the digital certificate and Greece between the first states that implemented it and thus, he will choose our country for his holidays. Because if the opposite happens, a tourist accommodation will remain without tenant, a young man without income, who would have been given him summer work, major hotel facilities closed and the country without oxygen. But against Cassandra, Greece is in the lead and is one of the seven already nine countries that are in the first cycle of integration into the digital platform. It is a tool that will transmit quickly and safely between the participating countries the necessary information on whether someone has been vaccinated, diseased or has a negative test, with full assurance of his or her personal data. They are elements which will allow for a faster and safer movement of citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, everyone is aware of the importance of the digital certificate in the recovery of Greek tourism and the economy as a whole. This is another electronic application, such as many others, which have been implemented during the pandemic that makes Greeks' lives more good and more quality. All this, of course, would not be possible if the current government had not made a central choice for the country's digital upgrade. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u106	And we thank Mr. Constantinidis. The speaker of the Movement of Change, Mr. Andreas Poulas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the need to relaunch the economy and above all tourism, after a long period of forced immobilisation, due to the pandemic, is not only national but also a global cheque. In our country, the tourist product is valuable and this is based on a brave proportion of GDP. But last year's tourist year was not only a failed financial year, but also a sanitary year. We do not forget that the first cases, which filled Macedonia and Thrace with a coronary, were introduced from our northern border, while it was also wrong to only carry out sampling checks at airports. As much as the Prime Minister boasts that the algorithm worked, the results disprove it, so it is imperative this year to create a mechanism for the health protection of movements, in order to avoid the black results of last year. In principle, no one can oppose the creation of such a mechanism. However, we need to pay attention to certain issues arising from this process, because, as the management of your pandemic has so far proved, your government is dealing with communication rather than the substance. That is why your presentation of the digital certificate as panacea and as the absolute and unique ticket for safe trips is not in the right direction, obscures the truth, comforts the citizens. So let's start saying some truths. First truth: The World Health Organisation in April 2021 stated that it does not support the idea of a certificate of vaccination for transnational movements because there is still no complete evidence of how pandemic will evolve and, more generally, about how the virus behaves and why it discriminates between citizens. Second truth: the European Union itself was divided at the beginning with regard to the adoption of the certificate. The countries that have been reserved have expressed concerns about uncoordinated European action, about discrimination between vaccinated and non-vaccinated, about protection of personal data, security and confidentiality, and about citizens' reactions to a possible reduction in their individual rights. Even today when the measure will be implemented from 1 July in all the Member States of the European Union, it does not apply to a single system, but each country also develops one of its own. Third: The green certificate can only deliver, if applied in combination with other measures, such as strict compliance with health protocols at hotels, public transport, passenger ships, buses and aircraft, with many and massive tests in the population, as the World Health Organization has recommended since the beginning of the pandemic and with rapid test at the country's gates to all visitors without exception. With the acceleration of the vaccine programme, which is stuck, while the virus continues to circulate between us and where there are still areas in danger of getting into the red, although the government is being hit at the pace of vaccination, the truth is that only 22.4% of the population has received both doses. The figure in island Greece is about 42% to 45%. To build, therefore, an immunity wall requires vaccination of over 70% of the population. At the speed of vaccination, however, I would like to believe that we can achieve immunity by the end of the summer, because there is a risk, if things do not evolve as we expect them, that we have a resurgence in the autumn, a fourth wave, as we are told by scientists, who know things a little better than us. Finally, with citizens' awareness, in order to be persuaded to participate more massively in vaccination. A feature of Greek distrust is that 35% over eighty years have not even been dated, while in the same age group in Spain, Denmark, Ireland, around 100%. A certificate, therefore, 'does not bring Spring'. Furthermore, practical issues arise for the implementation of the green certificate, which has not been answered to date such as: will there be uniform directives and a common line with the other European countries with regard to visitors from third countries and vaccinated with vaccines that have not yet been approved by the EMA, such as "Sputnik" and “Sinopharm”? Will they be allowed to enter the countries of the European Union without quarantine or will each country apply its own national line? How will you manage the incidents of those visitors that will have been subjected to a PCR with negative result in the last seventy-two hours? How will it ensure the validity of the vaccination certificate with which visitors will be provided from third countries? How will false certificates and false results be detected from PCRs? These are problems that we put on the table. Finally, the reservations of those who are concerned about the protection of personal data, but also the danger of violating the individual rights of citizens, are not excessive. Ladies and gentlemen, by ending, I recognise that you are the government that manages communication on fingers. However, there is the essence of it and it does not do well, no matter how much the journalistic extremities are savouring you. As in health, as in tourism, your announcements bring hopes without reflection. We're the ones who hit the alarm. If you want real results both in terms of intercepting the viral load and in terms of increasing tourism, further measures are needed that, together with the vaccination certificate, will be able to create a health protection wall. In this respect, unfortunately, we see very few things. I hope you understand it and act properly before it is too late. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u108	And we thank Mr. Poulla. Mr Christos Dermenzopoulou has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, a draft law is being introduced to the National Representation today, before the National Representation - an incision to the Greek data, as it comes at a time when the COVID -19 pandemic continues to show its hard face. If we can, one year after the start of the pandemic, talk about all the steps that have been taken, we can easily say that important national and European moves have been made to control, deal with and limit the pandemic. Although the resistance of the states has been fully tested, the health system has successfully responded to ongoing pressures and adversities. The Greek Government, from the very beginning, has shown rapid reflexes and has acted immediately on a bold plan, based on the suggestions of the scientists and people in the first line. The health system has been strengthened, with citizens from the very beginning being allies on the difficult and up-to-date path of the pandemic. It is quite important, of course, that a relationship of confidence between the state and the citizen has been built throughout this entire period, despite the difficult measures that have been required to be taken. Greece - as the Prime Minister has repeatedly pointed out - has been an international example of defence against this unprecedented health crisis. But the danger is still here. A mistaken move, a squeeze can change the good and right path taken by our country and Europe in general. The government has shown, therefore, very quickly reflexively and has given a clear and strong signal: that the state mechanism must primarily be effective, all the co-operating bodies in the night and constantly there to deal with all problems that arise. The citizens have worked harmoniously for the treatment of pandemic throughout this period and now, of course, the time has come to enjoy the fruits of their efforts. The Greek Government, without hesitation, promoted the protection of public health, taking into account the recommendations of the scientists. From the very beginning it has - continues to take - a number of measures to support the National Health System, as well as measures to ensure social cohesion and to mitigate the economic impact of pandemic. The virus insists, thus extending the process for citizens, for the health system, for the economy. However, rapid progress in research and development of the vaccine against the virus has created good hopes that we are at the beginning of the end of this painful adventure. The Greek Government took a timely interest in drawing up an integrated National Operational Plan against COVID -19. Symbolically, this plan was named 'Freedom' to show all of us how we need to take these important steps so that we can return to normality as soon as possible. As vaccinations continue at an unrelenting rate, the free movement regime in the European Union also had to be immediately regulated safely and with certification guarantees. The Ministry of Digital Governance, since the first moment in the management of the pandemic, has introduced a big plan: to make as many transactions as possible with the public through a platform where the citizen directly, using his personal codes, receive the certificate he needs, without having to go to the service. Digital transformation for Greece was a challenge. With the need to deal with the pandemic it became necessary. We had to take care of the seamless and safe operation of the state from a distance, of citizens' services and of the safety of all. There was no time to adjust. However, it was taken immediately and with structured steps, through the Gov.gr platform, which is enriched daily with new services and new certificates. An innovation is to set up an appointment for vaccination and to issue all the certificates necessary for this purpose. Greece, therefore, gaining the know-how, is moving one step further. That is why Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis has already proposed the issue of a single European vaccination certificate in January. Recently and rapidly, the countries of the European Union and the European Parliament have agreed - after difficult, of course - on the elements contained in the European certificate, such as vaccination and recovery from the coronary. The facilities to be provided to those presenting the certificate are a matter for each member country. Member States will henceforth not impose additional restrictions on the holders of the certificate, in addition to those necessary to ensure public health. The certificate is digital proof that a person has either been vaccinated against the new coronary, or has been subjected to a diagnostic examination with a negative result, or - finally - recovered from the disease of COVID. The digital certificate system therefore comprises three main types of certificates, which are: vaccination certificate, examination and recovery certificate. It will contain all the data that each State needs to know about the sensitive personal health issue with regard to COVID. It does not impose restrictions, but facilities. It does not promote bans, but freedoms for the citizens of the European Union. All certificates issued through the national platform will also be in line with European directives on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data. It is clear and self-evident that as the data contained in the certificates contain sensitive medical data, a very high level of protection of such data is ensured. The certificates shall contain only the minimum information necessary, shall not be retained by the visiting countries and shall not exchange personal data. This single certificate will therefore ensure interoperability between the countries of the European Union, as it will be adopted on the basis of commonly agreed policies, rules and standards. Furthermore, it will also be able to facilitate travel to the European Union from countries outside the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, in the context of the broader digital transformation of the state, Greece together with seven other countries belonging to the European Union since 1 June have already given citizens the opportunity to issue these certificates, which are, without exaggeration, their freedom ticket. This major digital conquest, when placed in January by the Prime Minister, met a few supporters and more suspicion. Now, a few months later, the European Union, fully understanding the importance of this step, proceeded to specific moves in its implementation. It is important in the next few weeks that all Member States should fully finalise their national systems so that the system will be put into operation in time for the holiday season. The citizens of the European Union are looking forward to traveling again and want to do so safely. The acquisition of a certificate is a crucial step in this direction. The certificate, in particular, highlights Europe's technological leadership, with respect for our values and principles: data protection, participation and proportionality. It is therefore important for all the Member States to prepare themselves fully so that the system is put into operation on 1 July. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u110	And we thank Mr. Dermenzopoulou. The speaker of SYRIZA now has the floor - a Progressive Alliance Mrs Panayios Poulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u111	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the establishment and use of an operational certificate for COVID -19 has been taking place throughout Europe for months, a document with specific information on the health of European citizens that will ensure the health of movements within the Union. This debate was gradually crystallised in specific policies, formulated by the committee, voted in Parliament, adopted by the Permanent Representatives Committee and led to the forthcoming adoption of the European CIVID certificate -19. This development is very important, especially for our country, for which revenue from tourism is vital both for the public fund and for hundreds of thousands of workers. Despite what we have heard from the Prime Minister, what was his real contribution to this process, in which he claims a leading role? Mr Mitsotakis' proposal for a health passport has been banned by all the institutions of the Union. They did not hesitate, in fact, to reject it and its colleagues in the European People's Party and the conservative governments of Europe. Why would they accept a proposal, which left windows for violating sensitive personal data, while creating issues of illegal discrimination between citizens? Obviously, the government believes that the way it deals with, governs and legislates in Greece is also appropriate for Europe. But he learned that the communication management of even the most serious issues, the sloppyness, the lack of strategic planning and, above all, the deep contempt for the rule of law are coins that do not go through Europe. On the contrary, the contribution of the SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance and the Party of the European Left was crucial. The solution of the European certificate came essentially from the European Parliament with the strategic cooperation of the left-wing and social democrats. In this context, both in the national Parliament and in the European Parliament, we have drawn up a set of proposals, with uniform mobility management, with the adoption of common health protocols, with uninterrupted information on tracing techniques, accelerating vaccination and, of course, removing the protection of patents. In particular, in order to protect the national tourism industry, we have argued that a prerequisite for increasing tourists must be the negative test before entering our country. At the same time, for the effective protection of workers, we called for their priority vaccination, for continuous diagnostic tests at workplaces and, of course, for the strengthening of health structures at tourist destinations. Ladies and gentlemen, let us see, however, what our CIVID digital certificate -19 is introduced by the legislative act and what it has to do with the corresponding CIVID certificate -19. Despite the efforts of the government to convince us that our digital certificate is identical to European, the comparison between them reveals significant differences. In particular, we find shortcomings in all three cases: in the certificate of vaccination, diagnostic tests and recovery. In other words, the necessary references to the SARS - CoV -2 and its variations, to the precautionary treatment, to the number of doses, to the Member State of vaccination and to the issuing body of the certificate and to its identifier are missing. In particular, the recovery certificate shall also be valid for the dates of commencement and expiry of validity. Furthermore, they have - technically, rather - removed the insurance differences in Article 3 of the regulation and in the three cases, i.e. the duration of its validity, the reminder that it is not a travel document, and finally the requirement to issue a separate certificate for any new vaccination, diagnostic testing and recovery which requires a repetitive procedure. Of course, it seems that the cumbersome standards laid down in the legislative act, if they are not intentional bells, do not inspire trust in you, Mr Ministers themselves. How does it explain that the certificates from the government digital portal gov.gr faithfully copy the European standards rather than those from the legislative act you have tabled? Is it our own sterile opposition? Is it an extra handshake or a strange government practice? Or are you going to reform the platform after the legislative act has been passed? No, of course not. Obviously, you are trying to fish in the cloudy waters of this year's tourist market, again with communal tricks, and you are leaving us already, as we have heard from previous colleagues. For your constant security and lack of planning, blame us! You are sending the message, the signal to Europe's tourist customers that the Greek Government is not so strict on its health requirements, at least not until the full implementation of the European regulation. You tell the European tourist "if you find the requirements of the European certificate very repressive, then all you want is Greece". Ladies and gentlemen, it seems that the government did not learn much from last year's opening of tourism and its consequences in the course of the pandemic. Unacceptable health discounts in certificates are a spasmist and desperate option to testify to the absence of a comprehensive strategy for tourism. In addition, the non-assistance with staff and equipment of the national health system, structures throughout the country, raises serious questions about the management of the health crisis in the second opening of tourism: Where, and from whom, will the necessary thousands of diagnostic tests be carried out per day, when the tourist season reaches its peak? What health structures on the islands or inland, which today do not respond to the universal care of the local population, will the millions of visitors also treat? You're saying you're not dissolving health structures. Besides, we have heard about your plans and the Prime Minister. I have just been informed that you also dismantle the IKA of the Oinophilus Area - because, as a Member of the region, I am obliged to bring the citizens' demands here too - to Parliament in the largest industrial area in the country. They will be served - you say - now moved to Thebe, km away. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will need one more minute. Please be indulgent. Ladies and gentlemen, at the same time as care, we should have arranged for tourists to stay. With what plan did the government support small and medium-sized hotel businesses, which are not only located in the popular destinations of the first line but also in the rest of the country? How many have they finally received aid and been able to open up? Small and medium-sized tourist enterprises throughout the country, but also in our region, Boeotia, Fokida, Delphi, Arachova and the coastal areas of Evia and Corinthian raise a voice of agony, which the government systematically does not listen to. Conversely, they call for financial support, but also for a strategic development plan for their regions, with a necessary infrastructure upgrading. Mr President, you have not even achieved the task of restoring the ancient Delphi theatre, the navel of the earth, to move forward - it is two years late - and I have asked the Minister for Culture about this. It seems that beyond the cementation of the Acropolis for the "go, world" and the partition of antiquities, which revealed the metro of Thessaloniki, you are not willing to do much about our monuments. But if you're planning such intervention in Delphi, you'd better insist on your inertia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, Mrs. Pulou. He has the floor now, after he has prepared the Step, the MP of the New Democracy, Christos Boukokouros.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek hoteliers are not asking for financial support. To find a way to open up the way for European tourists to come to our country. Why financial aid this government has given more than half a billion dollars recently announced in the past few days and has been repeated today by Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis from the Step of the House. But, in order to open the hotels, work and get the economy and tourism machine ahead, we need to open a highway and the avenue opens it up by the European Certificate. At the same time as the debate that is taking place here, ladies and gentlemen, at the same time the question of the European Certificate is being discussed in the European Parliament and tomorrow, apparently, will be voted on by a large majority in the European Parliament as well. Really, how many times do we enjoy the satisfaction of a pure Greek proposal adopted by the European Parliament and all the European peoples of the Union? Rarely. We always plead unjustified, that Greece does not listen, that it cannot pass its positions and opinions. We are talking here about a proposal from the Greek Prime Minister, which has been tabled in time since January 2021. It met reactions between European governments and European media. But today it is being done and already nine European countries have signed and by 1 July the European Certificate Agreement will be in force in all European countries. What are we living in the Greek Parliament today? From our right, to accuse us of a personal data report and from our left to blame us for incomplete evidence on the certificate. We are probably going well, ladies and gentlemen, because the European certificate, we must all understand that it is not a travel document. Even the data that it contains, for example, the name in the application gate will not come to the surface, will only be read by electronic signature, precisely because it has been done in accordance with the GTPR Regulation and because the electronic signature of each certificate has a QR code, which is why personal data are guaranteed and is the absolutely necessary data for the dates of vaccination when we talk about vaccinated fellow citizens and European citizens. What, then, is the reaction and criticism? I understand that there is also an opposition to opposition, but the European certificate, ladies and gentlemen, will not involve the pandemic. It's not a sanitary measure. It is mainly an economic measure. In the summer we will have 40% to 50% vaccinated European citizens. What do you want? Should we leave the country in a cloud, not participate in European developments, not first, should the vaccinated Europeans not know that in Greece they may come on holiday without entering quarantine and, above all, not knowing that they will return to their country, which will be compatible with the European certificate, without risking the need for another week of quarantine? That's what destroyed last year's tourism. No one would come on vacation in Greece a week and then stay two weeks quarantine. So that is what businessmen and workers want in our tourism, to give a passport of freedom, to open up a highway, which will lead from Europe to Greece. That is why the Prime Minister has made this proposal in good time, which is now officially adopted throughout Europe. Who are reacting to the certificate, as they were not due, because it is not a health measure, as we have said, that is an economic and social measure? The anti-invasives. We can't do much for them. They're ideologists. And for other vaccines, they probably believed what they said about the CIVID vaccine. However, there are also some other respondents who would say that they are beneficial, ochartists - they are a category that has emerged lately - who are thinking 'when the rest of them will be vaccinated and make a wall of immunity, why should I be vaccinated?' These people, in my view, are smugglers of life and society. They really do not take responsibility for their social responsibility, and they really make it difficult to fight the virus, to fight COVID. So, seriously, the Prime Minister and the government are making use of the country's digital transformation and entering the European battle for returning to normality. Because that's what we're talking about. If we're going to talk about the vaccination program, it's another conversation. And there Greece has done so well, very well, very organized, very digitally, as much as any other country in Europe. How many times do we have the honour in this Chamber to discuss the fact that we are taking the lead in Europe in a giant vaccination programme which humanity, ladies and gentlemen, has not known? We consider them to be a simple, trivial opportunity for opposition, an opportunity for confrontation. It's not like that. Kyriakos Mitsotakis can be led by the Government, but these achievements and the complete vaccination programme and the European certificate belong to the entire Greek people. They belong to all of us, helping to uphold the image of the country and the Greek people, who have been so obscured - unjustly more often in my humble view - during the years of the crisis. Finally Greece shows that it can not only return to normality, confront not only challenges of this scale, such as pandemic, but show the way to other European peoples who didn't even want to hear about Greece just two years ago. So all this is important achievements. Let us make use of them, let us continue, because this is the way, which ranks the Greek people and the country among the advanced European peoples, a position that belongs historically to us and which we have never conquered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u114	And we thank Mr. Bukouros. The speaker of the New Democracy, Mr Anna Mani - Papadimitriou, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, one could never imagine that the right to free movement of European citizens within the territory of the Member States, namely the cornerstone of the building of United Europe, would be at some point any restriction. However, the unprecedented pandemic and exceptional health crisis conditions have shaped their own data and forced most Member States to close their borders and impose restrictions on movements from other European Union countries. In the face of this new reality, the political leadership, not only of our country, but also of all of Europe, has had to demonstrate quickly reflexively and, without time-consuming any means, any tool that would speed up the relaunching of economies and the return of people to normality. It is precisely these elements that our Prime Minister, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, demonstrated for the first time in January of this year, when he spoke about the need to create a common digital certificate throughout Europe, which will allow citizens to move freely from one country to another. This proposal has been dealt with at the outset with caution. But very quickly, the European leaders realised how useful such a tool will be for tourism as well as for the general European economy as well as for the right to move citizens. In this way, the digital certificate was fully adopted at the extraordinary European Council meeting of 24 and 25 May, which also set the objective for its rapid implementation. So if we want to be fair, ladies and gentlemen of the Anti-Population Officers, we will have to hand over the Caesar Caesar and talk about a great fairness of our Prime Minister, not only of the insight and immediateness with which he has acted here, but also of the particular effort he has made to convince European partners of the value of this digital tool. After the above, the government moved rapidly and proceeded with the adoption of the CIVID digital certificate -19 by the 30-5-2021 act of legislation that is now being ratified, another conquest of the huge digital leap carried out by the Ministry of Digital Governance in recent times in our homeland. This legislation is dictated for reasons of speed, both symbolic and substance reasons. Because the certificate was based on our own proposal and Greece wanted and should be included in the first countries to implement it, but also for substantial reasons, since the summer has already begun and every day of the application of the certificate means less, it means more tourists and more profit for our country's economy. But let us see what the certificate is and how it is issued. It shall be issued free of charge at the request of the person concerned in three cases: First, when the person concerned has completed the vaccination procedure. Secondly, when diagnostics have been tested with negative result. Thirdly, when he has diseased and recovered from COVID disease -19 in recent months. It has a digital signature, in our country it is issued through gov.gr, but also through JEPs, and today we now have more than 230,000 certificates issued. Of course these are done with the absolute respect and protection of the citizens' personal data, which in our country is achieved through a two-tier security system, and through the general data protection regulation, as well as through Article 2 of the draft law. Ladies and gentlemen, the European Certificate of Vaccination was established to facilitate the free movement of citizens within the European Union. In no case is it compulsory, in any case it is not a precondition for traveling. Those who do not have it always have the opportunity to travel under the existing rules of each country. The certificate has not come to separate European citizens, but to unite them, to bring them closer and always with the necessary security. Greece is not only the country that inspired it, but it is also one of the first countries to implement it and this gives it enormous added value as a tourist destination. The excellent course of the vaccination program, in combination with the certificate, is the weapons that the Greek tourism industry has, as countries that will win the tourism bet this year will be the ones that will create the necessary sense of security for tourists as quickly as possible. Personally, I believe that it will also work beneficially for tourism in my country of Pieria, and will help our businesses to recover as quickly as possible, along with the financial support already announced. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek Prime Minister took the lead in creating a European recovery fund and this fund became a reality. It has then recommended the creation of a certificate of vaccination for the free movement of European citizens, which also becomes a reality. That is why the European Certificate is even more important. In addition to the undeniable value for the economy, it is proof that Greece, through so many difficulties, now has the place it deserves in the European soil. Its proposals are now loudly heard and eventually heard by our partners. We say that, without a trace of pregnancies, but because it's reality, we just say it, with pride. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u116	And we thank Mrs. Manny. The speaker of the SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, Mr Andreas Xanthos, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u117	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I was reading an article the other day and someone was talking about sustainable governmental intrusion. I think we have lived with this today and with the speech of the Prime Minister, but also with all the colleagues I have heard before. The truth, ladies and gentlemen, is that we are at a very critical pandemic, there is no successory, and it is challenged to come here and go and say that you have done it. Even in the critical area of vaccination we are very far from the national objective, but also from the European objective of having the beginning of the summer Immigration Wall. We're at 22%. This is the hard number, since 22% of our country's citizens have full vaccination coverage and 38% of course, they have taken a dose. This means that all the philology about safe rebooting the very vital tourism economy, unfortunately, is in the air. Do you really think this is being dealt with through a digital tool like the certificate? For which, in principle, I now hear incredible things. 'The Emblematic Initiative of the Prime Minister'. The Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, spoke of a vaccination certificate, and that was a health mistake, because we know very well that those who are vaccinated have the possibility, to a lesser extent, of - and this proved to be scientific - to be asymptomatic bodies and to broadcast. Europe, therefore, did not follow Mr Mitsotakis' proposal and did not adopt a vaccination certificate, but adopted a digitalised certificate, which concerns the profile of a European citizen as a whole in relation to pandemic, namely vaccination, recent negative molecular control and, of course, certified antibody control disease. It is quite a different thing, for which you are taking it to be the major flagship initiative and innovation. If anyone made a flagrant move, which was justified by the developments, is the Chief of Officer Alexis Tsipras, SYRIZA, the European Left, who raised the problem in good time and up-to-date from late December to early January and when manufacturers could not respond to demand, the issue of the lifting of patent protection. Then came the former prime ministers and then came nobelists, and then Biden came in and changed the conversation globally to these issues. So this is the innovative initiative, which is also at its core progressive, because it promotes the idea of equality and global solidarity. The certificate is a useful tool, which is why we are voting in favour of the regulation with these three knots. The big question is what its use is, and that is the problem with Europe, that while deciding on a common European Certificate, its use is not clarified and, in essence, it is placed on the Member States to handle it properly. What element, in other words, of the three of the Covid certificate will be crucial for citizens' movement? We say to be the negative molecular, not diabetics, or vaccination, or negative test or disease certification. We want to limit the degree of precariousness and not destroy nor, of course, invest in a lost tourist year. It is a bet of national and social importance that tourism and vaccination should go well, obviously, but, in order to do this, we must strengthen the health standards and not go to a reasonable discount - they are supposed - to be competitive with other neighbouring countries in the Mediterranean. So we need a high standard. It was wrong, for example, to select the self-test diagnostic methodology. We've talked too much about it. It was a high health risk, for example, the possibility of moving to the islands of Greek citizens only by self-test, which you know very well that it has problems with credibility as a method, but also with the credibility of the statement. I think, therefore, that this is where the priority should be, to what the conditions and, above all, of course, to talk about shielding the tourist product and about sustainable re-launching of tourism this year, we must definitely put in the equation a great investment in the public health system, its structures, the islands, the tourist areas, public health services, not only in care services, but also in public health services which have competence to protect and prevent the health of the people against communicable diseases, regional public health laboratories and, of course, the staffing of all of them with sufficient, experienced and qualified human resources through a new grid of incentives. We have presented in public - we will also put forward a legislative initiative - a framework which is very structured and documented, we have consulted it with representatives of workers in the ESS, with local societies, which provides for interventions, which will increase the attraction of doctors, particularly, but also workers from other health professionals in the insular and island regions. We need investment in the public health system and not, of course, as the Prime Minister recently opened the debate, who thinks that the brothel has gone through and can restore the neoliberal account of the ESS's openings to the market. In fact, he said the terrible thing, which I personally have not heard from a neoliberal mouth for decades ago, that the founding n.1397 of the ESS, set up by the National Health System, in its view, is not a purely state matter. Well, either you bring a law to change the founding law of the HR, change it, or you shouldn't say that again. The National Health System, public structures, public hospitals, public primary care structures and their staff are a purely state matter. This does not mean that there will, of course, be no private sector, which will act in complementary and complementary terms. This is another issue, and another issue is to question the public nature of the ERC. For this is what the Prime Minister did in his speech, showing that he has understood nothing from the pandemic and the universal demand that there be a brave intervention, a strengthening of the public health system. I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying this. The certificate in relation to COVID, European certificate and national certificate is not a tool that faces inequality. The big problem with pandemic is inequality, global inequalities. It's not a tool that faces inequality. Another type of intervention is needed, such as what we have said before, and other types of regulation at a global level, particularly in terms of medicines and vaccines, but also medical devices, so that all people in the world can access innovative products and achievements in science. This certificate is at stake, if it is not used properly, to increase disparities, to create discrimination, and even though we agree to that. Of course, if it is not accompanied by measures to shield the public health system as a whole, the public health services of the country, their human resources, their infrastructure, their equipment and, in general, what we call 'public health', I think it will really be completely ineffective to meet the current needs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u118	And we thank Mr. Blonde. Please prepare the Step in order for the State Secretary for Digital Governance to take the floor, George Georgios Georgios.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Vandemeulebroucke, I have listened very carefully to your speech because you are characterized by a mild political speech, but indeed, by the conclusion of your speech I did not understand it. I did not understand this left mark, which must definitely enter into the debate on inequality and the combination you have made in relation to the digital certificate. The digital certificate comes, just to make it easier for everyone, either those who were vaccinated, or those who have neither of the other two features and simply want to do a negative molecular test or rapid test, register this and travel with it. What more democratic, what fairer, what easier and easy to use! To understand the world: The digital certificate is not about those vaccinated, it is not about them alone. It is about those who do not want - for whatever reason - to be vaccinated. What do we do with them? We are essentially strengthening their right to free movement. That is what Europe is doing right now. Europe, which has always given the right to freedom of movement between Member States, now, because of the pandemic and because of the restrictions that have been imposed - there have been hardships, there have been bans imposed by each country - and it comes in a uniform way and decides to put these rules, precisely as a tool for facilitation. However, because you have spoken of inequality, I should also like to give it a dimension that no one has given it here today. Until now there has been a very easy criticism in the European Union - not just from the left - that it always serves the interests of the northern countries. The digital certificate is adopted at a rate which is unknown to the European Union in order to facilitate who? Tourism, Greece, Italy, Spain and Portugal, the South. At the moment, Europe is voting for the South, not only is it voting to facilitate travel by everyone who wants to travel, but basically to strengthen the potential for economic recovery through tourism for the countries of the South. The 'bad' Europe, the 'bad' European Union', therefore, makes a record of helping Greece take part in tourism, Italy, Spain, Portugal and these four countries. So I think that we are having a debate, which - I am going to have to say again - has elements of a miserable opposition to something that is great, something that is good, something that facilitates all citizens throughout the European Union, whether they have been vaccinated or not, or want to go on a leisure trip, whether they want to go on a business trip or want to go to a neighbouring country for one day and return. We do this in a way that has two features: speed and reliability of the system. Speed, because very quickly control is done, and at the same time you are sure about the reliability of control, because through the single digital portal you know that the document you display is valid, has been issued by the public authority of the State of origin, which you have agreed and must be issued by it. So I think that it is not worth it, it is not worth the Greeks who are trying, it is not worth the Greeks who are listening to us talking about this measure, which Europe has introduced and Greece has taken part in. How do we do it? Now we want to come over and change the words, the expressions? But the first to mention it in the European Commission was Mr Mitsotakis. Now whether or not he has another name, the target was one, to make it easier for the citizens to travel, and that is what happens. May I remind you that this certificate was referred to by the Chief of Officer's Responsibility as a certificate of irresponsibility? That's what it was called. Can I remind you what you were saying about self-tests, where we were from the first countries to do so? I would remind you that we were among the first to be one of the Greek Prime Ministers, together with seven other countries, who called for the immediate economic response of Europe and the strengthening of the economies, and we now have a Recovery Fund, to which we are the first to be one, which we have tabled a complete plan and are ready to move forward in all the next steps? What can we do? Greece is in the lead! I think that is ultimately something that we should not see intimately politically and politically, because in the end the people who support each of these parties will also assess us with this attitude. The world wants Greece to be in the first place, to be innovative, to give examples of good practice that others follow. Why should we be last, so that we can have an easier opposition? Regarding vaccinations: A hundred thousand vaccinations a day. Three months ago, SYRIZA's Chief said "Twenty-five thousand, can we ever get that number?" Why didn't he come out and say a good one to all those who have managed without problems at a very good rate, which we serve a hundred thousand fellow citizens who are vaccinated every day? He said that the twenty-five thousand are an inappropriate number. We've got to get this over with. Today, the Prime Minister referred to this and rightly mentioned it. What to forget? Should we forget the expressions for dispersal? Forget the support for the marches at a very critical time for the country, where the pandemic was really in the ghetto? We can't forget about it, but we're ending up with something. This cycle closes a little - a little. There must be a coup d'état from all of us first, in order to be vaccinated as much as possible, to convince those who are still skeptical about this unique weapon, which we have to deal with and then all with proposals, which can be adopted - we are not negative in adopting proposals - to be able to have a substantial recovery in the economy. Today, the Prime Minister made such an appeal, called for all political forces to be assembled for this next period. And we are starting with miserable crises, with references to the past which had nothing to do with today's debate, and at the same time we are trying to deceive the subject of today's debate, which is one, is specific and has been recorded in the consciousness of the Greek citizens that it is a success for the whole of Europe, which started from the thought not of Kyriakos Mitsotakis - forget the Greek Prime Minister. Greece is honouring this. The Greek Prime Minister's initiative honors all Greeks. Today the Greek MEPs, who are in the European Parliament, feel proud to see that, in essence, an idea has been implemented and adopted by the European Parliament, which the Greek Prime Minister had. I think, therefore, that in attempting to inform the world properly - we must inform the world properly, not to misinform and not to create confusion - we have spoken, Mr Katsi, about the gov.gr and you have also adopted the public statement of the Informatics Union, which the Personal Data Protection Authority has come down to date and has effectively dismantled, saying that the measures taken to ensure the safety of gov.gr are sufficient. One cannot undermine this attempt at digital transformation of the country, which is done and whoever attempts to do so, not with the New Democracy, not with the Ministry of Digital Governance, not with the Government, with the millions of fellow citizens who embraced this effort, support it, use it, implement it, because I too want to give a political signal to the gov.gr and to the digital transformation of the country. The Government of New Democracy therefore comes to give a step forward and a chance to serve, to deal with civil affairs without the necessary physical presence. This basically refers to the ordinary civilian workers, who have not had the time to leave their work to go to a public service, to mothers who have young, minor children and cannot let them go to a public service, to a disabled person who cannot leave his home, to move to park outside a public service and to do his job, to the Greek immigrant in Germany and cannot leave his job to do a proxy of 500 kilometers away, to send Greece to do his job. We are addressing the ordinary Greek citizen, the one who did not have the money, the one who did not have the opportunity, the one who had the acquaintances, the one who did not have the time and the one who could not be troubled all the time to deal with his cases. We give him the opportunity to deal with his cases at home at night when everyone else sleeps, when the father is back from work, when the mother sees that the children have slept and enters twelve o'clock at night asking for the processing of a digital service and manages it. So to them, we are giving this possibility. This is the sign of our own policy and it is a sign, which really concerns all Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u120	Thank you too, Minister. Mr Katsis has been asked for the floor as a parliamentary representative. Here, Mr. Katsi, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, Mr President. I want to reply to the Secretary-General and to what I have heard earlier. I don't know why, Mr. Undersecretary, you really were so aggressive from the Step of the House. You'd better go inside the government. Did you hear what Mr Themistocleus said today on a global-wide channel? No vaccines and doses are available for all ages. Are you coming and attacking us? Mr. Petsas wasn't your Minister and Government Representative when he said two million vaccinations a month? Didn't you say so? Two million a month didn't you say and now you're telling us we're supposed to tell you a good thing after six months all of this? Are you serious?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u122	Three million vaccinations a month.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u123	Minister, you'll answer later. Don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u124	You can answer anytime you want. In any case, Mr Secretary, the Prime Minister has found everything very well today. He found nothing to say about the fact that there is a prosecutor's order for 100% death in Aetolokarnania's and Edessa's, about the fact that he spoke about privatization of the national health system, as if he had understood nothing from the pandemic period, that rich and poor all rushed to the public health system to find care and you are now suddenly coming, remember your election program, as if you hadn't learned anything, you didn't learn anything at all. The Prime Minister said so that you could understand the core of your government's perception. In the mouth of the President-in-Office of the Council, he said that there would be nothing to say to the catering shops, if they suddenly decide to accept only vaccinated ones. Can you explain what that means, Mr Georganta, if you do so in connection with Mr Themistocleus' statement today? Can you tell the Focus Entrepreneurs? Can you tell the citizens who are distinguishing citizens in two categories, as if they were their own individual responsibility, which is not enough for vaccination? In any case, this is not just a technical matter, it is also a political matter. You are here only the ministers and the Undersecretaries, the political leadership of the Ministry of Digital. Where's the Department of Health? Here we have the chief and former minister, Mr. Andreas Xanthos, taken office. Where's the Minister of Health? Where is the Minister of Tourism, Mr. Theocharis? BBC only comes out and becomes robe. Tell me where he is. Is that a digital technical matter? Mr. Xanthos told you earlier that it has something to do with the issue of use, how exactly we will manage, yes, to be a safe passport. In what sense? In the sense of the facility, without widening inequalities, but at the same time not jeopardising the health situation, the pandemic. For all this, you have nothing to say. You're unrepentant. You're really, stuck. You have remained in a neoliberal doctrine, in a concept that you really are out of date. Europe is changing, it's talking about new priorities, and so is America, and you are left to lose the most failed recipes of King and Thatcher's past. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u125	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Mr President. One minute I'll only need because I think there's not much to be answered. Now, however, in relation to the ministers you are referring to. Here is the ratification of the legislative act, which is precisely because it has the characteristics of this certificate, the Government was represented by the Ministry of Digital Governance. There have been a lot of discussions, we will have other discussions. There have been too many debates on health, also on tourism, whenever you want. So don't tell me where those guys aren't supposed to be here. Whenever you want to have a debate on both health and tourism issues. That's the first. Let me tell you something. The Greek citizen three months ago remembers the Prime Minister saying that the twenty-five thousand are an inappropriate dream, remembers Mr. Petsa saying that we will get two million vaccinations a month. Now that we are in the two and a half million vaccinations a month - is it more than two and a half million vaccinations a month - there is no recognition of this attempt and this mistaken assessment, which was made three months ago? Three months ago, they counted the years that will take for all Greeks to be vaccinated. Mr. Tsipras said that at this rate, in 2023 everyone would be vaccinated. In relation to the use of this certificate, although I think it is clear to me to have fun closing it, I am sure that the left-wing group in the European Parliament will also save us from that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u127	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u128	Mr President, I would like the floor, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u129	No, it can't. We're not gonna do a physarmonic.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u130	I asked a question which the Minister did not answer and I would like you to give me the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u131	Mr. Katsi, I gave you the floor, you answered the Minister, and the Minister answered you. This thing can't go on. It's just things and math just. Mr. Logiadis has the floor, MP of Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u132	So why are we fighting, since all three in the body one will be voting for? I remember the Minister for Development, Mr Georgiadis, every time there is a controversy - every time - it says: 'we and all the same are voting, so there is no reason to fight'. Minister, because you mentioned the subject of the Greek language beforehand - very well you did - I would like to state in the Minutes who vacates the world. The Greek government? Oh, no. The world, the citizens, is vaccinated by the Hellenic Republic. That's a mistake. I'll give it to you. [[At this point Mr Georgios Logiadis presents for the Minutes the above document, which is located in the Registry Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] There are, of course, countries which do not even ask for such a COVID digital certificate. They say: "Come here and take a vacation and we will inoculate you." I have nothing to add to what our Parliamentary representative Mr Claus Grigoriadis said earlier. It was an excellent placement. I would like to give another dimension to our debate. The draft law, as we have said, contains three articles, where the third refers to the entry into force. The other two articles are essentially technical specifications. It is now being introduced into the House, but its implementation has already begun since 1 June. The objective set by the draft law is to facilitate freedom of movement - I read precisely - 'to stimulate both internal and external tourism'. But let us see if that is what this objective is all about. Let us see what another country has done, Israel. By mid-March this year, he had completely inoculated the world. After a month he opened the economy, shops, catering, and on May 23, he began to allow entry into the country to small and limited groups of vaccinated tourists. Since July, it will allow for a further entry of individual tourists. No one asks Israel for a green or digital passport, because there is no reason, since more than 90% of the population over the age of sixteen are vaccinated. What could we learn as Greece, but also as the European Union from the example of Israel? Mass vaccinations and a partial opening step - step by step of the economy. What are we doing in Greece and the European Union? We are stalled because of the differing interests between French and German, but also with the United Kingdom. We are now going to the objective of today's draft law on the opening up of tourism. We all know that the European Union is in economic war with both the United Kingdom - because of Brexit - as well as Russia and this war has an adverse effect on tourism. In Greece we have massive cancellations from Great Britain, the two market number for Greece, at least until the end of June. Our country's on the orange list. The Germans - the number one market for us - are staying in Germany and the full details of the hotels have been out there because they don't trust them. For Greece only wishes and expectations. Reservations show it, which is much worse than last year. The Germans have not yet introduced the digital passport, using only their health booklet to certify that they are vaccinated. On the other hand, the other big market, Russia, where the Minister for Tourism had visited Moscow, the numbers there are too low. Any hotels opened since mid-May only damages are recorded. I should also like to stress that there is a relentless war of offers and prices between hotel operators that destroys the market, business and workers. Because one is hitting the price of another, so he can get, steal, part of the few tourists there. The complete catastrophe! Recently the Pan-Hellenic Hotel Association expressed its fear that this summer we will live in situations where areas will be opened and closed - I read just - 'it will be a total disaster'. And it goes on: 'If the country does not become green, tourists will not come'. These are for foreign tourism. For the internal market, what can I say here? You do not even open the indoor cavity for the vaccinated. Just practical things. It is only communication your game and you create a plastic image. You have recently advertised the digital certificate to the President of the European Council. It is, however, a certificate without practical reflection, but also a dangerous piece of legislation. What's your hurry? The wise people say: 'Whoever is raped is stumbling'. You are in a hurry, because one of your analysts says that 'our salvation now is tourism'. I read just: "The financial staff are changing color only to the idea that 2021 may not even come to Greece 50% of 2019 tourists." I would stress, however, that we should not just look at quantitative elements, but also qualitative ones. The SETE figures show that the average per capita consumption from 814 euros in 2000 fell to 565 euros in 2019. The digital certificate you are advertising is expected - and I stress it is expected - to join the European Union on 1 July if everything goes well. We saw very recently, after the European football final between two English teams in Porto, Portugal, that while Portugal was on the green list, it entered an orange night, because the cases were launched, with disastrous consequences for the country. What about the European Football Championship, which starts on 11 June next Friday in the Olympic Games in Rome? It will take place in twelve cities of Europe at the same time: London, Glasgow, Saint Petersburg, Seville, Budapest, Munich, Amsterdam, Baku, Copenhagen, Bucharest, Rome. The final one's in London on July 11th. Sixteen teams will take part from sixteen countries. The dispersion that is taking place in the midst of a pandemic such an experiment is huge. I should like to stress that the Germans have long cancelled the famous "Oktoberfest", which is held annually in Munich in October. We at Mera25, as the Greek arm of the European Diem25, stressed from the beginning of the pandemic the strengthening of public health and the creation of a network of public centres for mass tests throughout Greece, integrated into the National Health System, where it would then be transformed into vaccination centres. Use all available means to deal with a vaccinated fiasco and our duty as Europeans to supply the developing countries at the same time and directly with the vaccines that their peoples need to stand together and limit the coronary in the world. He always asks: 'How much does it cost?' We have no evidence, no figures, no cost-benefit analysis for this bill. Or was it to give money to some specific or further hidden thoughts or platforms, servers. Software is not Greek. In conclusion, I should like to say that the penalty must be reduced, as Mr Pierracakis promised, for them, especially for young girls who wanted to be vaccinated and dated, but who wanted to change the type of vaccine. Why is the system imposed on these one month's penalty people? It's absurd, unjust and outrageous. Finish with the vaccines. That's what people want in tourism, in focus. No need for digital passports. Look what Israel did. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u133	Thank you, too. Mr Manos Konsolas has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u134	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by expressing my complete satisfaction at the excellent work you are doing at the Ministry, Minister. I would like to congratulate you, by interpreting the feelings of citizens throughout the whole territory and especially of island citizens. I oppose the points made here by colleagues from the Civic Opposition, because it is not a argument that the Prime Minister is not interested in health structures on the islands, when he himself had given the signal and directions of how the structures should be shielded on the islands, when he has visited health structures on several occasions and when he is moving solutions and developments in terms of human resources, logistics and the equipment of these structures. On the other hand, of course, we are not discussing health certificates either for national citizens or for visitors. The Minister, Mr Georgantas, has previously put this ratification on the right foot, namely the issue of a COVID digital certificate, which we are discussing today after the deposit of the bill from his Ministry. I am very happy, you know, because that was a request and if you read public Members' positions from all the political groups, you will also find from all the parties - I am addressing my colleagues in Officerial Response - that this was a national objective. So today, Minister, Mr President, with the ratification of the legislative act establishing the European Digital Certificate COVID -19, a national objective is being drawn up. In a country where its economy is based on tourism and that is based on a very large proportion on the tourism industry, the introduction of the European Digital Certificate is necessary - not to say the necessary - Treaty on the right and proper operation, but, above all, on the opening up of tourism safely to the conditions we all experience. We are a country of tourists and we are experiencing local social conditions, which, both at global level, both for visitors and for nationals and for every citizen, is the security treaty. Opening up tourism requires the formation and enhancement of health safety. So these conditions are being discussed today with this application of the digital certificate. I will not go into the assessments that many colleagues are tempted to make, for how many visitors we will have this year, for how much revenue. Because quite simply, anyone who makes assessments at a time of global crisis, such as the World Tourism Organisation, has submitted here to Greece the previous days, and when we are still moving in uncharted waters, is in danger of being disproved. Therefore, I am strengthening the view that if there is a realistic and feasible objective in our hands, it is to prove all of us, workers, professionals, entrepreneurs, but also politicians as a whole that the message we must send is that we can open tourism safely. This is Greece today, and that is why there are global reports from all over the tourist market. Greece must dominate the image, as the country that is the absolute brand of safe destinations at a global level. We can conquer it. Unfortunately, I was one of the first government actors last year I said that the crisis would be within three years. You heard world tourists say that since 2024 it will be a normal year. Apart from that, however, anyone who travels to Greece must have the feeling of full security, full and safe health shielding the country at the entrance gates, but also at tourist destinations. That is why, as from 3 March, I submitted to the Ministers responsible for tourism as well as to the public domain a package of proposals for the safe opening up of tourism. I have tabled proposals, such as accelerating population vaccination on islands that are tourist destinations, in order to build an important immunity wall in these areas, as well as the vaccination of transport workers and tourism in general. Another proposal was the digital certificate, which was set at European level last year after the cooperation we had with the head of the Greek MEPs, Mr Meimarakis. However, we have all seen that Europe was not ready to accept that perspective at that time. Last year there were no vaccinations. It's just a reason. However, you all know and saw the opportunity of the Prime Minister to speak with his counterparts, but above all, to speak with his own society and as a need and make his personal bet the establishment of the European Digital Certificate. He put it at the top level and linked it to a strong and convincing argument that dug up the resistance and objections that existed in European players. It is a very important step that it is being activated today and it is a positive signal that one of the first countries to activate it is Greece, we are all. That is why I call on you, ladies and gentlemen, today to judge this perspective positively. The European Digital Certificate does not dismiss one of the European Union's basic and fundamental principles, which was the free movement of European citizens. She doesn't make it up to her. I say this on the occasion of the position taken by SYRIZA's health officer earlier. This is certified not only for vaccination and recovery from the virus, but also for diagnostic testing. I'm writing it down. Those who do not have this certificate, then a condition for entering our country are the molecular test of seventy-two hours. From there on, I would like to raise another issue, Minister, and I refer to the obligation of a negative molecular or rapid test for tourists on departure. I believe that there should be the greatest possible preparation on the part of the Greek state, so as not to cause the slightest problem. I am referring, of course, to the readiness and adequacy of health structures on tourist destinations, so that all islands have and carry out tests, facilitating the departure of our visitors. This means that they should have been supplied with consumables and a sufficient number of tests, but also with the necessary staff to issue the results. And that seems to be on the right track. Those who plan their holidays on small islands will have the obligation to carry out a test so that they can leave without a problem for their country. This must be a priority, there must be sufficient preparation and, indeed, seeing what is happening in Germany and England makes this more imperative. Ladies and gentlemen, to close, let me remind you that tourism is the most important priority of our productive economy and cannot even present the country at this time of the global crisis, its tourism identity. There are thousands of businesses and professionals who have obligations and needs, and we expect them to work. The main aim is to prove to all of them that our country is ready and with this certificate, which is being voted today, we are giving a more powerful, a gigantic message that the country is a global tourist destination safely. In that sense, I invite you all to vote for it. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u135	Thank you, Mr. Consola. We are now continuing with the speakers' circle via webex. The first speaker is SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance Mrs. Catherine Notopoulou. Mrs. Notopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u136	Thank you, Mr President. I wonder how many more times we're going to open tourism this year and the government will celebrate for this, without tourists? I wonder how many more times will the government celebrate the great success in tourism when the tourist regions are licensed by tourists? I wonder how many times the members of the Government or the New Democracy Parliamentary Group will wish to resolve all the issues, so that we can be ready in time when tourism is opened, although - and I remind you, ladies and gentlemen - tourism has already been opened? I shall not, of course, ask myself why the Minister for Tourism is missing from today's debate. He is the great absentee from the rebooting of tourism, from saving the world of tourism and, if you like, from preparing for the next day. The fact is that the whole of this government seems never to be serious and not least when it comes to the pillar of our national economy, which contributes to both GDP and employment. We are talking, in particular, about the European Digital Certificate COVID, but not about what the legislative act brings. This, indeed, is part of the solution to the problem, in order to recover the tourist activity even late. I would remind you, however, that this issue has already been raised since last year and if the preparations had been made in good time, it would have been ready. For many months we have been talking at all levels of single protocols on movements between the countries of the European Union. Let me remind you of the decision and suggestion of the TRAN committee with the proposal put forward by Mrs Helena Koundoura and adopted, but also the rest of the European group in SYRIZA, who continued to press the European Commission to bring forward the proposal for a digital green certificate and finally the agreement on the disposal of vaccines for everyone, the care for free diagnostic tests and the protection of personal data. All this, which the Government of New Democracy does not take into account. Let me also remind you that Mr. Mitsotakis has been talking about a vaccination certificate for too many months. We can continue to play various communication games, but we can deal with the world of tourism with respect and dignity, as appropriate to their anguish. You were asking only the vaccinated ones to pass. The difference in certificate is that they will be able to come and those who haven't had time to be vaccinated with negative tests and quite rightly. Let me remind you, too, that last year you accused us of not wanting tourists, because we said they only came with negative tests, when what you managed was to have a season of almost a month, because we had to shut down and mourn too much money in our country. So we are talking today about a certificate, while tourism opened on May 14th or 15th, according to the Prime Minister. We are talking about a certificate when from 1 July the European Union will be in place, but the most serious issues remain unresolved for its effective implementation. The question is to achieve the COVID certificate, achieve the opening and achieve the greening of our country. Unfortunately, the example of Santorini is very concerned. According to local bodies - you know, we have said this too many times - it can only do two hundred with three hundred PCRs a day, while it is estimated that it will take a thousand to a thousand five hundred a day, which cannot be served by the existing structures. So, have you, ladies and gentlemen of the government, taken care of the strengthening of the National Health System? Unfortunately, the answer is negative, but you haven't even taken care of adequacy of diagnostic tests on all tourist destinations, especially the islanders, nor even the popular ones. There seems to be neither the necessary structures nor the laboratories nor the consumables nor the human resources. Again you try to open tourism with one of the result failed algorithm, EVA algorithm. Have you tried last year, failed, and again you bring him over this year and teach us a lesson about what message we have to go through, without taking responsibility and protecting tourism, as you are presenting us to the international media? Tell us what's going to happen? Should tourists return through other destinations and at the cost, which is unbearable for themselves, deterrent? The Greek Government has not guaranteed the prescribing of the tests for the staff, for the islanders, for the workers, of course for tourists, and for other countries such as France, for example, which ensures them free of charge for both its population and tourists. There is also the question of controls at the gates of entry. I don't know if any of you happened to notice what was happening at border stations. There are tails. Our colleagues have told you so. There are tourists at a closed border. Some are forced to stay in their vehicles, with a risk that the test time will expire. We already have mileage lines, and we have last year's defamation, which is repeated this year. The same copy-paste work is played, as if no lessons were learned, as if there were no improvement. A lot of suffering is suffered by tourists and this is an unpleasant message. But that's all it was? From fiasco to fiasco! The Minister of Tourism supported the World Tourism Organisation for Greece's agreements on Greece's moves towards Britain to remove restrictions, stressing that he has sent what he needs in terms of health data. We wonder what it sent beyond the official evidence assessed by the competent bodies and bodies? Why does he choose to mock the world of tourism? Out of green list Greece with the next review on June 28th. What will island destinations do? How will they live? It has not, of course, taken care of either for an extension of the tourist season. One - the government's commitments and announcements are flawed. We're not happy about that. It breaks down the entire tourist system and our national economy will collapse together. Minister, you have now ratified the instrument of legislation on the COVID certificate. But what certificate? Is it worth noting here that since Greece is starting to implement the European COVID Certificate, why is this connection not in the act of legislative content? We're wondering. The term Digital Certificate COVID -19 is used instead of a European Digital Certificate COVID, as it is already on the platform. There are too many issues of selective translation. All right, you tell me, in selective translations, it's based on the entire government account. However, it is not even possible for the duration not to be clearly defined. In fact, duration is an issue that, as we know, has dealt with negotiation in the Council, in the European Parliament. It reached the decision to be annual and this remains unclear in Greek legislation. The provision for any additional categories of data should also be deleted. The European Certificate will set a closed number of personal data without the Member States being able to expand this list. So we appreciate that there are too serious gaps even in the way you are trying to make this institution. Whether it means misinstitution and it should be immediately corrected or there is some fraudulent use of data in the future. On the substance, as long as the country fails to do so, as long as hopes go to the real start of tourism in the near future, the government must at least strengthen the tourism sector, not with crumbs. Because the aid programme of 5% and 2.5% respectively for buses, accommodation, tourist agencies, hotels, is horizontal, thots, which also forgets a number of businesses, business tourist boats and transport services. He's throwing away the enclosures. The fall in cigarettes has reached 80% and 90% and still the government ignores the workers in tourism - foodism, who bring them the working middle ages, making any phenomenon of employers' arbitrariness normal. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, be serious. This summer - I am closing here, Mr President - is the most crucial for tourism and our national economy, so that we can have conditions for recovery the next day. The responsibility for the viability of the Greek businesses lies solely with the Government. The risk of disarmament of tourist businesses is before the gates and workers have been telling you for a very long time 'we have been starving'. You're serious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u137	Thank you. The speaker of the Movement of Change, Mr Ahmet Ilhan, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u138	Thank you, Mr President. Good evening. Ladies and gentlemen, the introduction of the COVID digital certificate -19 which we are debating today is undoubtedly a positive development. After all, since last December, the Change Movement had already proposed its adoption. We are very pleased that you have adopted our proposal, taking initiatives at European level, which have actually opened the way for the final agreement between the Member States. What will be recorded in the digital certificate, as well as the way it is published, has already been adequately analysed by the Special Rapporteur of the Change Movement, colleague Mrs Nadia Giannakopoulou. So I won't extend to the part of the bill or the ratification. It is also important that the digital certificate can also be issued through JEPs. I say this because in many cases the digitisation of certain services leaves completely uncovered citizens, who either have no familiarity with digital tools or for other reasons do not have access to the Internet. But I would like to focus on an issue, which I think is currently about all the Greeks who are directly or indirectly involved in tourism. Unfortunately, memories of last summer's failures are still fresh, and I think we need to take immediate measures to avoid last year's huge cost situation for the country. Greece is a global tourist destination and every year it accepts millions of tourists, not only from Europe, but from all the other states, from all the backs of the earth. Especially from countries such as the United States of America, Russia, the United Kingdom, which is now outside the European Union, China, Israel and Turkey, are very important tourist inputs to Greece. So, respectively, you need to move in a similar direction towards a digital certificate to be issued by these countries, the so-called 'third countries', a corresponding coverage of Greece or through European Union procedures where the government will have to exert pressure to have a corresponding certificate with the validity of the European Certificate or through bilateral relations that your Government will do to seek to establish similar security folds for our citizens and visitors. It's, I think, a matter of survival. Look what's going on in Thrace. With the recent CYA on conditions for entry into the country to limit the dispersion of the CVID Koroniovius -19, issued on 7 June 2021, there are still prohibitions on the entry of Turkish citizens into Greek territory. Thrace and eastern Macedonia draw a very large part of their tourism product from Turkey's side and, in particular, from the passages from the Garden Border Station to Evros. Continuous renewals of prohibitions once again give rise to a difficult season for these regions. Furthermore, the continued prohibition of all non-commercial pleasure boats from Turkey to the ports of Greece increases the problem of the special exclusion of Turkish tourists from the Greek territory, even if they comply with all the health protocols, i.e. either they have completed their vaccination or have carried out tests provided for in these cases and are valid for citizens from other countries outside the European Union. After all, all the hotel owners of Thrace - Prefectures of Evros, Komotini, Xanthi - have sent a joint letter to the Minister of Tourism in order to solve this problem and allow entry to bring Thrace alive in terms of tourism. On the occasion of the recent announcements by the Foreign Ministers of the two countries, Treasurys and Cavousoglou for mutual recognition of vaccines, which is a good thing, it would be appropriate to explore the prospect of lifting the existing bans, of course, on the basis of the safety of the general population and of our health in Greece. With regard to the Nyfan border inspection post in Rhodope, Minister, which is a gate of millions of seasonal tourist crossings every year for the Balkans, for northern Greece and especially for eastern Macedonia and Thrace, I must say that there the state and digital governance have unfortunately drowned in the shallows. The health checks of incomings into Greek territory are carried out under a military tent and an ISO-box, which was given for the hindrance and was converted into an open-air examination for COVID -19. A few days ago, as I had been informed, this structure was not even connected to the Internet, while cars from both sides of the border form mileage lines, creating a crippled picture of digital suffering that is deterring the citizen of Romania and Bulgaria, who chooses to make their holidays in Thrace and eastern Macedonia. We do not have the luxury, Minister, to be treated in Thrace. We are the poorest, on the basis of per capita GDP - you know it - the region of the country. Let us not end up with the major victims of the crisis. So, once again, we invite you to act as long as it's still time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, Mr. Ahmet. Mr Christina Alexopoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u140	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, starting with my speech, I sincerely would like to apologise to Mr Achaias and Mr Alexis Tsipras, who really has to be in a very difficult position whenever the government breaks down its out-of-place forecasts and declarations. I cannot believe he eats so many political errors in such a short time. I cannot believe that a former Prime Minister is not in a position to predict, not the future, but what will happen after just a month. He said the vaccinations would not proceed, but we are among the first in Europe. He said the ESS would collapse, but it didn't collapse. He said that the certificate was not going to be done and that we would "eat a door", but eventually - if I understood correctly - SYRIZA is voting for it today. Two months ago, Mr Tsipras, loyal to the rhetoric of denial and equalisation, zeroing and destruction, described the certificate of vaccination as "an nonsense". Magic expression. Today, anyway, the Greek Parliament, with the ratification of the legislative act, completes the implementation of an initiative by Greece, an initiative by the Greek Prime Minister who was warmly adopted by our partners in the European Union and becomes law in all its Member States and not just. You are not taught by your mistakes, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. You are unable, even after so many years, to conceive the European structure, its mode of operation and its procedures, its strength and its dynamics. You have never believed in European unification. Fortunately, there is a government with deep faith in it, which knows how to fight for its interests, but also to work harmoniously to implement its proposals. The European Digital Certificate COVID is another great success of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis. It is also a great victory for the United Europe towards the convinced anti-Europeans and its followers. It is a substantial and crucial intervention of our country in the European institutions, which will facilitate travel, in particular, in our so important summer season and will enable our tourism and economy to function safely. It is yet another proof that Greece can be the pioneer and creator of developments and not the urgora and pariah, as, unfortunately, the SYRIZA government had classified it. Ladies and gentlemen, in the months that have passed, the whole of mankind has experienced an extremely difficult period, which has tested the limits and tolerances of all of us and has reminded us in the most cruel way how vulnerable we are and how valuable and irreplaceable the good of health is. At the same time, however, our individual and collective power has emerged through unity and cooperation. States around the world, and of course in the European family, have worked closely together, showing solidarity and sympathy to the common invisible enemy. The global research community proved to be powerful, managed to deal with an extremely dangerous virus in the fastest possible time as ever in history. Thanks to the obscene efforts of all and the sacrifices of the citizens who have endured unprecedented restrictions on their daily lives, the exit from the pandemic crisis is now visible and we are all preparing for the next day. In Greece, the national vaccination campaign was a gigantic and successful project of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the relevant ministries and ranked our country into the pioneers, among our European partners. Of course, in this success, the contribution of the Ministry of Digital Governance to organisation and communication with the citizens was catalytic. The performance of our country in the field of vaccinations, and not only, gave it the basis, reason and role in the common European effort to return the economy and society to normal pace. In this context, the adoption of the Greek proposal for the European Digital Certificate COVID is also part of the adoption. It was neither simple nor self-evident to introduce it. Greece has convinced Europe that it was necessary and necessary and that it was finally dealt with, even by our partners who had some reservations at first. With cooperation and mutual intervention and retreat, we currently have a single procedure, a common framework of understanding that will significantly facilitate citizens' movements within the European Union, while protecting their privacy. Greece is, of course, one of the first countries to implement it. How could they, after all, be different? As rapporteur for the proposal, but also as a leading tourist destination, our country has the greatest potential to benefit from speeding up the process of crossing tourists from our borders. This year, we must win the wager of tourism and focus, but without creating cracks in the powerful immunity wall that we have built with so much effort and sacrifice. To this end, the digital certificate will make a decisive contribution, shielding our borders and protecting us and our visitors. In addition, its institutionalisation will enhance the rate of vaccination, as it ensures the easier movement of European citizens. Therefore, it will act as another incentive for vaccination. The digital version, and how the certificate is implemented and the common European digital base ensures the validity and integrity of the data and the protection of those of a personal character. Once again, it is worth saying many congratulations to the leadership of the Ministry of Digital Governance, for this excellent implementation and the initiatives of the Government. After all, throughout governance, the achievements in the area of digitalisation are impressive and are exposed by citizens and institutions whatever they voted two years ago in the national elections, creating a new climate of confidence and security in their dealings with the state. The country has, generally speaking, achieved a real digital leap and while it is true that pandemic has been rapid developments, the intensive digital transformation of the country is undoubtedly the result of the methodical and effective work of the Ministry and its leadership. Ladies and gentlemen, this summer marks our return to much-needed regularity. The Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, with the success of the National Vaccine Campaign, kept the country up to the toughest, making it a point of reference for the rest of Europe. At the same time, Greece is internationally established as a safe health destination. With the introduction of the European Digital Certificate, Europe's borders are being opened safely and our tourism is preparing for a profitable period. At the same time, the reform work in each sector did not stop even once, preparing the country for the post-COVID era. Finally, with the National Recovery and Resilience Plan "Greece 2.0" we increase speed and plan our future again. Day after day, we build a different, optimistic, pioneering Greece. Forgive us the pessimists, the zero-dollarists. We decide to ignore you and take our country forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u141	Thank you, Mrs Alexopoulou. The speaker of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Nektarios Santorinios.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u142	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it seems that I am among the zeros, as Mrs Alexopoulou said. He even talked about political slaps to the former Prime Minister. I think it should be a little more careful in the way it refers to the former Prime Minister. Sadly, however, I am saying this very strongly - the'slayers' of Greek society have eaten them, they have been eaten by Greek tourism. Despite the terrible successes achieved by this government, the result is that we are on the orange list of the Netherlands, Great Britain, in the grey list for the United States of America. The Danish aren't coming. Swedes don't come. Besides, you've done very well. Thank you for what you have done. I read on 21 January 2021 an article by Mr Mitsotakis, published in English on the Euroactiv pan-European website and in German on the Das Morning Briefing website. I read mot à mot: 'Through the introduction throughout the European Union of a commonly agreed and standard digital vaccination certificate...' - digital vaccination certificate, I repeat! - "...we will be able to open again, refreshing tourism and entertainment." This was proposed by Mr Mitsotakis: Digital certificate of vaccination. And, that's nonsense? Is that what we're voting on today? Is that what was approved by the European Union? Obviously it is not, because if this had been voted on today, it would have been an extremely disastrous proposal for tourism, it would have been an extremely disastrous proposal for Greece, because, as we all know today, the levels of vaccination in Greece, but also throughout Europe, are too low, except for all the other problems that have been heard. So what we are voting on is not a proposal, Mitsotakis. What we are voting on is a proposal that talks about vaccination or PCR test or rapid test. So, it's something very different. It includes a much larger range of potential visitors to our country. Let me remind you, of course, that last year we were telling you, the visitors had a seventy-two-hour test. Cyprus did it. You didn't hear us then. The results, of course, have been seen since November, when from last to death in the first phase of the pandemic per population, we have been in first positions. So I heard Mr Mitsotakis talking to us about 'Freedom' and in particular about 'Blue Freedom'. Do you remember when the 'Blue Freedom' was announced? Two days before the opening of the tourism. So soon, so long ago, so long ago you said that we must help our islands, that is, too late and with ideal health personnel. You say about the small islands that their inhabitants have been vaccinated and, indeed, they have been vaccinated and they have been vaccinated. But, ladies and gentlemen, where will tourists go from to the small islands? You know? From the big islands. That's where we have the problem. Did you prioritise the tourism workers, who are mostly workers, who are not in the age groups opened up by vaccination, why are most of them between eighteen and twenty-nine? Mr. Consolas told you before. Obviously, as I said before, the Government does not judge vaccination at this time, it is judged by those who have put us in the orange," in grey and do not let their citizens come to the country. Last night, I was in Faliraki, a well-known tourist area. People cry there. From your successes they're crying! At the same time, you did no support for health and hospitals on the islands. Not only that, but the budgets were also reduced in hospitals, so that hospitals and Kalymnos could not be recruited by oxygens and the municipality. That's what you've achieved. These are your big hits and we were looking for four days and three days to find MS to get people to Kalymnos. Unfortunately, many of them ended up. There was no and there is no - Mr Consolas said so - and Mr Consolas and his good who said so - no preparation for a test, which is prerequisite for visitors returning to their countries and especially to the small islands, but also to the large islands. Do you think in Rhodes there is the possibility of making massive PCR test that they need? We are going to get to the point where we have enclaved tourists, because they will not be able to do the tests to return to their country. So I heard Mr Mitsotakis telling us about the tourism aid programme. First of all, the 800,000 were given 420,000. And what happened? The distribution of cigarettes is horizontal, as Mrs Notopoulou said before, so that small and medium-sized enterprises and small and medium-sized enterprises stay at 5%. However, 2.5% for tourist agencies and even less for buses. It's an injustice for those who bring tourism to our country. Do you know what an annual work unit means that you ask for in the rented rooms? It means four employees for three months. Do you think four employees can be found in the rooms for three months? This is precisely why the Confederation of Owners of Greek Apartments or that the impending has exceeded every limit. At the same time, while you all confess to maritime tourism, no aid has been made to the maritime tourism business. Of course, we also heard about social tourism. But beneficiaries of social tourism come only from OAED. That's not what we told you. We proposed a program for all Greeks. We said 750,000,000 with beneficiaries of all Greeks who can go to any accommodation they want and not to anyone who has a contract with OAED, because that is what is happening now. Also, subsidizing the ticket to the islands through the transport equivalent. Speaking of tourism, and because I was at the Work Centre of Rhodes a little while ago, it is currently around 15% of the hotel staff, not to discuss the other seasonal employees you do not see and for whom the percentage of those hired is much less. The bailout platform has not been opened for the last two months. You'll open it on the 17th of the month, when you vote on the anti-government bill that destroys labour relations. I also hear something very bad, and this is where we have to end up with jokes. Sounds like no employees are hired if they haven't done the vaccine. Take good care. That is unconstitutional, and I think that the government must intervene immediately. Workers will finally pay these self-tests from June 19th and then they will pay them. Finally, it turns out that you are only communication and, indeed, communication towards the media and opposition for the opposition, but to the acute health protection and protection of tourism you are zero.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u143	Thank you, Mr. Santorinio. The speaker of the New Democracy Parliament, Mr Athanasios Ljuta, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u144	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the plenary session today and the debate on this bill have a very important character. The ratification of the Act of Legislative content for the procedure for the issue of the CIVID Digital Certificate -19 comes and demonstrates a number of things: First, the success of our own Prime Minister Mrs Mitsotakis, who was the first to almost at the same time as starting vaccinations in our country, put the need for this certificate at the table in Europe. In short, Europe has been consistent with this proposal, with the scale of the solution that this proposal would have meant for the great benefit that it would produce within European territory. Secondly, this bill underscores the great work of the Ministry of Digital Governance, as well as the forces of the Greek state, which was adapted and developed in the pandemic, modern and digital structures capable of supporting the relationship between the state and the citizen, as well as the relationship between the state and business within the extremely unprecedented and difficult conditions of the koroni pandemic. Thirdly, this bill is coming to show that our Greek Government and Prime Minister have lifted their backs and are carrying out the difficult task of continuing and developing the national economy within the pandemic, but also after it. The CVID -19 digital certificate is the ticket for a free summer and for the operation of our tourist pillar, which is vital to the national economy and recovery. Ladies and gentlemen, Greece is changing. Greece is changing in the right direction because there is this political leadership, this political vision, and these political decisions that make our country, the Greek economy and the state out of habits of the past. Greece is changing because the political leadership and the Prime Minister in particular demonstrate that the citizen, even in the midst of a hard and unprecedented health crisis, can feel safe and the economy can have a chance of recovery. Since March 2020, Greece has been facing the unprecedented pandemic crisis of modern times. The government has stood up and achieved great results. He defended the good of human life and public health. It has worked to shield the ESS and the vaccination process is an example for the whole of Europe. The government stood by and beside the economy, by the work and by entrepreneurship. He worked and works for the next day. The actions of the Recovery Fund are coming to strengthen, but also to transform our national productive model, with the aim of creating income for all, increasing employment and the prosperity of the whole society. Together with all of this, we now have the digital certificate bill in front of us, which is another proof that the New Democracy Government is working and taking care of our economy and our society. First, the Greek Prime Minister put at the table the need for this certificate, namely the certificate that has a dual and crucial objective: on the one hand, to defend the good of public health and, on the other, to support the Greek economy. This is a flagrant decision that has been found to be a symposium of Europe as a whole. This certificate facilitates travel within the European Union. The digital certificate may be issued if the person concerned has completed the vaccination procedure or if the person concerned has been subject to a recent diagnostic check or if the person concerned has been ill in the last few months. This certificate will enable the authorities of each country to confirm that the traveller has either been vaccinated against the coronary or has recently been subjected to a test which was negative or recovered from COVID -19. The aim is to facilitate freedom of movement within the European Union. All of this comes in and makes it aware of the great support given to our national tourism product and thus to our entire economy. Our tourism product is a key pillar of our national economy and the benefits of tourism are directly linked to a wide range of Greek entrepreneurship and national production. It is therefore very clear with this certificate that our tourism is based, that professionals and workers in tourism, as well as all the accompanying and complementary to tourism, are supported. Ladies and gentlemen, I come from Trikalon Prefecture, from a place where tourism is very important for our local development and for the survival of a large part of our local society. It is the town of Trikala, which before the pandemic collected millions of tourists annually. They are the Meteora, in which we meet our imposing religious tourism. It is also our great mountainous volume, on which thematic tourism finds its basis and its full application, and of course it is also the plains of the campus, which, looking at them, are lost in the vast green. As in other tourist regions of Greece, we in Trikala have already understood, since the first moment of the pandemic, the blow that would come as a result of the coronary. For all these people who live from tourism, the CIVID digital certificate -19 is not a simple decision. It is an important and essential solution for all of us. This certificate, together with all the state aid that our Government has designed and provided, comes and proves the size of support and the depth of an important development policy, a development policy that at the heart of the citizens' fundamental support. Ladies and gentlemen, in closing, I would like to stand in particular and emphasise that today, with this bill, society is becoming a community of the grand digital leap, which is nowadays achieved. The digital certificate is proof of the historical digital change that took place, takes place and will take place in our home country on the government of the New Democracy and Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis. The Ministry of Digital Governance has made its main objective of supporting and supporting the relationship between a state-citizen and facilitating economic operation within these unprecedented difficult conditions that we have experienced with the pandemic. Clearly, the pandemic worked as an accelerator, but modernisation has been a pre-election goal from the outset. The pandemic may have worked as an accelerator, but it is the work of the Ministry and the vision of the Prime Minister, who have operated and acted as multipliers for the Greek economy and for the Greek society. The digital jump, which is taking place, is an act of democracy, an act of solidarity with our weak fellow citizen and an act of deep encouragement over our national economy. The Greek society needed to see its future, a hopeful future, which takes distances from a past, which was unable to offer it the opportunity they deserved. So, in the New Democracy Government, we are working on the best and fairest future for all of us, and that future is what we are doing. Even in the most difficult circumstances, this objective is necessary, our duty and our duty to bring it to fruition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, Mr. Liuta. We continue with the Deputy of the New Democracy Mr Dimitrios Vartzopoulos. You have the floor, Mr Vardzopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u146	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is a wish that Europe, unlike last year that has been swept away from the sirens of the tour operators, has listened wisely to the Greek Prime Minister's proposal and has introduced the CIVID digital certificate -19, which will not only facilitate the free movement of natural persons, but also to ensure, as far as possible, the tourist season. It is known that the pillars of the certificate are three: the proof of vaccination, the proof of old hospitality to us with a positive examination of two to nine months and the result of a recent negative examination at the discretion of each State, which has been established to us by the seventy-two-hour PCR. It is known that these pillars differ substantially in terms of both their scientific validity and the reliability of the certificates. Scientificly valid, safe and 95% is, of course, vaccination, as is the old disease. However, as the examinations are considered on the second day after the infection and one as two days before the clinical manifestation of the symptoms, it is clear that the PCR seventy-two hours does not protect against incidents that have been infected in the last five days, before arrival in our country. As far as the reliability of certificates is concerned, this depends entirely on the country of issue. The COVID Digital Certificate will apply from 1 July throughout Europe and in the states associated with it by bilateral agreements. We already have such agreements with twenty-three countries, including, of course, all the areas of mass tourism, such as England, the USA and Russia, and all the Balkans - except Albania so far - which are the major volume of road tourism, especially in Northern Greece. Of course, we have a problem here, as, if we exclude Serbia with a significant rate of vaccination, in the other Western Balkan countries, but even in Bulgaria, things are not right at all. Unfortunately, the reliability of the certificates there is not a European level. On the other hand, we cannot, of course, rely on border controls, because the big tails are destroying the tourist product. The audits, which are rightly carried out there, are only samplebooks and serve mainly to illustrate the situation statistically. To cover these gaps, I had proposed a generalised self-testing system in the first 24 hours after arrival and compulsory registration of the result, in a database with the PLS, either throughout the country or in overweight areas. Even if this does not happen, what is definitely needed for the clinic and for the epidemiological treatment of the incidents is the doctor. It is known that in hotel facilities over fifty rooms, the law requires them to have it compulsory. This should now apply to the entire industry, provided, of course, that the costs for rented rooms and camping are covered, that they are able to participate and that specialisations are lifted for doctors in order to meet the demand. The presence of doctors will be absolutely essential to cover the safe return test, as Mr Consolas said, this safe return test is now being requested from several countries. As far as the safety of workers in tourism is concerned, private sector, self-esteem is concerned. More important, of course, in this case, is vaccination. In view of the recent judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, I think that the compulsory vaccination of the staff of tourist businesses, those of the seven hundred thousands of workers in these have not yet been vaccinated, will not only be beneficial from a health point of view, but also a powerful advertising message abroad. One last request, Minister. After the great success of the 'Blue Freedom' programme in the islands, let us inoculate the peninsulas. To achieve the programme in both Halkidiki and the adjacent two municipalities of Thessaloniki, the Municipality of Volbis and Thermaikos, as well as the three municipalities of Pierre, which accept the maximum part of road tourism. So we'll have, not only a sure and profitable summer, but surely a safe winter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u147	And we thank Mr Varzopoulou. We are completing the list of MPs with the MP of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr Alexandros Aylonite. Here, Mr. Aylonite, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u148	Thank you very much, Mr President. Everything, but in my opinion, is dissatisfied with your communication policy, ladies and gentlemen, of the New Democracy and even the presence of the Prime Minister in this House today. He came to Parliament to tell us that the European Union has listened to him, has taken the matter of the certificate being discussed today, and his legal intervention is here. I think it's too much of an exaggeration. So it's all right, according to the Prime Minister, with the pandemic. Is everything all right with the economy and, in particular, tourism, Minister? If that's the case, good for you! In the morning at a television station, a friend of government, Mr. Kikilis, with what he said, he tried to convince me - I am not general - that I must ask for medical help, either from an ophthalmologist or from an otolaryngologist, because what I saw and what I heard from him has nothing to do with my reality. I remind you that I am a congressman of Corfu and from Corfu I speak to you now. This is because everything is going well in Greece according to Mr Kikilia and the Prime Minister. But they don't see that data abroad. Honestly, Minister, where do we live? We don't see and listen to all of Greece? We are very close to what is happening and what is happening in tourism. Yesterday and yesterday I visited many tourist areas in Corfu and at the same time, I heard about the general situation throughout Greece, as we should all do. The world of tourism, ladies and gentlemen, hurts. One cancellation succeeds the other and our airports are urging the landings of the planes. Believe in your Government and open up its stores and some hotels and is now in a desperate state. The number of tourists is minimal and the beaches and local markets are desert. I'm not rejoicing. It would be really a disgrace to me and to everyone to rejoice. Your seriousness is based only on how you will structure a fantastic reality of virtual 'Blue Freedom', so to justify the wrong, the misguided opening of tourism on May 15th. You insist on a communal orgasm trying to convince the afflicted indigenous people that you are doing all right under the maximum supervision of the Prime Minister and that your choices are based on the science of infectious ones. Shame on what's going on, shame on our society. You should play no more with the Greeks, they are neither foolish nor the rulers of the countries from which we expect tourists. The world community knows our full epidemiological picture. When things and numbers don't work out for you, you blame people, students, young people, that is, individual responsibility. To say the right thing, there is individual responsibility and you hide the fact that you have cultivated the feeling of 'Blue Freedom', of regaining our lives. You do the same with the vaccinations. I hear Mr Kikilia today and the Prime Minister say that there have been six million vaccinations, that is, stings. But they don't say they've been vaccinated with two doses only 24.5% of the population. According to my colleague Mr Blonde, it is 22%. But let's say it's 24.5% of the population. The government is once again creating a wide picture. It sums up the five million vaccinations, which have only one single dose among citizens with two doses of the population. I mean, he's getting mixed up. It totals five million with a single dose of one million. This isn't a numerical alchemy, and in the end, isn't it a communal deception? Do you think we're fools? Let me tell you about the big vaccination center that was launched a week ago in Corfu. It hurts the slippers. And you are giving Mrs Alexopoulou the opportunity to convict and mock the former Prime Minister, who is also a fellow MEP in Achaia. Is that all about SYRIZA? This'small soul' - as the Prime Minister said in the morning, is it a party? So with the digital certificate of the coronary we are debating today, do we all agree that this certificate must be the same as the European certificate? Let's agree. Should this certificate not be incorporated into the European framework, namely, the European CIVID certificate -19? The legislative act that we are going to pass today, however, only relates to an internal procedure at the moment and is not directly linked to the Common European Health Certificate for COVID -19. But the government is deliberately trying to blur water. What I said a moment ago. If we compare the bill - Mr President - to remind you of the Commission's original proposal on 17 March, with the draft adopted by the European Parliament at the end of April and the final draft by the Permanent Representatives Committee on 21 May, it is clear that only a few points were chosen from the Commission's original proposal. Needless to say, the European Parliament and the Committee on Transport and Tourism - the famous TRAN - had commissioned a study and delivered the European strategy for sustainable tourism. That's what the study is called. That is where the argument I have heard from the Members of the New Democracy that what Mr Mitsotakis has proposed is what was adopted by both the Commission and the European Union in general. In other words, in simple terms, the way you are legislating today is distorted in my opinion and poses the risk of other countries following him to convince him that this certificate is the patent of the only one who knows everything - and a doctor is an infectiousist - of Mr Mitsotakis. And so to start a competition of discounts on health standards in order to approach the current of tourists. This is a major risk. Other colleagues have referred to numerous shortcomings. I don't want to talk about it. I just want to remind you of the short time available to me that the European CIVID Certificate -19 is not the achievement of Mitsotakis. What I'm going to say now is true. It's not even based on his proposal. The motion for a Mitsotakis - and Andreas Xanthos said so - was a health card. The Mitsotakis proposal has been rejected at European level. The motion for a Mitsotakis has also been rejected by the conservative parties. However, he came to the House today to think that, in fact, he was the one who proposed and therefore adopted his proposal. The reasons for rejecting the Mitsotakis proposal were - if you remember correctly - the protection of personal data. The passport and the process of issuing passports would mean that we would have personal health data stored forever in an official travel document such as that proposed by Mr. Mitsotakis. I remind them, because since this morning I hear that what it has proposed has been completely legally compatible with the protection of personal data. The alternative to the certificate was born and matured - and this is true - through the European Parliament through the decisive intervention of the Left and other progressive political forces, who, after a hard negotiation, managed to impose on the Commission those conditions and conditions which ensure the rights of the citizens of the European Union and its visitors. As she says - I read it the other day - the former Minister of Tourism and MP there, Mrs Koundoura, the government is distorting reality in Greece and causing misinformation and confusion with the world to think that the COVID certificate -19 is the certificate of vaccination. In fact, even Commissioner Margaritis Spine himself has helped to promote communication throughout this period that the COVID -19 digital certificate is the certificate of vaccination proposed by Mr Mitsotakis, which is not the case. She said that and our rapporteur, Mrs Gara.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u149	Mr. Auslonite, you've already spoken for nine minutes. Hang up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u150	I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. But I'm the last speaker. I humbly apologize, but as long as I've been a Member, it's the second time I've asked you to give me one more minute. SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance stressed from the first moment that the negative test before departure is a critical safety condition for tourists entering the country. At the same time, we have drawn up a grid of proposals focusing on the essential issues for the safe resumption of tourist activity, such as common health protocols, uniform management in all the countries of Europe with a view to implementation in third countries, evaluation and updating of traceability systems, accelerating the vaccination process, extended and repeated diagnostic tests at workplaces, etc. That is why we are called SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance in favour of the European CIVID Certificate -19. Finally, we call on you, Minister, and we call on the government as a whole, not only to re-establish the certificate, but also to take the initiative, such as the ones we have proposed for a long time and which we have been repeating, in order to facilitate the safe movement of citizens, to ensure the health protection of societies and to strengthen tourism. This is necessary so that the antidote to nonsense, which the Prime Minister said this morning, is the seriousness that you lack. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u151	Minister, you have asked for the floor. Mrs Gara, as well as Mr Hetas, have asked for the floor for a second. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u152	Mr President, I would just like to talk about the amendment. The Government cannot accept the amendment tabled by Mera25, as well as irrelevant content, and it is also a ratification of a legislative act. So the amendment tabled cannot be accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u153	Thank you very much. Mrs. Gara, how much time do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u154	Maybe five minutes, Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are now completing a very interesting debate and what we have concluded in this process is that, in particular, the Members of the House did not have the need to refer to proposals, plans and measures to support tourism and health protection, but they have made an effort to convince us that the European certificate was an initiative and a success of Mr Mitsotakis, and obviously to blame, as they are, and with incredible lies and vagueness, SYRIZA does harm the country. In his honor, Minister Pierracakis was especially modest and spoke of a collective effort. Of course, the reality - something that is very important to mention - disproves Mr Mitsotakis once again, no matter how much you are trying to distort her, because Mr Mitsotakis has proposed to the European institutions, as the ladies and gentlemen have said, a digital certificate of vaccination. Immediately after the drafting of the proposal, the President of the European Commission stated that there is a difficulty in taking such a decision because of the privileges that would accompany such a document. There was a corresponding reaction from the President of the European Council, who said that the rapid adoption of such a vaccination certificate would bring great turbulence to Europe. The first and strong rejection of the Mitsotakis proposal was preceded by the Romanian President. The biggest objections were raised by President McCron, who feared that passports would be taken as an indirect attempt to make vaccination compulsory. At the same time, the well-known 'Deutsche Welle' newspaper, in an extensive article, described the proposal as a 'ethical minefield' for Europe, by putting issues of safeguarding personal data, as well as political divisions and exclusions of citizens in Europe. The same concerns are expressed by sensitive data security experts in the magazine ‘POLITICO’. So I say again that it is difficult to distort reality, no matter how hard you try to do in the Greek Parliament. These are few of the references and events at European level, mainly to restore the truth within the Greek Parliament, because this House at last needs and respect. Ladies and gentlemen, we are the ones who have been proposing and defending a single European framework of rules covering all citizens, as is the European certificate in the form that is being discussed today in the European Parliament between the rest of the European countries. We have, however, pointed out that the legislative act has mistakes and distance from the European Union and that you are making hasty and sluggish moves. Mr Pierracakis himself admitted these shortcomings, and he said that we will gradually move on to many changes and additions required by the European certificate. So our points were serious. That is why we accuse you of being particularly interested in communication fissures and in the communication exploitation of the European initiative, since today we have learned, in the same tone, that it was also a proposal from Mr Mitsotakis and he is taking advantage of this initiative from the Recovery Fund. Incidentally, we must also make it clear to the Members of the House that this certificate is not a travel document, nor is it an 'important' document, as many Members have said, but simply facilitated it. It's a digital tool that makes it easier to move. That is why we insist that the resumption of tourism needs a plan and supportive structures. It is your characteristic qualification, of course, to opposition to the opposition. We have seen it and heard it today. Members of the New Democracy, and the Prime Minister himself accused SYRIZA of sabotaging tourism. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I shall end in two minutes. We ask ourselves: Is it true that the submission of proposals, labels from SYRIZA at national and European level, is it sabotage of tourism? Is the labelling of deficits and the identification of problems a sabotage of tourism? Or would you consider it wise to hide the problems under the carpet and create a false idyllic image? Is that why, today, the Prime Minister presented an ideal idyllic picture with false evidence? Alchems with the number of vaccination, false about financial support measures. Does he not know that there have been delays in vaccination, slow rate, limited number of vaccines? Only about 22% are fully vaccinated, far from the national and European objective that we set ourselves. However, Mr Mitsotakis once again blamed the citizens, even those who, he said, did not choose to be vaccinated. Today comes your Secretary-General of Primary Health Care Mr Themistocleus to admit directly that the problem concerns the lack of available doses and appointments. At the same time, we wonder: does the Prime Minister not know that small businesses are excluded from his tourism aid programme? Clearly he knows, because we have also mentioned the complaint of the Greek Business Accommodation Association, which speaks of excitement and that you share money selectively. So you bring a digital facilitation tool, but you do not give an answer to how the thousands of tests will be carried out to tourists on the islands. Do you not know that there is a need to strengthen the primary health care of structures staff, to support tourism as well? These problems are not solved with a digital tool, with the certificate. Mr Mitsotakis also spoke of government's foretaste. What foresight is there any reason? For the deficiencies, delays, the alalum with the vaccination centres, where the army was called upon to engage in the process? What about the lack of information you allowed with your republics spreading conspiracy theories for a 20 million-dollar campaign that no one saw in the media? Of course, we don't know who saw the 20 million! For the use of the mask, for schools, for cucumbers, for masks and parachutes, for means of transport and co-confidence? Not to mention them, they're familiar, we've experienced them. But why not refer to something very important, such as the shortcomings in hospitals in staff, materials, in ICUs, the refusal to take account of the price of tests at first, but also to the statements made by Mr Mitsotakis in the middle of a pandemic, to the privatization of the ERC. Mr Mitsotakis also spoke of difficulties that the government has turned into opportunities. It's true! Obviously, it's true! The government has turned citizens' difficulties into an opportunity for the few, for those few who serve and write bills together, such as the Labour, Environmental and Education Act.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u155	Please, please, my colleague. Don't generalize matters. Speak on the draft law.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u156	I shall conclude, Mr President. I think we have done an interesting and tight process and we are making a summary of this debate. So there are difficulties for workers and the financially weaker ones, an opportunity for the government to abolish the eighth hour, the APR, the strikes, to impose unpaid overtime and flexible work. We'll talk about it next week. I return - and I close - to the digital certificate, reminding us that we have made several proposals on the safe resumption of tourism. We hope that you will overcome your ideological 'difficulty' - in introductory terms - and adopt these proposals even at the moment. We are here collectively with cooperation to help the Greek society and the Greek economy. The CIVID Digital Certificate is neither panacea for health protection nor for the regeneration of tourism. It is a facility - I repeat, because we have heard incredible things today - of moving. It does not, however, encourage either travel or tourism in itself. It does not open the sails of growth and progress, as Mr Mitsotakis said, on his own. It's a tool. It is therefore important to facilitate and serve citizens, but it is necessary to strengthen the National Health System, structures, staff, support for the economy, support for work and tourism. Thank you for the time, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u157	Thank you, too. The Special Buyer of the Greek Solution, Mr. Konstantinos Heitas, and myself, whoever asks for the floor, cannot deny it. I would just like to say about justice that Mrs Gara has actually used too little time in her protology, which is why the Bureau has been overreacting in secondary terms. So here you go, Mr. Heta, have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u158	I shall say a few words, Mr President. "The brief words sugar and no honey," they say. Of course, it took nine minutes for the SYRIZA rapporteur to shout and finally to vote for it. So if you didn't vote, what would you do? That, you know, it's a feature here. SYRIZA votes for what New Democracy brings, but send a small political fight here for our audience. Let's get down to the point. Mr President, I am not going to comment on the Prime Minister's speech, but I am going to stay on a point and move, Mr Georganta, and the statement by the President of the Greek Solution, Mr Velopoulos, because Mr Mitsotakis' statement on the possibility of catering shop owners - bars or restaurants - from autumn onwards does not allow non-vaccinated fellow citizens to enter. That's what they asked us to do! Unbelievable! It is reasonable to say - we have to say this - that they refer to totalitarian and authoritarian regimes. What is that exactly? Of course, Mr Georganta, to see how the communication system works, which I have served for twenty-seven years, and I know very well how you are working and how you are running everything, Mrs Paganis came out yesterday as a government rabbit and said that the invaders will not enter the stores in September. Mr Mitsotakis came today and made that official. But the Prime Minister, Mr President, is lying. Do you know why the Prime Minister is lying? He is lying for a simple reason, because no one can give a businessman the right to decide whether to accept vaccinated or just vaccinated or partially or anything. That's not the business of the businessman. In the same sense, Mr President, I am the businessman who operates autonomously, I do not apply the anti-smoking law, and I say 'Here you smoke, children. We're done or "here only men enter", "Here will only women enter", "Here you will smoke only, nothing else"! I'm sorry, what's that now? The terms of the stores, Mr. Minister, don't the orderly state place them? Isn't the state saying the stores are gonna work like this? So how's Mr. Mitsotakis? So that he doesn't get it back on him again, as you don't get anything on you, you put it all on the infectious. We have not yet clarified who they decide. Are the contagiousists deciding on "opened - close" or "beer-go out"? Is the government deciding? They give their opinions, and you decide? Now what are you doing here? Are you going to ban the entry into our catering shops from September to our inconvenience Greek fellow citizens? Is that your decision or the storekeepers? Because if it's the storekeeper's, it's not from anywhere. Just to say, he can't do anything each one of us likes to do. You can't do that. So, it's your decision, take responsibility and get out and say it. It is politically masculine, not "I can't forbid a storemaster, if he doesn't want to put him out of line." What's this now? Either in a coordinate state there are rules of operation or everyone does what they want! I will also open a shop tomorrow and say "Children, smoke freely." So you forbid me. Why are you forbidding me? Because there's the coordinate state. So that's the point. I'm closing up with one last thing, Mr. President and Mr. Georgioda. After the special infectiousists who have ruled from the place for a year and a half - because they are government than you say - you have now made the decision to govern the restaurants too! We've heard that too! We're going to be governed by restaurants too, probably because you can't do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u159	Thank you, Mr. Heta. Minister, you have the floor now, to close the procedure today.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u160	Mr President, I think a lot of what has been said does not even need a reply. I must, however, conclude by saying that we are not looking for rabbits or beaks, Mr Heta. We are here today to ratify an act of legislation and ratify it by a large majority, because they understand the parties outside the individual objections which can often be justified, that this act of legislation is what we have said since the first time, namely a tool of facilitation. This expression was used precisely in the presentation of this certificate. It is a tool of facilitation which will help the right to free movement of citizens between the countries of the European Union in order to make control procedures easier and more reliable. Of course, at this time in particular, it is clear that this is all necessary to enable our tourism to be helped. Nor does this in itself save tourism, of course, but it certainly creates the preconditions, so that we can also have an appointment in this very important area for the economy of the country. I think we all have to do our self-criticism and see exactly the difficult situation in which it is not the country, but it is the citizens, the professionals. We must really help with our proposals and our attitude so that they are not confused, but at the same time, trying to support them and facilitate their lives at this difficult time. Be sure that each one of us and on the basis of the role that his people have assigned him to play either as government or as Opposition, will be judged and evaluated at the end by this people. However, in these very serious health and economic issues, in this very critical period throughout the world, populism does not fit. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u161	A further discussion on the principle of the articles of the draft law of the Ministry of Digital Governance is hereby declared : « Demonstration of the Act of Legislative Content « Establishment, content and procedure for the adoption of a Digital Certificate COVID -19' ( A'87 ) and more specific safeguards for the protection of personal data ». We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles and the whole of the draft law and the vote will be taken separately. We note that the vote includes the principle of the bill, two articles, the hotel article and the whole. Make sure you have voted for all the articles, the hotel article and the whole. After registering your vote, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u162	Once you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u163	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u164	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Digital Governance : « Setting up of the Legislative Content Act « Establishment, content and procedure of a Digital Certificate COVID -19' ( A'87 ) and more specific safeguards for the protection of personal data » were accepted in principle, on the articles and on the whole of a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u165	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to be responsible for its ratification of the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u166	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-08-S1-commons.u167	With the consent of the House at 18.23 hours the sitting is closed tomorrow 9 June 2021 at 9.00 a.m., on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
