ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, good evening. The meeting's on. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Before entering the debate of the current questions, the President of the meeting will report to the National Remembrance of the Greek Remembrance of the Greeks of Asia Minor by the Turkish state and keep a minute of silence. After a year and specifically September 22, 2022, a century is completed by the greatest calamity suffered by our nation in its history. This disaster had preceded the Asia Minor campaign, a campaign that resulted in more than twenty-five thousand dead and injured soldiers from the Greek side. According to data provided by Eleftherios Venizelos in his memorial to the Paris Peace Conference, in Asia Minor there were one million six hundred and six hundred ninety-four thousand Greeks, Thrace and the Istanbul region of Constantinople, seven hundred thousand, in the area of Banking three hundred and fifty thousand, and in Adana seventy thousand. We are talking about two million eight hundred forty-five thousand Greeks, who accounted for about 20% of the population in the region that prevailed economically. He had failed to maintain his cultural heritage, even though he was a minority in a hostile environment. And this Hellenism suffered the Turkish atrocity! In the newspaper "Eleftheron Stepa" the tragedy of the extermination of Asia Minor Hellenism is reflected. I read: "Every passing day fills the atmosphere of Smyrna and the other Asia Minor cities, where the Kemalian craving encamped, with the breathtaking odor of the death of the devastated Greeks and Armenians and the smoke of the burning houses and shops and even of the entire neighborhoods. On Saturday morning 27 August the terrible message “Kemal is coming!” was heard. Residents rushed to hide, and within a short time the welling of the first horsemen, who bailed to the beach, were heard. These horsemen have been slain in killing a charm of taste! Until Sunday morning no other diversion was noted. But on Sunday morning the symptom of the city was unleashed, inspiring destruction and panic. They were the first naughty studs of Chets and local Turkish men of Izmir returning to their homeland after a long period of absence. This crowd began its destructive work from the remote districts, dedication work, plundering and dishonesty of the virgins. The mountains of the unarmed were attacked first against the shops, which were pierced and merciful. The Cheete, ludicrous, burned everything they couldn't grab. And after they were taken away from the sight of the destruction of the deaf, the naughty were taken toward the Christians, who, enclosed in their houses, endure with anguish and death with anguish." September 1922. Izmir is a bunch of burnt ruins and corpses. The coastlines of Asia Minor are the place of testimony and extermination of hundreds of thousands of Greeks. Mass fires of buildings and people, rapes, executions, torture. Her Hellenism has now disappeared. The American consul at Izmir George Horton writes: "One of the strongest emotions I got with me from Izmir was the feeling of shame, because I belonged to humankind", while Spyros Marquezine writes: "This disaster was the greatest one suffered by Hellenism in his long history. From that time the new history of the nation began. In 1922 it is a station from which the new story begins." In parallel to the departure of Muslims into the religion from the Greek territory, Greece has become more national and religiously homogeneous, but the Great Idea - the main coherent bond of society and the main objective of Greek foreign policy for almost a hundred years - has become an end. With the Treaty of Lausanne and the compulsory exchange of populations, the Hellenism of Asia Minor and Eastern Thrace was rooted out of its long-lasting homeland. Hundreds of thousands of Greek and Armenian Christians were exterminated and the rest came as refugees, without their properties, in Greece. The almost bankrupt Greek state had to house and care for this huge population, this population that had a profound impact on every aspect of our social, political and cultural life. But the conservative and closed rural societies of the locals have been in contact with new values and practices, many of which have been unable to accept. An example of this is the negative picture that they had created for the women of refugees as "different morals", the result of the beliefs of the time, as many of them had arrived in Greece without their husband, father or brother who had lost their lives in the war. But even more generally, the difference in lifestyle, in many cases even in the language, made the local Greeks negatively towards the newcomers, without realizing, at least, what these people suffered and in what psychological state they were. In our islands, the Aegean islands, it was better in terms of their reception and cohabitation. In Mytilini, for example, who accepted many refugees, in a small 30 - square - foot - [30 sm] smash house there were many families, where three generations, grandparents, parents, children, were housed. When cold nights were not smoked by hearts, that is, smokers, you understood that refugees were staying there. The locals, however, helped them in every way until they were uprooted, so that in the 1950 ’ s they could dominate the Mytilini market with their business, labour and honesty. Ladies and gentlemen, at times the question arises: 'May there be a new beginning, a new beginning between the two neighbouring peoples?' It is a fact that people want reconciliation and coexistence. But neighbouring country's political leaderships, with few exceptions, find ways to retreat reconciliation. It was tried eight years after 1922, in 1930, Venizelos and Kemal, with the so-called "Greek Turkish friendship", which was still still still still alive. Without respect for the rules of international law and the principles of good neighbourliness, a relationship of confidence cannot be built as a precondition for the safety and well-being of our peoples. And our neighbouring country must understand that without respect for international conventions and human rights principles, it cannot inspire respect and trust, particularly in the European Community. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek Parliament unanimously decided on 24 September 1998 to establish 14 September as the day for the national memory of the Greeks of Asia Minor by the Turkish state. So today we honour this day, mentioning the sad events of September 1922, which ended the long history of the Greeks on the Ionian Earth. We must consider, without dissatisfaction, the facts because memory means respect for our historical truth and traditions, so that these behaviours can be denounced in the future. Because as Seferis says: 'If we erase a part of the past it is like erasing a corresponding part of the future'. Thank you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Please now keep a minute's silence in the memory of the fighters. [[In this respect, I should like to draw your attention to the fact that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks ……]] Their memory is eternity.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS In writing, the Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs shall inform the House of the timely questions to be discussed, which are well known. The first question of the first cycle of SYRIZA MP Rethymnon - Progressive Alliance Mr. Andreas Xanthos will be discussed with the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The EHS will be abolished if the government puts staff on holiday - immediate suspension of application of Law 4820/2021". The Minister for Health will answer Mr Athanasios Plearis. Mr. Xanthos, you have the floor to develop your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, welcome to duties and parliamentary control. This question was submitted just before the entry into force of the law and several days have already passed. The picture of the health system from too many hospitals, especially the province, is an image of a serious malfunction in the middle of the fourth epidemic wave. We're in a critical phase for the pandemic. The country is not doing well in indicators and epidemiological data. We are, in the rolling measurements of the incidence increase, second after England over the last few weeks and according to the ECDC, we are second in terms of mortality, namely the number of deaths per million population, after Bulgaria. The sense of society - and this is now reflected in polls - is that the ESS is going unpreparedly to this new wave. 66% of the citizens in a recent survey I read have this picture. And there is now an intervention, which is being made in the name of the protection of public health, which is unfair and inconsistent in relation to the benefit expected and the danger that it is coming to face, but of course it is also a disgrace to the resilience of the health system at the most critical stage. I had the opportunity these days to visit several hospitals in the province. There are large hospitals, university hospitals, which this decision has put on a job suspension, deprivation of wages and insurance contributions, and compulsory holidays for over six - seven thousand workers in the health system, has created terrible side effects. At the University Hospital in Larissa - I tell you, for example - five anaesthetics and eight surgery nurses have left, and the whole surgical sector has actually paralysed. Although you have been making a softer-management effort by saying that with a single dose one can return to the system, at the same time announcing the essence of the alleged intervention that is protection of health and the patient, because we know that there is no immunity with one dose, yet I think you should now go to a move to dismantle the crisis. It's a very bad climate in hospitals. Vaccines feel that they are particularly unfair at this time because for some of them their regular permits scheduled for September have been suspended and on shifts and on guards of the non-vaccinated who left. There is a terrible upheaval today in the ESS and I think this is the worst thing at the top of the fourth epidemic wave in which we are approaching. The question is, then, one: Considering all this, will you try to go to a move to evacuate the crisis, so that we can sit together the political system, the parties, the trade unions, the scientific bodies to find a commonly agreed path and a short timetable, with a view to universal sanitary vaccination, which is obviously necessary? We have said that it is a moral and ethical obligation for patients to be vaccinated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u5	Mr Minister, I should first like to reply directly to what you are saying. The government does not consider any other way than the one we have already legislated, which is to enable those who are vaccinated to return from the first day to their work. It is not a problem with regard to what you said, or with regard to what you said, because the original law stated that whoever was vaccinated by the end of August with the first dose remained in his work to make the second dose, so in fact this weight does not have immunity at the time, but it is a reward for one who wants to be vaccinated, as they remained in the system that were vaccinated by the end of August. Anyone who is vaccinated from now on will return to the system and indeed from the first few days, as we have seen, there are people who are going to be vaccinated. What is the government's position from the start? The Government's position in a debate with the Bioethics Committee, but also with the decisions of the Council of State, is that the enforceability of vaccination will only exist in cases where the ratio and balance between individual selection and public health are considered to be high towards public health. From your point of view, it is clear - I mean personally from you - that nurses and medical staff must be vaccinated and indeed the measure of compulsoryity has had a positive sign in this direction, since when the law on compulsoryity was passed we were in numbers around 80% to 85% depending on the category, and at the moment we have 94%, 95% vaccinated world in the National Health System. We therefore call on the people who have been suspended - and we fully respect them, because these people who came out on the suspension supported the system - to go to vaccination as they insist on international directives, otherwise they themselves with their choice - are not punishing themselves - are putting themselves in a non-qualified state of ability to provide their services, because we believe that as the doctor who is on an oncological site is entitled to not be vaccinated, so the patient on the oncology section, who if he gets COVID will find himself in a very difficult situation, has the right to be vaccinated by the doctor who cares for him. I now come to the part of how the gaps are covered. I shall reply in detail to my dentistry, but I would like to give you an initial picture. It is certainly a difficult decision, especially when people are on parole, even though it is much less than we had calculated - our forecasts were for over ten thousand people, and at the moment we are talking about five thousand four hundred in the National Health System, which is around sixty thousand, are still pending applications for authorisations, which are being examined and obviously those which are not renewed, automatically, will create a problem and must either be vaccinated or suspended. So we chose four ways - to tell them now and then analyse them in my denture - to fill out the gaps: Firstly, we have enabled the first vaccine to return to work. He's returning people and taking over work. Secondly, there is indeed a pressure for those who are vaccinated because they had to be suspended so that the gaps could be covered, so, of course, this world, which is being pushed much more by the choice of their colleagues, we are ready to be able to support them whenever necessary, because they have turned from their permissions. Thirdly, an amendment was adopted for three months to cover the posts. You will surely tell me that at least in medical staff it is very difficult - and in specialties such as anesthesiologists, for example - to find people and be able to follow all needs. And fourthly, there is the mobility that is being undertaken with regard to the Directors of the U.S., in order that gaps are found for the individual to go to cover them. Some arrhythmias are certainly being created - I want to be honest - but these arrhythmias are manageable and we think that as long as the days pass and people are being vaccinated and when the quarterly contracts are activated, even these malfunctions, where they have been, will be covered.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u6	Mr. Xanthos, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u7	Well, Minister, I think you have underestimated the situation in the health system tragically and dangerously. First of all, you do not respect workers who have been suspended. What you're doing is social cruelty. To deprive people who have put back on the management of the crisis, and so far eighteen months, consciously, have provided services to the health system and patients and to deprive them, in the name of protecting their own and the patients, of the right to work, of their right to work is a burden, an unreasonable measure, and that is why Europe has little application. The majority of European countries have not gone to such choices and even to like us, like Portugal, currently have 86% vaccination coverage with one dose and 78% with two doses, full vaccination, without going to such a type of fatal and cruel measures. So you leave people unarmed over a period of great difficulty and most of them are low wages. Secondly, do not think that consensus is being blackmailed. Evidently some people under pressure and insecurity and uncertainty about their work, their income, their family survival, the last days they have gone and been vaccinated. Know that this is not conscious compliance. It's not about persuasive people. We'll have new doses of souvenirs. You don't produce consents that way. You are firing a constant tension, in my view. Obviously, the gaps with the quarterly contracts cannot be covered, there will be no response. Evidently, the gaps cannot be covered by the work of the remaining doctors, nurses and other workers. In fact, your insistence on this matter, in addition to a culture of political authoritarianism, which you have - and the government, but also your own, I am sure - has the element of social analgesia and has the element - which is the most dangerous one for me - of an attempt to create gaps and shortcomings in the health system which will then, as soon as possible, be covered by the private sector. We see such a plan behind the effort to tackle - I mean at this stage - the purchase of services by individuals, private workshops, who will provide services to the ESS, etc. So I think this is quite serious, really. The health system has been very disorganised, and because of its covid - marketing, i.e. because of the pandemic focus, it left all the rest of the morbidity, abandoned the care of patients with severe and life-threatening illnesses. They went back to surgery, tests, appointments to regular medical services. This is a terrible impact on the functioning of the health system. The world has been financially burdened, those at least having a moderate potential for income, to fill in the gaps created by the health system. I think that you are going in this way to give the charismatic shot, and I think that neither the health workers nor the patients will facilitate you, nor of course the progressive political forces, which will try to oppose a strong front in the defence of public health.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr. Xanthi. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u9	Minister, with absolute openness, there are things in our programme that we believe and, as far as I am at least a minister, you will not be surprised by me. All that you say, which the Prime Minister has announced about any partnerships and anything else, will be done in a context that will come organised by us and are issues that are in our programme and which we have defended and defended. There would therefore be no reason, as you are trying to imply, to try to create gaps. Something we support and tell you that our programme is there and we want to implement it, we will support it clearly and we will argue with it because it needs to be done. How do you explain, however, that we are trying to make artificial gaps and at the same time within the one week that I am Minister, and the notice of the thirty-four places for the permanent coverage of doctors in hospitals has been signed? In addition to the quarters that came to cover the gaps, in addition to the possibilities which exist where direct contracts are created with private individuals only for the duration of the suspension, Mr Minister, we have come here and said of a proclamation with five hundred and thirty-four doctors - I will answer, because your colleague, Mr Triantafylides, later on about what is going on with the other invitations - which shows that in a clear way we are interested in being a strong staffed ESS. There are problems - and you know them better - with the declarations of willingness to take up positions, especially on some points that were available from permanent staff and we are considering how there will also be incentives to cover this issue as well. So the political will of this government is to be strong. He's made the recruitments he needs. It has subsidiary staff, which will also be recruited to have permanent posts. The suspension measure has been carried out, if you wish, to condemn it, but you cannot connect it to something that we ourselves tell you that, when we decide and implement it, we will bring it, just as it is in our programme. With regard to the gaps that are created, I told you the four ways in which we will be able to cover them. I hope that the procedures for permanent posts will also proceed. From there on, we think that the government is trying and persuading. You said about the numbers in Portugal, but I'm telling you it's real. For example, doctors outside the system may not be convinced, as are the private doctors who went to vaccinate, but in the ‘bridge’ between individual decision and public health, our decision towards public health was made. Minister, we went to the smallest possible part that had an agreement. To what? Medical care personnel and those serving in structures hosting persons who are vulnerable. There are other countries - because you have mentioned - that have extended the compulsory requirement to other categories which we are currently saying are looking at, but in no case are they in our intentions, as the Prime Minister himself said at the press conference. We will monitor the phenomenon if and if necessary, but it is not intentional. As far as medical and nursing staff are concerned, however - you said about the moral factor - there cannot be people in the system who have a choice to be more vulnerable and also to be more likely risks for those who enter hospitals. Over there, we need to protect the patients. And because you've been referring to numbers in the last two days, in the last two days, we have double the test than we had last weekends. Again, as you've seen the numbers right now, we're at a warning of the fourth wave curve and we're definitely waiting for the opening of the schools and we're ready to deal with whatever tension pandemic will have because of the opening of the schools. We therefore have full monitoring of the pandemic. The National Health System is trying to secure it as long as possible. We've reached a number that's satisfactory, 95% of medical and nursing staff. The gaps are trying to fill them from within and with possibilities that will be provided. It is, however, a political decision by the government that it will not negotiate the question of whether the person working in the National Health System, in private clinics, will privatize as a doctor, will not be vaccinated. Here is a decision which we have explained, supported and we will support.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u10	Thank you very much. We enter the second with number 1017/6-9-2021 in the first cycle of the Member of Parliament of the Boeotian Movement of Change Mr.Georgios Mulkiotis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The society of Boeotia requires clear answers about what is to come with the General Hospital of Thevas". The Minister for Health will answer that, too, Mr. Plearis. Mr. Mulkiotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, a few days after your appointment comes the turn of this timely question, it has been postponed and has not been discussed at the Hospital of Thebes. You know that Thebes Hospital, according to and through a joint ministerial decision, is interconnected with the Hospital of Livade. The total hospital power, according to the organization, is set in a hundred six beds of which six belong to the CEFI. The medical service is an address, structured in fields, pathological, surgical, laboratory, in which specialities, units, special units, and cross-sectoral sections and other departments operate. The shortages at Thebes Hospital in medical and nursing staff have repeatedly made their function problematic, endangering the adequate and quality care of patients systematically monitored or on-call. At the same time, however, crucial questions are being raised about the government's intentions for the future of the Thebes Hospital, whatever intentions and questions were reinforced by the Prime Minister's statements on the implementation of deferred intervention decisions in hospitals that do not have their legal autonomy. The Prime Minister said attributes, among other things, that 'we cannot have three hospitals within a radius of 20 to 30 kilometres'. Such a case is the hospital units in Boeotia, as was mentioned in a press release, which I will submit in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, George Mulkiotis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Also, Minister, in my timely question, on 2049/19-7-2021, to the then Deputy Minister of Health on the situation at the Hospital of Livada, he referred to the Minister's second-guess: 'The aim is to ensure that hospitals, structures - do not see it as building - operate in complementarly within a synergy framework. That is why we talked about hospitals - nodes and hospitals - radius, where they will be interconnected, complete services, staff adequacy and effective provision of health services." Minister, continuing with the pandemic, the citizens expected the government to take steps to strengthen the health system by serving hospitals, human resources and supply of the necessary equipment. The shortages in staff, but also the non-permanent solutions given at times, are known to have caused disharmony and created a problem in the proper functioning of the Hospital of Thebes. The real needs of the area with geographical and population criteria only require the strengthening of this hospital. Now the Prime Minister's statements and as many times as they have been made by the Deputy Minister last time in my current question raise questions. I have two questions to ask, and I conclude, Mr President. What is specifically the government's planning for the structure and functioning of the General Hospital of Thebes, first. And secondly, will the existing form be maintained or is there any other restructuring plan under way? And if there is another plan, what are the specific changes to be made and there has been some consultation on them? Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u12	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u13	Mr Colleague, I will answer very frankly to you and you can understand that on the ten days I am Minister I cannot have a full picture of all the plans. But for the particular hospital you tell me, according to the note I have from the service, but also the actions we have done, which I will tell you immediately, it will neither be degraded nor abolished. In particular, at the moment we are talking, there have been procedures since 2020 and six permanent doctors were appointed. Six permanent doctors have been appointed. Similarly, there are two surgical and pathology specialists and two more medical practitioners who were to fill a position of anesthetics and pathology. There are other staff appointed, three permanent employees, and thirty - nine other nursing and other specialties that they need. This has all been done in the immediate past. And by the notice I referred to earlier of the five hundred and thirty-four people fully satisfied the hospital's request for the positions that we were asked for and were called for by a curator's position of internal pathology or cardiology or anesthesiology or pneumonology for the ITH, anesthesiology curator II and pediatrician. As you can see when the government's intention is now that we are talking about making positions in order to serve the hospital you are rightly asking, you see that our intentions are in no way degraded or abolished. That's the picture. We will support the recruitments that will become the hospital in order to be able to serve its work. From there and beyond what you have referred to, that is to say, in more general planning, there is a more general planning that will be developed by the Deputy Minister - today I am for all the questions why the responsibilities had not come out - which has to do with how to strengthen the hospitals as a whole. In this context, we will see where there will be stronger hospitals and where hospitals will be subsidiary. It does not, however, have anything to do with what we are now discussing. What we are discussing is that we support the structure that you are saying and, indeed, you have the opportunity with the question you have asked and now is to report to you all three posts requested by the hospital and a notice has been issued in order to cover them. I wish they were covered. Because you, too, know it very well, the problem is not the notice that comes out. The problem is whether there is a desire, in particular, for medical staff to go to cover these positions. We believe that these positions will be covered and any problem that arises in this hospital will have been resolved and will normally operate with permanent staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Mulkiotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I understand your answer from the outset that Thebes Hospital continues to operate and has nothing to do with its operation and its structure any design is following. I want you to verify that I get it right. Indeed, there were some recruitments that were made and I'm glad you're saying that the rest of the posts of doctors have been announced because Thebes Hospital, you know, it's not a simple hospital that's happening because Thebes with Livadia is at a nearby distance, covering some things. It's not someone. We're talking about three Ritson structures, Oinophilus, Thebes. We're talking about industrial zone and region. The largest volume of industries is in our region. We're talking about the camp. We are talking about an existing unregulated Roma structure. We're talking about olive groves. In other words, issues, obligations that arise that cannot be covered differently. It is a keyboard as a hospital in the area that is so that it can provide any of its services. Furthermore, there is a great deal of confusion about the Prime Minister's interview and what the Deputy Minister said last time in Parliament - in relation to the distances. It's not the major distance that saves well. Where there are specific other features we have to take them into account. You should know, now that we're talking, that twenty-six existing beds are completely covered due to COVID. And what is the hospital doing now in collaboration with the lieutenant? It's moving on and it's creating new beds. He can't cover it. In other words, there are vital issues that we need to see and we need to take all this into account. I, first of all, do not want to say that I unreservedly accept it. But what I want you to make clear in your dentistry and make sure that the structure will continue to exist regardless of any other kind of planning the government has on the subject of the ERC. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u16	Minister, you have the floor for dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u17	Obviously, what you say on the matter of distances is true. What do we say now? In the sanitary maps to be formed, how all the structures will be developed, which will also be one of the issues that will concern the Deputy Minister, it will obviously be possible to consider criteria that have to do with distance, but the distance is not the only criterion. There may be special conditions per region - which I am not ready to tell you right now - which justify the existence of structures, even at the distances that exist. So what I want to tell you is that, when any debate by the government opens, although it is chosen with the Deputy, there will be absolutely no surprise and any move will be made in full consultation. With the data so far and with the information I have from the service - because I have read the service note to you - there is no question of deterioration, merging or abolishing this hospital. This is the note that the agency has given me. From there on, when this debate takes place, the issues will be raised and can be discussed. But I want to make something clear, because, as you can see, it is not just in words, it is also in intentions. You refer to a hospital, where - and you have already said - the gaps have been covered, and we have now satisfied and issued a statement on exactly what the hospital has asked for, for the gaps that we have been asked to cover. So, you see that in the government's intentions it is to strengthen this hospital and be able to carry out its work for the citizen and for the public good of health. Any other broader conversation will take place with the actors, with society. There will be no surprise. But in the government's basic intentions - and this was said in the Prime Minister's interview - it is that hospitals are better able to operate where there is a need to strengthen services or to have a stronger central structure. And yes, there is also in our minds - and this will come and will be discussed, when it is - where there will be a need for public-private partnerships. I would like to reply to that, because many people say that we are going to surprise the amendment that has been tabled. We're not surprised. The amendment that came to the gaps concerned only suspensions. Any partnerships, synergies will come to bring them in a clear way, because it is something we believe in. So on the basis of the information I have, I tell you that this structure is being strengthened at the moment, so that it can do its job.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, the fourth question under number 1015/1-9-2021 in the first cycle of MP B2' Western Athens, Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Health, on the subject: 'Suspension of work by the vaccinated doctor, K. Catechia', is not discussed because of a blockade by the Member. Also, the following topical questions are not discussed after consultation: The fifth, under number 1023/6-9-2021, is a topical question from the President of Heraklion of the Change Movement, Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: 'To remove the unfavourable treatment of agricultural parcels from the legacy of rural rehabilitation of Miraiat refugees'. The ninth, under number 1026/6-9-2021, is a topical question of the SYRIZA MP Pella - Progressive Alliance Mr.Theodoras Jackis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Manufacture of the Almopea (Kales) dam". The tenth under number 1028/6-9-2021 topical question by Hercules Hercules of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Questions on the Northern Axis of Crete". The twelfth under number 1029/6-9-2021 is a topical question of the second question of the Member of the Heraklion Parliament of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Participation of PAE A.O. Kavala 1965 in the Super League 2 championship.’ The fourteenth, with number 1031/6-9-2021, is a topical question of the second question of the Member of the Hercules of the Change Movement, Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou, to the Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: 'Protection and support of households and especially vulnerable persons, following the wave of appreciations of basic consumer goods'. Also, the second question under number 8108/19-7-2021 of the Reference Cycle - Questions by SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance Mr.Theophilos Xanthopoulou to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Continued degradation and subsistence of Drama Hospital to medical and nursing staff, government reluctance to receive substantial support, assigning to the establishment of contractors, merger plans and abolition of hospital units and clinics". Finally, the third question with number 7067/4-2021 question of the cycle of petitions - Questions by the Member of the SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Charalambou Mamoulakis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on "Questions about the financing and the cost of the tolls of the Northern Axis Crete Road". We are now entering the discussion of the fourth under number 1022/6-9-2021, a topical question from Mr Panagiotis Skourikos on the subject: 'In a tragic situation, the Lavrio Health Centre'. The Minister for Health will answer that, too, Mr. Plearis. Mr. Darkness has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u19	The question is about the - indeed - tragic situation in which the Lavrio Health Centre is situated. Since the first day the pandemic came into our lives and especially since March 2020 I have drawn the attention of your Ministry with multiple topical and written questions about the problems of the operation of East Attica health centers, leading to a complete abandonment of the day when the New Democracy took over the government. I come back this time for the Lavrio Health Centre, which, according to the information provided to us by the competent bodies of your Ministry in recent months has been changed by a health centre - a model in a health centre that has been operating. In particular, the provision of health services is completely degraded because doctors are now unable to provide minimum health coverage. One of the reasons is that, for a year now, a coordinator has not been appointed, with the result that arrhythmias and problems are created. Also, radiological has been damaged for four months, with the result that the people of Laureate - where possible - are going to other health centres. There are still specialities for which the term of office of doctors has expired - an ophthalmologist, urologist, endocrinologist - and the organic position of the pediatrician has not been covered, because of special problems, and therefore, in practice, there is no cardiologist. Let us also mention that there is a lack of general practitioners and that the function of the health centre is based on qualified persons, since the positions of doctors who left have not been met. This has led to a great difficulty in drawing up the programme on newspapers and problems in regular appointments. At the same time, the regional hospitals of Legraine and Bromopussi do not work, particularly in the summer period when the number of inhabitants is multiplying. Finally, according to complaints from the local residents at the "KONSTANTINOS PRIFITIS" Rehabilitation Center in Keratea, the admission ticket to general doctors and specialties has been returned. In view of this, is the Minister asking: What does the Ministry of Health's political leadership intend to do so that the Lavrio Health Centre will return to proper functioning? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u20	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u21	Mr Colleagues, I should like to give you some of the information you have mentioned that this health centre is not working, on the contrary it works very intensively. This centre serves, as you know better than I do, a population of over twenty-five thousand and operates nine medicines. Let's go see, with the information we have, what served this health centre in the eight-month period of January - August of this year, 2021. It served a total of twenty - three thousand, two hundred eighty - eighty - eighties, of which fourteen thousand seventy - three were regular, and nine thousand - seven urgent ones. The laboratory tests carried out during this period were fifty - four thousand four hundred fifty - six, and at that time the emergency clinic served five thousand eighty - five hundred urgent, twenty - four cases a day. So, we realise that this health centre cannot function, because on the contrary, the tests it has done and the volume it has served are too much, but too great. What's going on now? There is no crisis pending in the ESS Medical Selection Board for the specialities of doctors provided for in the Health Center Organisation. As far as ancillary staff are concerned, medical posts have been requested and there is a specific table. They were approved by the Ministry of Health. For whom they were covered, i.e. who were found covering and who have not yet been covered, there was no interest. A post has been sent to cover a vacant organic position of general medical expertise, and there are empty organic positions of various medical specialties, which, as I am aware of the service, are scheduled to be issued by the end of this year. Regarding doctors' specialties - because it refers to your question - ophthalmology, urology, endocrinology and cardiology are not provided for in the organization of the centre organic positions and there is a detailed situation with the table of people who serve. It is therefore a centre that operates. It works very intensively. Some attempts have already been made and gaps have been covered and I have informed you of the remaining gaps - the agency has informed me - and when they intend to be covered too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u22	Mr. Darkness, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you are new to the post and I understand that you do not know the issues throughout the width and much more in the background. So your service gave you some numbers, which you mention, and which say nothing. So here's the evidence, Minister, that I don't have services. I have them through the health center and the residents. I'm a resident of Eastern Attica - I live in Anavyssos - and I'm served by this health center. I would therefore inform you that, while a coordinator was appointed, he has been seconded to Gia for a month, Minister. Look at it. So let me give you the information that's inside the health center: The contracts of thirteen subsidiary doctors, a microbiologist, three dentists, one orthopedic, two pediatricians, one surgeon, two general doctors, one psychiatrist, two gynecologists. The Ministry of Health has taken no care to renew these contracts and if these contracts are not renewed, the health centre will close down, put a lock on them. There has also been no vaccination of Laurentians, because, as you know, there has to be a doctor and a nurse who is missing and has not become vaccines. Regional hospitals do not work at all. Finally, your Government abolished the SYRIZA government contract that provided that the Kerate Health Center - it is a municipality of Lavrio and Keratea - will operate without payment for the visit. On SYRIZA citizens were not obliged to pay. Now with New Democracy, they put their hand in the pocket. And you know, in Laureate, they don't live shipowners. The last thing you've done is get the dentistry equipment from the Lavrio Health Center and go to another center, another city. What are you doing? You have the professions to fight with each other, the vaccinated and the invasive, the citizens of a city with another that takes a whole dental equipment and take him elsewhere. Is there such an inability to create a doctor's office and a dentistry where it needs to be? Minister, in the summer of the 19th we handed you to health centers in Eastern Attica, which operated almost perfectly. The SYRIZA government received, say, the Calibian Health Center with four doctors and delivered it to you with twenty - three or twenty - four. We received it with eight doctors and delivered it with twenty-four. Kadriditio Health Center closed at two o'clock at noon. We handed it over with twenty - six doctors and operated the regional medical offices, and so was Lavrio. You are serving - I am sorry to say this - a slap plan for the ESS to bring health to the hands of private interests. However, your plans, Mr Minister, I think that there will be plans to stay, because soon Greek citizens will give the rule of the country to a progressive government that has the support of the public health system as the crown of its policy. Care for health is a public good and all Greeks deserve it, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u25	I would like to start with the latter, which is more general. Obviously, health is a public good and all Greeks deserve it. The obligation that the state has is to provide this good. This good can also be provided through the National Health System, it can also be provided through the primary care you mentioned, such as health centers, through the EEA National Health Services Agency contributing to private providers. You, in fact, increased your examinations, which were to be done to private providers. We don't have any ideas. We must provide health to the citizen. And what the citizen will ask us is whether he can have the points in order to have the good of health. As a Ministry, we will use all the best measures available to upgrade the ESS to operate health centres. Of course, they can also be synergies with private individuals where necessary. But you can't come here and say that we want to deceive it and it doesn't work, when I come and tell you that he's done fifty-four thousand diagnostic tests in a nine-month period, when I come and I tell you he's examined twenty-three thousand incidents, when I tell you he's examined nine thousand emergency cases...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u26	How many has he done...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u27	Don't interrupt, Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u28	If this centre, in other words, remained operational, as you want to present it, how could it in nine months have such an intensive activity?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u29	Come to Lavrio and tell them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u30	Look, we can't question self-evidently. I understand that you are a Member of the region, and I certainly respect the role of the Member.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u31	Not for that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u32	It has a picture always true and better in its region than a person who is not in this region can have. I respect that, and I understand the concern. I would like to say, however, that what you are presenting is inconsistent with what I am telling you now, when all these tests have been carried out that you cannot dispute that they have been done, when I say that twenty-four thousand people have been served and gone to the health center, when I tell you that nine thousand incidents have been examined, the five thousand medical emergency workers, twenty-four every day at that health center. So, whatever there is, I told you what the design is. And I accept what you're saying. I don't take it as a reproach but as a reality. On ten days I can't have the full picture, so I'm going to rely on the service notes. So I say to you that there is also a design to cover some existing places, but at the moment the health centre is operating properly and has served in this eight-month period too many thousands of people.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Minister. We enter the seventh under the number 1025/6-9-2021 topical question by SYRIZA MP for the second cycle - the Progressive Alliance Mr. Andreas Michaelides to the Minister of Health on the subject: "Sufficient and lack of a special plan for island hospitals". And this timely question will be answered by the Minister for Health, Mr. Ploris. Mr. Michaelides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr President. With the tolerance of the President and by way of derogation from the parliamentary order, Mr Minister, you will allow me to make a point as a doctor in your previous position, in the question of my colleague. The absolute figures say nothing at all, because we do not know the needs that this health centre is required to cover. You're telling us that these tests were carried out and these visits. But we do not know what the demand was, and if all the demand was met. Mr President, as far as my question is concerned, Mr Minister, on a number of our islands there are significant shortages of medical personnel, but also at the level of nurses and other staff, deficiencies which have a direct impact on the provision of health services to the citizens, which are of particular importance in the present pandemic situation. Despite announcements, Minister, new recruitments of permanent and qualified personnel have not been seen by the citizens in health establishments, especially the islanders. Our country, with the peculiarity of islands, with the fragmented health structures and with the heavy burden during the tourist season, requires the preparation and implementation of specialized, island policy, I would say in the field of health, and it is clear that such a policy has no such policy. I am going to address a number of shortcomings which we have recorded in various hospitals of small and medium-sized islands in the island country. The Hospital of Lemnos lacks a basic specialty in this nephrologer and is covered by rotation with other colleagues who arrive there and temporarily meet the needs. Samos lacks ophthalmologist and ORILA. Ikaria has a lack of anesthesiologist, with whatever problems this may create for surgical specialties. He has the CT scanner out of use. The pathologist has even been seconded a few days ago to another area, which has caused the municipal council to react by suspending municipal work as a protest. The Hospital of Chios is demarcated by medical staff with the retirement of colleagues and at the same time without any new intake of a doctor. The Rhodes Hospital after the removal of an anaesthetic, unfortunately is now canceling many hundreds of surgeries that are unable to serve due to a reduced capacity of support from a colleague anesthesiologist. I must point out, Minister, the lack of specialists in many hospitals in the country and, of course, in the island country which is causing serious malfunctions in many hospital clinics. As I would also like to point out, of course, the lack of agricultural doctors with many notices as you know very well from agricultural doctors who are barren. We know that the attendance of medical staff, in particular, is reduced. You have already referred to the reluctance which indeed exists, Mr President. We have pointed out the need for new incentives to encourage health to meet needs in island and difficult areas. We expect answers to these requests.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u35	Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u36	Let me start by answering this report that you made in the previous question. The absolute figures for themselves obviously do not say anything, but one cannot say that there is something that does all of this. If this action is sufficient, it is another debate. But you can't say he's down, having done fifty-four thousand diagnostic tests, and while he's visited it twenty-four thousand people. If needs are more than we see, but don't say it's down. I now come to your question which, in fact, is very important because it refers more generally to the problem with our hospitals on the islands and the question of staffing. To what you have referred to, there is already a notice of the positions that you have now described. It is forty-one doctor's overall position for our island hospitals, including - because you mentioned them - is the specialty of the Nephetology Director for Lemnos, which you said, is the specialty of Orila for Agios Panteleimon Samos and is the specialty of anesthetics for Rhodes. So within the week we were now getting the call. A good repetition has been made on the basis of the corrections given to us by the U.S. and the hospitals. The big bet, however, is to be covered, because the notices have come out and there is virtually no political leadership that has not tried to cover up and make notices for doctors. We took her out, and we're trying to cover it up. Here, then, there will also be a combination with local government, to see what motives can be given to cover them. Now, in particular, I have a series of briefings that I think you will know about how the entire time that we have been discussing has come to over seventy hundred and seventy-six qualified doctors in the ESS, six qualified doctors in other units and forty-six posts in which the nineteen were covered. Eleven of them have been barren, two are under signatures and fourteen have been notified to the service. It comes out of a series of other notices for a thousand and sixteen people, nine hundred ten different specialties and four thousand for which I will answer in detail why there is a question from your colleague. The bet is to be able to cover the seats. Notices have been made. Especially in the position of doctors, where there is no willingness, we hope with the notice that has now come out of a willingness. But we don't live in it. We will look at measures with both local government and regions in order to create more incentives in the areas you mentioned, so that the positions can be met.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Minister. Here, Mr. Michaelides, you have the floor for your denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u38	I wonder, Minister - and I would like you to clarify this in your speech - whether you are referring to posts of permanent skilled personnel. Minister, frankly, your health policy, as the citizens see it, and as we have repeatedly pointed out, is far from being really supportive of the public health system. In addition to your unacceptable decision to suspend work on unvaccinated sanitary diseases, we have not heard a coherent and well-established plan to revise the National Health System, i.e. investing in the National Health System. This is another opportunity, a perfectly understandable tactic, bearing in mind your general views on the public health system. We point out once again that our assessment is that you consider the present juncture of the pandemic transient and therefore resort occasionally to this public health system, in other words provisionally assigning responsibility for dealing with it, ready the next day to return to your favorite tactics for privatization. You are so impatient that, from now on, in the midst of your pandemic, your first legislative initiative as Minister of Health, you have opened the door wide open to the granting of critical areas of the public health system to private interests with the pretext of pandemic. But you did not tell us, Minister, something specific about the incentives you will introduce to attract new scientists to the public health system. We are talking about incentives that allow you the financial environment of the country after our exit from the Memorandums in 2018 to implement, stimulus to economic, administrative, scientific and health scientists, such as what we have submitted to the public speech, costly even for several months. Do you intend to incorporate the health workers into the heavy and unhealthy professions, as you have promised - and we are absolutely certain that we will address it in our possible and upcoming governance - or will you remain committed to your neoliberal policy and the health sector by granting private neo-algal strands - to filleting, as you have already done with granting to contractors of storage and cleaning to hospitals? We have no delusion, Minister. Your policy of origin both - over and above - years of the country's governance by the New Democracy is fully declaring your intentions to support the structures of the public health system.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u39	Thank you very much. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u40	Obviously, you have ruled and ruled, you know the problems that exist. Because of the notices that were not covered by what did you give incentives to cover these posts? These gaps are now under discussion. We don't discuss gaps that were created all of a sudden and we're coming to cover. One call is in March 2019, one thousand sixteen places for all of Greece. What did you do to give incentives to cover them? We now have - because you have said about permanent positions - the following: a thousand two hundred nine are declarations 6K/2020, which are permanent posts - the nine hundred ten and four thousand, which are now being implemented for permanent posts and are the five hundred thirty-four that I mentioned to you, which are for the recruitment of doctors with specific positions, just as you have described most, where there are vacant posts. Therefore, for our part, we are doing our utmost to get the notices to cover these positions. We're going to the motives, for which, yes, I'm not ready to tell you right now the motives that exist. I haven't been informed. I'll be briefed. There are discussions and we will see how there will be incentives so that we do not just remain in the tendering stage but that the positions are covered. Of the previous ones I told you on the forty-six, the nineteen positions were met. So the dynamics are created, but perhaps not to the extent that we want. There will also be incentives to cover them. In the general debate you say, the general debate is an ideological controversy which we have.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u41	Obviously.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u42	That's clear, too. Let me tell you that there are also nice discussions in the sense that they are reflecting exactly the arguments we come to say in society. We come here and say that our position is that we want a National Health System strong, we want a primary - which is being examined, because it is also a strong reform to be done - and yes, we say that this is not the private health sector that exists, that the private sector can help and especially where there are gaps, if it can provide, a synergy. I think that the COVID crisis has shown that there may be such synergies, because for the first time we have experienced private clinics giving beds, entering the national on-call system, on-calling, giving beds to ICUs. The EKEB actually had a single health region, which was all over Greece, with all the structures that existed. You have a concept in which we fully disagree, but it also demonstrates the ideological controversy that we are discussing, that the good of health should only be given by the public sector. You consider that the National Health System is only state-owned. We say that with its public character it can also use weapons of the private sector. Which one are they going? We'll talk about it and we'll put it down. But don't confuse them. And here I'm sorry, but I'm not wrong, because I'm telling you clearly what the Ministry's intentions are and how all of this can be built on bases, we can call them reform, you can tell them what you want. But do not confuse the last week's amendment. That was clear to cover the suspensions. We'll have an honest controversy here. We do not need to cause anything when it is something we believe and we will come here to support it and put our arguments on each side.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u43	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Christos Bukoros, with his letter of 10 September 2021 to the President of Parliament, calls for he to be absent from Greece from Tuesday 14 September to Saturday 18 September of this year for personal reasons. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u44	The House therefore approved the requested permission. We continue the debate with the eleventh question under number 1027/6-9-2021 of the Second Circuit of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr Alexandros (Alekos) Triantafylides to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Here is the permanentization of the four thousand OAED workers, as well as of all contractors and the subsidiary of all specialties in the ESS - the armour of the ESS before being late". And in this timely question, the Minister for Health will answer Mr Athanasios Ploris. Mr. Triantafylides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, since 6 April 2020 and my party, but I, too, have started a course where I am sympathetic to this staff who actually gives examples of writing, solidarity and altruism to Greek society. They are the sixteen thousand auxiliary doctors and ancillary staff, nurses, paramedicals, administrative, technical staff, who put their heads in the dorva and fight, clash every day with the coronary to save as many human souls as possible. I would like two - three points to raise before we actually get into it. It is the seventh timely question. First of all, give an answer, Minister. Auxiliary doctors told me today on the occasion of the question, asked the Minister, on 31-10-2021, that their contract expires. It's over a thousand auxiliary doctors. Will it be renewed, extended until they are permanently simulated, as you know and know, based on WTO data, that there are forty thousand gaps in the National Health System and that they are only sixteen thousand contract staff and subsidiary? Also, in addition to the doctors, who end their term of office or contract, they end on October 31st, nurses, paramedical staff, managers and technicians, three thousand. They've taken last October an extension. Will their contract be extended? Forty-five days is over. They have families, they have kids, they want to make their planning. Say it. Don't keep it a secret. And so many, three thousand, ends their contract in February. We have, of course, two thousand who have now been hired at the pandemic time, November, December, January, for one plus one year. And these people live this job insecurity. I am also coming to an issue that you announced, but I have the information that is now in my hands. I don't know, I don't want to trial intentions, you're new to this post. But it is not a challenge - and I ask the President - Thessaloniki, which in November 2020 lost hundreds of thousands of souls, which the Prime Minister in this Chamber said: "In Thessaloniki we were wrong" and yesterday at the press conference, how did you dare as a political leadership, your predecessors and the current eighteen beds, which did not pay the Greek public but paid for "Greece 2021-200 years", the four systemic banks and the TEDDIE, have been ready since 17 March and have not been working? I have the document sent to you by the 3rd Ministry of Foreign Affairs and it tells you on the basis of the standards of the Central Health Council, which should be what the positions should be: that is, the required number of servants - qualified doctors, not qualified, not diligents, but qualified doctors - 12, nomedicants - Fifty-five, technicians - three and others. How did you do this and delay five and a half months and leave empty? Of course I can understand you, but the same thing you're gonna do everywhere? Will you take from other doctors and nurses, or will you close other clinics, to other hospitals in Thessaloniki, so that you can take them and operate the eighteen IF beds? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I want to hear a specific date. When will these eighteen beds acquire such staff that meets the specifications and can the eighteen beds be active? In a statement by Mr. Kapravellos, who you know him, man specifically stated: "Intensive units are assigned by six specialties. So far any intensive position has been declared, covered. One cannot claim that there are no doctors. Is that paperwork? Are the institutional anomalies that delay it?". Give a solution, because Thessaloniki listens to you and tries to understand exactly what the design is. In my dentistry, I'm going to speak specifically about the four thousand.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u46	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr President. To start with the issue that was out of question, but it is very important that what you refer to with the eighteen beds of "Papanikolaou". The eighteen IF beds, which have been donated since February, worked during the pandemic with the existing staff, transported. I will answer everything, because we have already taken concrete action. These beds have always worked with the existing staff who, when needed by the hospital, were transported in order to work. At the moment we are talking, after the consultation that took place, it has always been functional and beds with the existing staff. We must agree, however, that it is not reasonable to operate only with the existing staff and be pressed and that we must go to resolve the issue. So I announce that, when the five hundred and thirty-four seats that came out, ten seats were taken for the ITH of the clinics of the "Papanikolaou", as requested by the hospital. It's a good repetition. Ten places the hospital asked for us. We were out for curators. He's asked us for a special. I tell you what the "Papanikolaou" asked for and right now in the notice that came out, we cover the gap so that these eighteen beds that are functional with the existing staff, if necessary, can also acquire permanent staff to be permanently developed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u48	When will that be, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u49	I'm telling you, I took off the proclamation. Now, knowing in particular times and how the notice is being implemented, I cannot tell you. But what the ministry had to do with it did. The notice's out. From there, I've given orders specifically for this, but for everything to move, because everywhere there are issues that need to be covered...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u50	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u51	Mr. Triantafylides, don't interrupt. You'll tell your dentist.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u52	Mr. Triantafylide, I have not interrupted you. So I say to you that we have made the announcement in a week's time. We talked directly to "Papanikolaou", he told us that the ten posts we took off did not cover them as they were and we made a good repetition to be the ten exactly as the hospital asks for them to be with the Ministry of the Environment, to cover the posts. However, these beds were functional with the existing staff. If the "Papanikolaou" were needed at any time, it would make transfers from existing staff to function as they operated throughout the pandemic. So what's the reality? Eighteen beds have always been functional. Whenever the hospital wanted, it could be with the existing staff. However, since this is not the normal operation, the communication from the Ministry also came out to cover these positions. So, until the seats are filled, the existing staff will be operational. I want to believe that the procedures will be initiated quickly, and that is the Ministry's mandate to complete the procedures of the contract notice quickly and to have permanent staff in order to be fully developed, without needing any assistance from the other staff. I will agree with you that it is for the benefit of the citizens of Thessaloniki to have permanently another eighteen beds ready not only for the needs of COVID. I'll answer for the four thousand in my dentistry. What we need to understand is that on the subject of beds - and you know most of them, especially those who are of medical expertise - it always subordinated. We talked about five hundred beds, essentially and always there were 30 and forty and fifty waitings. They've been developed and we have a thousand 300 beds, which are functional. At the moment that we are talking about it, there has been a separation in CIVID and NO COVID and, as necessary, added to the system. For the first time - and you know it better as doctors - we experience a situation where there are IF beds without needing waiting. This was the Prime Minister's commitment that the eighteenths of the "Papanikolaou" will definitely enter the system. They're operational with the existing staff. We also resolve the question of recruiting the particulars that the hospital needs to be permanently developed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u53	Thank you very much. Mr. Triantafylides, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u54	Not to repeat it, but it's very essential. In forty-five days the term of office of these doctors and nurses and there should be a concrete, clear and unequivocal response to what is going to happen. I'll be waiting for her, Minister. I now come to the whole question. Of course, here you are judging whether or not what the predecessor political leadership has said commits you, and that is what I expect from the new Minister, to see whether his care will probably be from an obsessed neoliberal for PPPs and private-public-public-private partnerships, contract-private nurses, contract-privatists, contract-cleaners, etc. Or if you really have these people in mind, since you said we should go out on the balconies and applaud them. The Prime Minister at his meeting with the health officers on November 24, 2020, said: “It is a commitment that we made to all nurses who were hired during this crisis and extends to all doctors who are currently working in intensive treatment units with fixed-term contracts.” Did you do it? You did it. Mr. Kontozamanis and the previous political leadership have brought Article 67 to Law 4764 which has given the opportunity directly, without a call, without anything. You will ask me, 'We have done well'. I had said the same thing to Mr. Contozamani. Welcome to them after seven, eight, nine months after we have to strengthen and further shield the National Health System. But why don't you do it for the four thousand doctors, do you not do it for the sixteen thousand? Now I'm talking to the law firm. We have the decision of the seventh Chamber of the European Court of Justice on 11 February, which says that we now have misuse of the three-month, six-month, applications, etc. These people have entered S.H.I.E.L.D. They've been working since 2016 and 2017. They're fighting. The gaps are forty thousand. These are sixteen thousand. Why don't you legalize them? All the parties in this House have been placed. Even Members sent you letters to Mr Kikilia and then told him "converted their contracts in indefinite time". Don't start saying names. It's in honor of them. They are Members of the New Democracy. The propathidis Vice-President of the Parliament, Nikitas Kaklamanis, said "convert their contracts in indefinite time". Will you do it? Because there is no excuse anymore. There's no fig sheet. It's clear here. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You need to put yourself on this matter. On this subject I shall refer, as I like, to the Minutes. 'They speak in their ears'. Which one? "The leadership of the Ministry is in discussions with the relevant ministries in order to ensure the best possible solution. The four thousand OAED workers are necessary in the National Health System." Mr Contozamanis had answered my first question. "The needs are enormous. No one's left over from the National Health System. We need them. The need and safeguarding of these positions is indeed vital to these health structures." He said Mr. Kontozamanis: "You, at SYRIZA, bequeathed one problem for us. We have given a solution for a year and we are trying to find a lasting solution to this issue."
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u55	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u56	You spoke of permanent solutions. You say that there must be permanent solutions in the National Health System. It supplemented 'yes, there must be lasting solutions'. Do you have the same view, Mr. Plearis? Tell people to know what they'll do. Draw a sail in his life. Organize his personal and family life. Don't play any more with the insecurity of these people. People who put their heads in the dorva and play their own crowns - letters every day are not entitled to such treatment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u57	Mr. Triantafylide, you must finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u58	Finally, the House should try to restore its prestige to this world, which, from some point on, sees that it hears promises, promises, promises. Substantial, deed, zero. Make the reality. And there you will see that the whole House will confess, the whole House will consent. There are commitments from the political leaders.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u59	Mr. Triantafylides, you've reached six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u60	I shall conclude, Mr President. The leader of my own party, Alexis Tsipras talked about permanentization of all health personnel. When we were in government, we couldn't do that. Five left, one hired. Now we're out of this narrow corset of the Memorandum commitments. Do the act and you will see that the House will support this choice. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u62	As you know, in order to serve the positions of the National Health System, notices must be issued. At the moment, then, the notice of all four thousand of them is being prepared for nursing staff and ninety - ten posts, which are other specialties. I hope that immediately - I cannot tell you exactly how much time - they will be prepared as this specific notice with the five hundred and thirty-four doctors, who have just arrived immediately, so that these notices will come out. Here is an issue, which you will probably have heard, and with the Council of State what position it is to take with regard to the additional moleculosis that can be present because of the presence. It is something that we are monitoring and as a favoured state we see with particular attention, because all the notices were to have the exact extra moleculosis for those who were in the system. But we are also watching how the case-law of the Council of State, which has a first decision and because of seriousness, has been referred back to plenary. Clearly, until these procedures are completed, there is no risk to this particular world. I will be ready in the next few days to tell you exactly what will happen and what renews we intend to do and consider what time it will be. But there is a combination - that is the main thinking of the Ministry - depending on the notices they come out, that there should be no gap in the system at all. And yes, I will agree with you - and I hope that - these will be the crises that will exist, that those who have been in the system over the last two years should have a premium more than someone else who was out of the system. But that, as you can see, because it has too few points and that was the will in relation to the case law that will be formed by the Council of State, what I can commit to the National Representation is that the notices will go ahead and come out and immediately, in the next period, the political decision will also be there - so that it is not in ignorance, as you say, these people and can count - on how renewables are going to be and what time it will be.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u63	A premium will only be granted for those who were in the system in the two years? Those who were in 2016 and 2017?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u64	There will be a premium for those who were in the system...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u65	Thank you very much, Minister. Please, your question is over.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u66	Mr President, let the Minister hear what he says to be written in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u67	The suggestion you will then make to the Bureau on tertiary matters is not provided for. There's no tritology now. We enter the first question under number 7208/11-6-2021 of the SYRIZA MP's cycle of petitions and questions - Progressive Alliance Mr. Konstantinos Markos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The Government must publish the mortality rates in all intensive care units of the country." And this question will be answered by the Minister for Health, Mr Athanasios Ploris. Here, Mr Marcus, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u68	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, because we had the conversation earlier with Mr Triantafylides, I cannot say that, despite all our understanding of you being young at the Ministry, you do not start well. And watch it for the next day of your term of office. You said the ITH at the "Papanikolaou" Hospital was operating with transfer, distractions and just now you're making notices. You yourself, speaking here on 7 September in the House, said on this occasion: "The beds are not in operation at this time because there is no waiting in Thessaloniki and with the existing staff can function whenever they need them. I asked the Deputy Minister himself to make the plan work." Of course it is not possible to find an excuse for the preparedness because it is known that the patients of the METH from Thessaloniki are transferred to Kozani and to Serres. And now you told Mr. Triantafylides that the ITH was working.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u69	Whenever I had to...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u70	Be careful, Minister. This is the first and last time you make this slip lie before the House. Don't repeat it. I now come to the topical and urgent question. We made it on July 16th. We come three months later and you know, the same thing we submitted from 1-2-2021 and 11-6-2021 and we come September to get an answer. That is not Parliament's respect, because we have not received an answer so far, which I hope we will get. We have to agree on something to make a better climate. That ICUs are a cornerstone in the structure of a public health system, especially after the pandemic invasion. On 8 May 2020, a year and a half ago, by decision of the Minister for Health, a five-member scientific committee was set up to design new intensive care units under Professor Cotanidou. The Committee's work was to suggest in terms of growth. We don't have any briefings. All we can see is that the government's final state has tried to deal with the problem with communal artifacts and emblematic solutions, which you said three minutes ago. You baptized as new IT hallway beds with portable beds and respirators and do not meet the requirements that exist at all. And not only that, you do the worst. You bring staff who has no training in the intensive care unit, and that is criminal. The result of this policy is mortality, which I hope you will welcome at the moment to present to us. A few months ago you asked for the head of the Starfleet Hospital, because death was close to 100%. What about the other hospitals? Because the statistics are coming to the Ministry immediately the other day and you have them, you ask: What is the mortality rate in every COVID unit in the country and why? While the increased mortality rates were well known to the relevant authorities - the Ministry, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Cotanidis Commission - why was no initiative to tackle the problem taken? Second. Mr. Gerapetritis said that the more units we have the more dead we have. Did Mrs Kotanidou ignore this data as materially competent when she said on 10 November 2020: ‘Very low mortality rate in the Greek NGO, better than those of developed European states’? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u71	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u72	Mr Colleague, because you said that I was lying in the Greek Parliament, I will not take it as your position to wish you to lie about what I said, but as a failure to understand what I said to my colleague and I will explain why. I told you that these ITHs worked with the existing staff when we needed them and were at any time operational with the existing staff, if necessary, moving me. That's how they worked during the pandemic. They didn't work with permanent staff. So last week the issue had been raised and I came here there were empty ITH beds in the Regional Unit of Thessaloniki and could be a crossroad. The "Papanikolaou" didn't have one. With internal movements it could be covered. So what did I do, Mr. Marcus? On the one hand I have spoken with the Chief of Staff and, at the moment, if you are aware, some of these beds have been developed with the existing staff and I have also received the notice to be permanent staff, with a week of attendance at this post. I didn't say they were always functional. It was functional when he needed and I think Mr. Triantafylides realized that that's what I meant. Obviously, there was a problem and it didn't work ten days ago. But, at any time, the hospital by transferring the existing staff could fill this gap. There were beds, they were functional. How did they work in the pandemic? Didn't it work with the existing staff? Did anyone say those beds weren't functional? And with the proclamation we want them to be fully developed, not only for the duration of the pandemic, but also for the aftermath of the pandemic. Because we're well talking about the ICU beds, I'm gonna come to what you're asking. You cannot come and tell all this to this government, when you had thirty, forty and fifty people waiting without a pandemic. This was the state of government SYRIZA, anticipation of the ITH beds of thirty, forty and fifty persons in the five hundred forty beds that existed. Why didn't you develop ICU beds? And we, in months' time, literally more than doubled these beds and put the whole system in place. And there was no patient who didn't receive hospitalization in a IF bed who he needed, with so many people in the IF beds. So, because you're coming here and swinging our finger, are you proud that as president of the C.E.S.Y.S.C., you see that forty-forty Clinics are on the SYRIZA government? Are you proud that thirty and forty people didn't enter IF beds without any pandemic? And you are abdicating us that today we are talking about a thousand, three hundred, that is a margin that we are discussing. He even induced us to enter synergies with the private sector and with the military hospitals. Thanks, however, to this plan that all went to EKEB and EKEB sent the incidents, the country managed at the most critical moment to have a bed for every citizen. So, first, you can make your self-criticism that you delivered under half the IF beds of the ones we have today. To make your self-criticism that they were waiting for citizens and calling MPs to find a bed for ICUs because you just didn't have a ICU bed. You cannot abandon us for this and in the midst of a pandemic we have been able to deal with it. And wherever there was a problem with the staff to be permanent, we come and solve it. The beds, however, existed and were functional. I will come to mortality to talk to you later, because you are also doing an alchemy that actually offends the staff. You said we put in untrained staff. So, in the notices that come out of the anesthetics for the ICUs - you're better than me on these as a doctor - can you find them? You're making the call, and whoever has the evidence comes in. You say it's untrained. Did you say the staff are untrained, where are they in the ITH beds? What you say we applaud and perpetuate them, you come and say people are untrained? At least withdraw that. Those who are at the moment in the Greek ID tell the Greek patient that they are safe. You said that "you are putting untrained staff in the IT beds". I mean, you're coming to say it's the responsibility of a person who dies. That is what you say from the national Parliament, Mr Papoutsis! You're saying it's the staff that's inside that we want to applaud because people are dying! Because if the staff are untrained and they are criminal from the state, it means that this staff is doing a criminal act.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u73	Minister, you will continue later. Thank you very much. Mr Marcus, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u74	Minister, you seem to have no fundamental empathy with the object of the ministry you have undertaken. You know, you don't have any statistics on electronics like Mr. Pierracakis. You have to deal with health issues in which the cheap trade, which you have served now, is unacceptable! Because at the moment you claimed that we insult the nurses, who were collected from every clinic unrelated to the ICU, when we say people don't have the training they need to respond to. You insult the good of health you when the necessary education doesn't provide it and you're trying to communicate and say we brought in staff And you didn't just do it to the nurses, Mr. Pleari. Ask the DEOs. You've done it to doctors too. You called urologists, you got psychiatrists to go defend the COVID to say you were doing something. This is an insult to the function of doctors, nurses and the responsibility you've taken. I would also like to say something personal, since you said 'as president of the ERCF'. Yeah, I'm proud. Look at your paperwork. You will see that the medical rules that exist so that a patient enters an intensive care facility - which were not there, and they also helped those who did not have experience in this critical phase - were made by the ERCF during my term of office. Look for them! So, to come a little bit to the demands, it is a total failure in the pandemic. Proof is your presence at this time in this chair when the previous leadership was released "plus lax" by the Ministry. Otherwise, you wouldn't be the Minister, Mr. Pleari, now. I hope that the same will not happen again. I now come to some of the facts of why you failed, which I will keep to your attention. And I will give you information - and I shall put it to you in the Minutes - on valid analyses, which say how many vaccinations we have, how many elderly people, who are the marker of death, what tests and epidemiological surveillance are, and what exaggerated mortality is, and indeed, compared to countries that have been the same as us since 1 May, the largest lockdown in Europe. Let's see the vaccinations in the elderly. I have related tables I'm going to submit. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The first proves the clear failure for the elderly. All other countries have ensured their vaccination in over eighty. The Greek Government has failed to inoculate three out of ten. Vaccines as a whole - they are in the next table - are not particularly encouraging for the country, which exceeds only Sweden, while the partially vaccinated ones are in the last place. The mortality index, which means how many die per case, is where a critical unit, assesses both the disease and the services and everything - proves that Greece was higher than all other states. He was, in fact, greater than Sweden's one who we accuse of leaving its population. So what does it show us? That you failed to prevent the virus from killing, maintaining mortality rates at Italian levels, which we know what went through. The excess mortality, which means how many die from unrelated reasons more than they died, therefore, that you have transformed hospitals into monothematics, because you have no primary health care so that patients die from other causes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u75	Please complete. You've reached five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u76	I'll finish. The statistics therefore say that the increase in mortality last year is compared to the 2015-2019 higher, which also reaches 25%. So they die of other causes. Epidemiological surveillance never took place. I won't get tired, I won't go in. As you can see, Mr President, I am going beyond it. So you have no success marker. At the beginning of this summer, the Prime Minister, in serving communication rather than substance, told the German 'BILD' that we are ending this summer. We're waiting for which summer we'll be done. Finally, I would like to say something that you mentioned in the previous question about numbers, especially Mr Xanthos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u77	Mr. Marcus, you've been in six minutes. And we've got too many more time-consuming things. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u78	Thirty seconds, Mr. President. You have provided some information about the unvaccinated and unvaccinated health personnel whose effort is evolving. Tell us, Minister. Do you have data on the private sector on the same data? If you have them, present them to us. Clinically, there are huge hospitals in private. How many are invasive health workers? And how is your program developing in this area? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u79	Thank you. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u80	I'm starting with the last one. Obviously also in private clinics, Mr Papoutsis, there were all the procedures and sanctions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u81	Rates, percentages!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u82	I haven't had enough of it to tell you percentages now. Let me ask. You wanted me to have them now? Is that in your question? You're here asking anything. The Minister is about to answer a question. You remember now! I'm telling you, the program was fully implemented in private clinics. We extended it to private doctors too. In fact, private structures do not have the power to return to the National Health System here with one vaccination. And already, all private clinics are working. Did you see a private clinic not working? They work with the problems they will have, obviously, because people have been in there too, but clinics are working. Because you have been very fond of the figures since the pandemic began - and the mortality index has been specific - in Greece a thousand thirty-sixty-seven people have died with today's figures - you can see it - per million people since the pandemic began, in Belgium two thousand hundred eighty-five, in Italy two thousand-five-three, in the United Kingdom one thousand ninety-four, in the United States two thousand thirty-four, in Spain one thousand eighty-three-three, in France, one thousand seven hundred-sixty-five, in Sweden, one thousand four hundred four hundred forty-one. Of these countries and many others, our homeland is better. Does that satisfy us? Every Greek who dies is pain. But you come here saying evidence and I tell you that someone would rather deal with the management of the pandemic in Greece than be in Belgium, Italy, the United States, the United Kingdom, Spain and France. And that is the indicator that you cannot question why the pandemic is overall and how each country has moved. And the elements of the IMs are, respectively, the elements of the average that exist. And you come in and put in a situation because as a doctor you know very well, the mortality index is a scientific term. The part of the ITH per hospital in order to be able to examine what is going on should have evidence of what world has entered in, at what age, if it entered according to the protocols you referred to earlier. Because if he got to a point where he didn't have to enter, he'll automatically show a better indicator while he's in a situation that was vulnerable, he'll show another indicator. So all this information is available for both the U.S. and the U.S. is processed by a hospital. But I can't understand what you're trying to say here. I tell you the marker of mortality as a whole, which ranks our country to be better than many other countries. This mortality rate is overall and those who have died in an intensive care unit and those who are outside. And I don't think you've been slandering, as you've done, and the doctors because we've heard them from SYRIZA colleagues say how many people die inside and out by blaming the doctor directly that he had to intubate and not intubate, without telling the scientific reality that there are people who shouldn't be intubated because he can't be intubated. You're now coming here to talk about hospitals. Aren't you interested in what kind of world has come in, the average age? If there are persons over eighty and other ICUs who are forty-five years old, will the mortality index not be affected? So just for communication reasons to go and show, and show, and slander fellow doctors who are in ICUs and hospitals in particular? I would therefore inform you that per OHIM the mortality index is within the European term and is not above the European term. On the contrary, it is towards the bottom of the European term.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u83	Who is it?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u84	Make an application for documents to give you from the hospitals.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u85	Why don't you tell us?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u86	So here I told you about the morbidity index how you were moving, how you asked, and in all your data, you didn't find any time to say about this index and you choose specific dates. Isn't pandemic a whole thing? Aren't we going to see it in total? Do you want to choose a single day when Greece could have had a bad rate of mortality index? So the whole is what bothers you because you see the other countries how they go. And I sincerely repeat what you are saying. And to understand it, we suddenly needed ITH beds of five hundred, which were above and you didn't have to go to the thousands of three hundred. Shouldn't we get personal? How would these IF beds work? So I don't understand in the thought you've developed that the staff are unskilled and you directly blame your staff - and I expect to see if SYRIZA accepts your position that it is the staff responsible for the ICU - and on the other hand you say that we should have more ICU beds. If we had five thousand IF beds, shouldn't there be staff for them five thousand IF beds? And because you are once again distorting what Mr Gerapettritis said, this has been mentioned in an overall debate that Germany has had to follow and Germany has to follow forty thousand beds. When there was no vaccination movement and the only way to protect the pandemic was to prevent those national systems that overestimated the number they unfortunately only managed, because they did not pass non-mobility measures so as not to have the virus mobilisation in the community, to create much more nursing and when many more hospitalizations are created and much more hospitalization in ICUs. What our country has chosen in combination - and it was a good choice - is that there should be restrictive measures, so that we do not have the mobility of COVID and that there is not much dispersion in the community and, at the same time, almost three-fold ICU beds can be reached, so that we can cover up. It wasn't just the meth beds. It was a combination. Because the more nursing you have, the more nursing in ITH beds you have, where based on numbers there may be mortality from 36% to 72%. So, the more people you finally send to the ICUs, the more mortality increases. So what did we do? We did the combined measures limiting mobility, increasing the IF beds, staffing the IF beds. That is why - without satisfying us this, because we are talking about human lives - I come here to the National Representation to tell you that our indicators as a whole are much better than indicators which, if we imagined before the pandemic, the national health system that they have, we knew it was much better than the Greek one.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Minister. You can see that in this debate you both had a lot of time to go through. Anyway. Before entering the next time-consuming question, I would like to inform the House: The Ministers for Maritime Affairs and Islands Policy, Economic, Development and Investment, Education and Religious Affairs, Health, Environment and Energy, Culture and Sport, Justice, Home Affairs, Infrastructure and Transport, Rural Development and Food, Tourism, State Ministers, Deputy Ministers of Finance, Development and Investment, Home as well as the Deputy Minister for Culture and Sport submitted a draft law on 10 September 2021: ‘Presenting a code of legislation on integrated maritime policy in the island area, on the implementation mechanism, state supervision and general conditions for the implementation of Transport Equivalent’. In addition, the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, Development and Investment, Foreign Affairs, Citizen Protection, National Defence, Education and Religious Affairs, Labour and Social Affairs, Health, Environment and Energy, Culture and Sport, Justice, Home Affairs, Immigration and Asylum, Infrastructure and Transport, Maritime Policy, Rural Development and Food, Tourism, State Ministers, Deputy Ministers of Finance, Development and Investment, Foreign and Home Affairs, as well as the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sports, have tabled a draft law on 10 September 2021 on the Law of the Legal Council of the State (NSK) and the status of its officials and employees. Both draft laws are referred to the relevant committees. An eighth question will now be discussed under No 1024/6-9-2021 on the second question of the President of Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Digital Governance on the subject: 'To remove the unfavourable treatment of agricultural parcels from the legacy of rural rehabs of the Mirasia refugees'. The Deputy Minister of Digital Governance will answer Mr. Theodoros Lebanon. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Mr President. As you can see, because the morning procedure did not allow it, I will make a reference to the day, which is directly related to the contents of the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u89	Since you were not here, it was also mentioned by the Bureau this morning. Of course, you can talk and time doesn't start.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u90	I said it because it wasn't foreseeable.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u91	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u92	The long history of our country, with small and large successes and corresponding failures, enables important lessons to be learned. Today, ninety years after the Asia Minor Destruction and ninety-seven years after the end of the uproar of the Greeks of Asia Minor from their homes, the memories are unclean and the homes are unforgettable. We honor the victims of the atrocities of the Turks, those who gave their lives for the country and the fairs of Hellenism, but also those who survived and fought and contributed in every way to the survival and social integration of the uprooted. We honor the Asia Minor, who blocked the national body and contributed to the country's recovery and progress, agricultural production, professions, arts and letters and culture in general. The lessons of the next generations have been many, but I would point out three: firstly, the need for national understanding, since, after the great success of the Treaty of Serbs, the national strategy and unity have not been maintained, and so the opposition until then has been facilitated and Turkey's reorganisation against us. Secondly, active participation in the formation and creation of tomorrow and the future, such as the admirable effort to repair the country by involving all Greek natives and rooted in spite of the frictions and problems of relations between them. And thirdly, the need to honor patriots, both the protagonists and the anonymous, simple fighters of freedom, democracy and progress. The question is directly related to the day, since today, almost a century later, there are issues relating to the management of agricultural assets and not only that were given to the restoration of the Asia Minor. Today it is maintained that this property is treated differently. In particular, two parcels or land are treated differently from the legislation, if one is of lots of agricultural restoration, part of it, and if it is of property that has nothing to do with lots, especially if the partition took place before 2012, which was prohibited by law, where was subsequently authorised by Law No 4061/12. The problem had arisen in Heraklion and in the process of expropriating land for the construction of the airport and was successfully addressed by legislation of the Ministry of Rural Development, in particular Article 19 of Law 4711/2020. The same problem arose in the recognition of parcels in the Register, and the same problem arises for parcels not derived from lots. So what we are asking for is the lifting of the discrimination of legacy agricultural parcels, with the corresponding provision of Article 19 of Law 4711 which will constitute an act of justice and equal treatment and a procedure which is necessary for the procedures of the Register to be carried out unnecessarily. And that is why we are asking the Minister if he intends to remove the discrimination of legacy parcels in relation to the declarations in the register, if he intends to cooperate with the Ministry of Rural Development, which is the most relevant ministry, and he is glad that your predecessor, who now has responsibility for the Ministry of Rural Development, has acknowledged this and we will see what he will say to us. To this end, I will present to you a draft regulation which I have tabled yet again as an amendment similar to that proposed by Mr Vorides, which at the same time ensures that this regulation concerns only the procedures of the register and does not in any way affect any rights already created on the legacy. I present it, Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, too. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u94	Mr. Kegeroglu, the issue you raise is serious and concerns several beneficiaries, especially agricultural parcels and mainly in Crete where transfers have been made other than notarial operations and before 2012 for many times, etc.. The Department of Digital Governance is doing what it will do to implement the legislation. Therefore, if the relevant Ministry - the Ministry of Rural Development - has recently proposed the resolution of this issue in a way that does not affect property, then I am glad that the Greek Register will implement any solution as soon as possible. And obviously - in order not to abuse time - yes, the answer is that we intend to work with the Ministry of Rural Development to achieve the best possible solution so that we do not trouble the citizens. I can tell you that it is true that the judiciary has a difficult cost which often goes beyond the value of the parcel for which the declaration is made, plus the burden on the courts, plus the suffering of the citizens, the time that they lose, and so on. So the answer is that yes, since the relevant ministry is in a position to resolve it - and it is really a pity that Mr Stylis knows it on both sides - we are prepared to contribute immediately to its implementation. You had done, if I am not mistaken and questioned before the summer holidays, so I think we will be in direct communication to resolve the matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u95	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, first of all, I am pleased with your reply because you recognise that there are messages that demonstrate the problem and, above all, what you have mentioned, that the procedures currently provided for under the law in order to settle the register require many times more money than the value of the property. In this sense, an arrangement similar to that in the case of simple parcels is needed. For a simple agricultural parcel - which is not a legacy - a procedure is certainly envisaged to be declared in the E9, but there are two sworn statements - a simple procedure which uses and the procedure of use - in order to be declared in the register and to follow the procedure laid down. This is not recognized, because the lifting of the partition ban took place in 2012. Incidentally it was again my proposal and it was accepted by the then Minister of the Scandalides. However, it has not been possible since then to implement the simple procedure that I have mentioned since, given the fact that twenty years have not elapsed. That is why there is a need for regulation. A question will be debated next week to the Minister for Rural Development, who had recognised as State Secretary for Digital Policy the problem precisely or almost yours. I therefore believe that it will not be sent back to this Chamber and that we will find the solution. The solution concerns thousands of people, especially in Crete - not only in Crete, but especially in Crete - because in Crete the law of informal transfer and atypical parental provision had been applied as a legacy of the law of the Cretan state. So, while it was facilitated, it seems that, in order to make progress in the normalisation of the register and other procedures, it is a big problem and there should be these transitional provisions in order to find a solution. In total time, Mr President, we have not been abused and have not been involved in plenary with Mr Livano-Plath, much more than with the other questions. I hope that the solution will go ahead, as we have set it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u98	I will be very brief, Mr President. Indeed, it is so complex, and up to a point it was extremely difficult to understand, because by 2012 there was a ban on partitioning the clergy. Examples have been created there. In 2012 it became an important section that, in fact, recognised retrospectively those who had proceeded with a notarial act and had been a slower symbolic act. In fact, we are going to go to cases which are a little harder, which we need to resolve. I repeat, therefore, that we are ready to resolve the issue as soon as possible on the agenda. As the expedited Ministry, the Ministry of Rural Development, has moved to such a solution - Mr Stylis knows that - I think it will soon work. Above all, we are interested in not harming the world financially or at a waste of time and in resolving the issue, without prejudice to the rights of other citizens already in existence. You have made the amendment. I think it is a basis which can be considered by the Ministry of Rural Development and I very soon hope we have a solution. It's not just about Crete. It concerns many regions in Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u99	Thank you both very much for keeping time. We enter the thirteenth, with number 1030/6-9-2021, a topical question from the President of Heraklion of the Change Movement, Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'Taking back on the energy increase and strengthening the transparency of tariffs'. The current question will be answered by the Secretary of State for the Environment and Energy, Mr George Amyras. Mr Kegeroglu, you have the floor to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Mr President. The policy pursued by the previous government, but also the policy followed by the government, your own leads instead of the liberalisation of the electricity market and consumer protection at the same time in enslaving both interests and oligopolistic systems. The stock exchange of pollutants, the violent degreasement and the dominant position of gas in the electricity generation mix have already brought their negative results, having made our country absolutely vulnerable to international changes. The rises in electricity tariffs today have as main cause an increase in gas prices - from EUR 22 to EUR 45, the unit price - without a policy and a mechanism for their recovery. Invoices to businesses and households have been significantly charged over the last two months, particularly in September. I am presenting you with an electricity account with the adjustment clause that appears to be EUR 162 from EUR 162 for the consumer to pay EUR 203 for it. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] However, these increases increase and the operating costs of enterprises are increasing and thus moving, with increases in basic goods and services, an even greater burden on the family budget. A special package of EUR 150 million was announced to the IGC yesterday for tomorrow that you will specialize, as has been said, on Tuesday, that is, on 14 September. In addition, a three-month power subsidy for the weaker was announced. We hope that they will be concerned with everyone so that there is even one temporary relief. But that is not enough in our view. We need to address the operative cause of the problem. There needs to be a mechanism to bring up these appreciations. That is why I ask you: in your view, the concrete measures announced are sufficient? Are we going to have more? Will their expertise be able to meet the needs of consumer protection? At the same time, will you proceed to favourable consumer debt regulation arrangements in order to alleviate the problem that exists so that they can also pay the current bills along with any accumulated ones? What specific measures do you intend in particular to take - the government thinks, since they were not announced yesterday - to address the causes of growth and to shield the country against international changes and problems which we should somehow address? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mr Kegeroglu, we share the same, truly, thought and concern. Global energy prices have indeed increased dramatically in recent years. This results in a strong impact not only on the Greek market, but on all the markets in the world. What is of interest to us and what links us to our question and our answer is to find ways to strengthen vulnerable households, middle-class, small and medium-sized enterprises in this new setting and to cope with these global issues, such as increasing energy prices. It is therefore a question of absorbing vibrations from this increase in electricity tariffs, so that there is the least possible losses for Greek consumers. So in the question yours and the citizens answered the Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, from the Thessaloniki International Exhibition, saying clearly and specifically about some countermeasures. What are these countermeasures? The first and most important is the creation of an Energy Transfer Fund, to which initially EUR 150 million will be made available. In essence, this will reduce significantly - even eliminate - the increases in electricity tariffs. The countermeasure concerns all domestic consumers, but also companies operating with low-voltage electricity, which is in fact a majority. As far as PPC's accounts are concerned, there will be almost complete normalisation of international revaluations, while private providers will be absorbed at least 80% of the increases. These will be done by direct State subsidies through the newly created Energy Transfer Fund. And let's look at two examples of how the Mitsotakis government will protect the citizens' pockets. If a typical PPC home client who consumes an average of three hundred KWh per month paid EUR 66,99, 67 euros, i.e., without the protection net we have already set up, he would have to pay 88,86 euros. After the support measures announced by the Prime Minister will ultimately pay 68,68 euros. In other words, instead of imposing it on EUR 22,01, it will only pay EUR 1,69 more. If the monthly consumption now reaches four hundred KWh, the old account that would be at 88.09 euros would be up to 118 euros. But eventually, thanks to the protection net through the Energy Transfer Fund, it will pay 91,01, that is, just EUR 2,96 above. If there were no support measures, it would pay almost 30 euros. The State supports 30 euros each MWh and from there on PPC and private providers will compensate for the overwhelming rate of growth. I would also remind you, Mr Kegeroglou, that already PPC since 5 August provides an additional discount of 50% on domestic and 50% on agricultural tariffs to reduce charges. In the first phase, as you quite rightly said, the grant to the electricity bill will be in the quarter of October - December. But if international energy prices remain high, then support measures will be extended.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u103	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, what has been announced is not a rejection. On the contrary, they are absolutely essential, simply not enough, nor can they be viable. And I'm explaining. The protection of the weaker and consumer in general in the first phase of the revaluations can be done by strengthening it in order to be able to pay the bills. If there is no problem, however, it means that the high sales on the PPC side may continue and not only - it is not just PPC - and all the producers who receive high prices and the taxpayers will pay the difference through a subsidy. In other words, while it is necessary to support the weak at first stage not to pay the bride, it is also so necessary to address the operative causes. That doesn't make a government today. There is a problem with setting up the price mechanism, which I have told you of course starts with the previous government, but there is a problem with regard to the energy mix, and that is why you need to look beyond the measures of the first few days and the first weeks that I have told you that it is also necessary for what has been done in addition, but I think you know about the needs that exist. There must be a mechanism to regain the companies' appreciation. Of course, when the gas price depends exclusively on the sales price abroad, you will tell me that there is a weakness here on our part. If that's the case, we'll have to see where we're buying and what we're buying. Because neither the sun nor the air did hesitate, nor the lignite that so far continues to produce a significant proportion of our energy. If it is the next day of defoliation that we have not ensured that we will not be dependent on the state-owned gas companies abroad and the higher prices that we will be sold to us, then things are not so good. That is why you need to see the energy mix and how we go ahead. An important issue on our point is the possibility for consumers to participate in energy clearing systems. It's very important. Unfortunately, I have heard that there are thoughts that this part of 'energy democracy' should not go ahead, as we have called it. Netting on energy supply with consumer rights must go ahead. Energy poverty now concerns a large part of the population. They're not just vulnerable. They are the small and medium-sized ones who have been hit in recent years by overtaxation, who have not risen up because of the crisis, but who have been hit with the pandemic and need to get into the game. If we leave the energy transition, as has been made clear, only in the few companies that are measured in less than one hand's fingers, then things will not be well in the future and will look for the responsibilities of our generation that makes liberalisation without rules and above all without care for the weak. That is why I would like to point out once again to you the need to address the causes of a different system of liberation and the exploitation of renewable energy sources and any source that can give us energy wealth. We are talking about energy wealth and justice, protection and right of participation of people belonging to social groups with energy poverty. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mr Kegeroglu, I agree with you and with something important and fundamental in your mind that the energy mix of the country needs to be changed. We are promoting renewable energy sources and because they are clean for the environment, and because, in fact, the country will be based on its own feet, on its own powers, to meet its energy needs, but also on another practical reason that you yourself mentioned in your protology, which is no other than the great cost of pollution trade. The frustration, which the Prime Minister put into action two years ago and implemented, shows how well the government did and how he also saw clearly and correctly what is happening in the international energy market, in the international energy market. The carbon pollutants two years ago cost 20 euros, now they have exceeded 50 euros.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u107	Thought you didn't have it fixed!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u108	I'm glad you agree that we did well, aren't you, Mr. Kegeroglu? We did well, therefore, to go ahead with the defoliation and increase the participation of clean energy sources, renewable energy sources, in the country's energy potential. I would also like to remind you that there are other measures to support vulnerable private households and small and medium-sized enterprises in terms of energy. Five hundred thousand vulnerable households are enrolled in the Social Home Price and benefit from a 45%-60% discount on the electricity bills. Farmers are also exempted from excise duty and from the charges of the Transport and Distribution Network, while they are entitled to reduced EMEA charges. There is another important step. Through the Recovery Fund, the Government has adopted a series of regulations to protect vulnerable - and, of course, consumers of electricity. As we have proposed, there is funding for local authorities, either directly or through energy communities, in which the LAGs will participate in the implementation of projects relating to renewable energy sources. In fact, these projects will be implemented with the money from the Recovery Fund. The energy produced by these projects will be shared by the consumption of vulnerable households. In this way, household energy costs will be drastically reduced and other resources will not be required. The choice of these vulnerable consumers will be made by local authorities themselves on the basis of objective criteria, ensuring that the targeting will be the actual homes vulnerable. It is estimated that in this way more than sixty thousand families can benefit. You asked me in the written question and the questions of favourable regulation. So here I would like to say: For customers with an objective inability to pay, PPC implements a simpler settlement system on more favourable terms, lower advance payments and a large number of instalments, thus facilitating these people to settle their dues. In any case, the settlement of the debts and the conditions accompanying it are issues which PPC is constantly reviewing for the benefit of all. Furthermore, since October 2020, PPC introduced the first fixed-price product, guaranteeing a financial benefit for households with discounts, without escalating charges burdening increased consumption and without any adjustment clause. The same continued it in the current year, even enriching its portfolio with additional products which ensure a stable low price. Also, since the beginning of the pandemic has stood next to the Greek society, having taken timely brave economic relief measures, such as the free standing for all low voltage customers, the 8% discount for consumers more than two thousand kilowatts and the 10 euro discount for each e-bill account for all customers. Now you will allow me, Mr President, and Mr Kegeroglou, to make a little mention of the issue of the Asia Minor Disaster, of this national disaster and to contribute with a little experiential experience by tabling a motion from the reports made by my grandmother, Euterpi Amyuras, the Mavroudi genus, which had come in 1922, after destruction, a child, younger in age, as my grandfather, with whom they met here in Athens, Kalithea. So, what was Grandma telling me then? That in the newspapers of Izmir - circulating many newspapers and daily and weekly - there was not even half the newspaper in which a party could not be put in. When I told her "What part did you do with her?" she said there was no home in Izmir without a piano without a musical instrument. If you wish, I would like to make a statement here, in our debate, to highlight once again the quality of the culture and the spirit of learning of the Smyrna. I agree with you, Mr Kegeroglu, that we need to honour patriots of freedom on every occasion and in every way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, too, Minister. We enter the debate of the third under number 1019/6-9-2021 in the first cycle of the Member of the Greek Communist Party of the Greek Communist Party, Emmanuel Synthraki, on the subject: "The measures necessary to support universal support for the survival of musicians in Crete". The Deputy Minister for Labour and Social Affairs will answer Mr Panagiotis Tsakloglou. Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, in 2020 and 2021 a large number of workers in culture, tourism - foodism, in various other sectors, have suffered a great deal of damage, due to the severe restrictive measures, the answerable lockdown and the continuing economic crises - capitalist crises - which our people have experienced. One of these places is that of the musicians, who have been tested very hard all this time, which lasts the pandemic and is in a complete dead end. Let me, of course, add to this harsh trial and another group of workers, that of professional reproducing music, known as DJs. They are in exactly the same situation. I will not make it difficult for you in the timely question. We have also submitted to you reports and questions on both of these cases. All these workers, then, before the pandemic, were on board limits of survival. In the pandemic, however, the problem of their survival deteriorated largely, without substantial support measures, despite the fact that there were various joint ministerial and legislative decisions. Now, of course, things are even worse. Since June, the government has stopped the grant of benefits on the grounds that they could work. Of course, reality is stubborn. He showed other things. Especially in Crete, where their work is interwoven and dependent on tourism, they have carried out very few parties. They may also be counted on one hand's fingers from the end of June and then, since then, the profession cannot function as a result of the restrictive measures decided by the Government for Crete. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of Parliament, Mr. Epostolos ABDELAS takes over]] The recent lifting of the restrictive measures in Chania and Rethymnon - is still in force in Heraklion - does not alleviate the problems of survival for all workers, the musicians, the professionals DJ in Crete, who have once again remained undisturbed. We are, of course, already in mid-September, that is to say, the tourist season is coming to an end. As a whole, they do not know when they will see a cut again, at the moment that has already preceded a very long period of unemployment, poverty, heterogeneous work and black work. You know, they don't find a job, someone else goes and gets a mess, someone else works in coffee, someone else goes to the field. It is a oneway many times for most people to meet their basic needs. It comes winter, the accuracy, the appreciations that are before the gates. We're already living in fuel, electricity, primary energy. All of this is literal. Winter is gloomy. So we ask you, Minister, how does the government intend to act to ensure that musicians work with the corresponding protection measures, free tests, epidemiological monitoring by the EGE at workplaces, strengthening the public health system? These go along with the full financial support from June and for the entire period that the profession cannot function properly, including those of musicians who joined the artists' register and after 10-1-2021. Accordingly, of course, we ask you when, how if you will support the professionals dj, who have not even received a special purpose allowance these people have not even received. What measures will you take to ensure the universal application of the seasonal allowance for all and for those who have not received an allowance or have not been suspended and, furthermore, to provide unemployment benefit for all the unemployed? We also ask you what measures you will take to cover all the insurance contributions from the State as long as pandemic and restrictive measures, without conditions and conditions. Finally, what are you going to do to protect their first home from auctions? Why did people come out of planning the evictions for not interrupting water supplies, electricity, telephone, HICP discharge, traffic charges, suspending payments to banks, taxes, services of general interest and reducing their rent? In other words, they are basic, fundamental and self-evident things that the government should have made progress. Please answer our specific questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u111	Thank you very much, Mr. Synergy. Good evening, good week. The Deputy Minister for Labour and Social Affairs will answer Mr Panagiotis Tsakloglou. Mr. Chacloglu, you have three minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u112	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Colombo, first of all I would like to thank you for your question. Although you are referring to a very specific group, such as the musicians of Crete, I would like to mention first of all the measures taken by the government to support household incomes and businesses. Its pandemic and containment measures have certainly affected the whole of the country's economic and social life. This has happened all over the world. At the same time, the need to support households and businesses in this difficult situation was imperative. But let us be honest. This support from the government was and is pragmatic and great. To speak with real data: nearly EUR 41 billion has been spent or planned to be spent in two years 2020-2021 on pandemic-related support measures, despite the amount of the country's public debt. In fact, especially in terms of unemployment rates, these measures seem to have been effective. According to the latest data available from EUROSTAT, in July, two months ago, unemployment stood at 14.6%, high, but decreased by 2.3 percentage points compared to July 2019, i.e. before a pandemic, and most of all, the number of employees was the highest in the last decade. The measures taken were mainly horizontal, i.e. they concerned all the branches, which were closed by a State mandate or the branches, which joined the pandemic affected. Also, as you know, these measures are not only the responsibility of the Ministry of Labour but also the Ministry of Finance, which decides on their perimeter, i.e. the activity numbers, the CISs, which will be incorporated into each measure. However, in your timely question you refer to a particular sector, that of artists and especially of your birthplace, Crete. You realise, of course, that the measures we have taken, especially for artists, are of a universal and not a local character. A basic measure applied to the artists’ industry was the special purpose compensation and the full cover of their insurance contributions. For this purpose, a specific electronic platform has been opened in the information system "ERGANI", in which artists, creators and professionals of art and culture are enrolled. Those registered on that platform were beneficiaries of the special-purpose compensation of EUR 534. In fact, for those who did not have a contract of employment to an employer or who did not receive the regular unemployment subsidy from the OAS, full insurance was provided. The measure was implemented as early as last May, and most of the restrictions began to be lifted. However, support does not stop there. Unfortunately, the pandemic is regaining and testing all of us' strengths and is obviously testing the strengths of local communities, as now any measures to limit the pandemic have only local character. I've been over my time. In my dentistry, I will answer you in detail, with regard to the next steps in the new environment that is being shaped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. Mr. Synhronakis, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u114	Thank you very much. Obviously, the problems faced by workers in the field of culture, the spectacle - acquaintance - do not only concern Crete. It is a pan-Hellenic issue. We have tabled corresponding questions and topical questions in the past - we may have to come back to them again - on a pan-Hellenic scale. This timely question concerns working musicians. I also supplemented the DJs, because these two categories in Crete - which are a tourist area and were more affected, with more lockdown and much longer than the rest of Greece - are also facing serious financial problems. So even if what you say is true is that you are sowing measures at a pan-Hellenic level, they must obviously also be divided according to the volume of problems faced by each region. Not only Crete, but Rhodes and Messinia are facing similar problems because they had reinforced lockdowns. To speak clearly, Minister, the government has sole responsibility. If you say that you have given and supported financially, the reality is quite different. What can we do now? Workers say they first got an allowance and then they didn't get back. DJs say they never got it from the start of the pandemic. How, then, did you support these workers? So the government alone is responsible for it because it refuses to take the necessary measures to protect public health in hospitals and workplaces, bringing everything back to vaccination and individual responsibility, that is to say it loads its own responsibilities for the management of the pandemic on the workers' backs and is content with restrictive measures, such as a ban on both live and reproducible music in the areas of health and entertainment in the areas of Crete. While you have put them in the neck - because this has actually happened - you at the same time tighten her even more and refuse to provide them with these crumbs that you share with those on job suspension. Note: We have free public transport, airports, planes, boats and so on. with absolute crowding and other restrictions on live or reproducible music. Isn't that contradictory? No other explanation is given, apart from the fact that the government is now confirmed that the government is selectively strengthening without restrictions or formal protocols - the elastic - business groups, while supporting them with provocative advantages, with warm state money, with tax exemptions, reduced contributions. I refer to airlines and shipping companies and so on. On the other hand, you have workers in hotels, catering, music, a whole spectacle - acne, in sectors such as focusing, gyms, dance schools and saying, where you ignore them, you throw them into poverty and unemployment. You also place them unacceptable restrictions on the right to work. As I told you, all of these are either in the form of a dependent job or are small professionals, they have suffered irreparable damage. The vast majority of musicians are currently in unemployment, without any substantial support. They are facing serious survival problems. Many are at risk of not getting the seasonal allowance. Keep this, it's your business. Even a part of the space he was taking and these poor support measures, at the moment he has absolutely nothing in his hands. Tell us, did the Prime Minister tell us at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition yesterday and did we not see any financial support for these workers? Nothing. It's all given to the few again. It's not just the government. It's the government along with the employer. And that's your concern, Minister. That's why we sent her to the Ministry of Labour. Of course, we have addressed it to the Ministry of Finance. We're probably all addressing them to the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Labour, etc. In a number of workplaces the employer makes use of government measures, anti-terror measures. To break working rights by putting the pandemic ahead and respecting the protection measures with the backs of the government leaves musicians exposed, it throws the blame even further. Workers are under pressure of uninsured work, dismissal and extortion for voluntary resignation. At the same time, employers are pulling the musicians out of the suspensions, without at the same time employing them professionally or dismissing them. Many working musicians are, as I told you, working to enable them to live. They cannot join or end up at some point in the register that has already been entered, the record of musicians. Unfortunately, however, this register, like all the others, like the farmers, eventually became the Trojan Horse to fly out of their professional musicians. In any case, Mr President, live music workers, DJ professionals, I would add to the street musicians who the government considers to be second-class artists, have the right to life, have the right to work, have the right to be able to live with dignity in their families. In these circumstances, therefore, the government is called upon to provide financial support to enable these people to live. Please, in your dentext, answer much more specifically the questions that we asked you in the archeology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Mr. Synchronous. Mr. Chacloglu, you have three minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u116	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Synthraki, I mentioned in detail what has so far been done for artists and, more generally, professionals of art and culture. As was the case in all other sectors which either closed on a State mandate or were affected by the pandemic due to restrictive measures, the basic tool for the replacement of workers' incomes was the special purpose compensation. Especially for artists who were part of all the categories you mentioned, as well as street artists, their entry into the register from which they received the allowances was made by unilateral declaration. The number that joined there was unexpectedly large. We've covered them all. So with a unilateral declaration they could become beneficiaries of the compensation and even receive full insurance cover. That's it until May. Since pandemic is a dynamic process, we must show the necessary reflexes to meet the needs that always arise by following experts’ instructions. There is what you said about why in musicians and spaces and not in others. Instructions for specific follow-up. But the way the pandemic is handled has changed. With the main weapon of vaccines, we hope that we will avoid generalised restrictions on economic activity, while whatever measures are taken and have or will have a local character in the future, they are aimed at as little as possible. However, there may still be a need for measures to support workers in firms affected by these measures. Such workers - you also refer to your question - are musicians, as one of the measures is to restrict or ban music services. For these workers, a joint ministerial decision will be promoted to allow employers, who are based or have branches in regional units in the country where music services are not permitted or where there is a time limit for their provision by a public authority, to suspend workers' contracts of employment for the duration of that mandate. The above will apply to workers in enterprises who have a registered office or branch in the relevant regions of the country, based on the activity code of the CAR - defined by the Ministry of Finance and those undertakings will not apply eligibility criteria in respect of their turnover. In this way, we respond to another need that has arisen and prove in practice that we have the reflexes to address the potential character of the pandemic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u117	Thank you, too, Mr. Undersecretary. Now we will discuss the second question with No 1018/6-9-2021 on the second question of the Boeotian MP of the Change Movement Mr. Georgios Mulkiotis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "The Government must ensure the preservation of labour law and prevent collective redundancies in the Kavala Phosphoric Fertilizers Industry". Mr. Mulkiotis, good evening, and good week. You have two minutes for your protology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the Minister for Labour, Mr Hatzidakis, in June 2021 - a few months ago - had met representatives of the workers who were then made redundant in the Kavala Fertilizers industry and made it clear that he did not take back a single word from what he had denounced here, he himself, as a member of the Officerial Representation at the time, at a time when he was headed and signed by the Minister, on the methods of Mr Laurentiadis in the industry in Kavala, and then promised that he would seek immediate consultation with employers - in June 2021 - on the one hand, to return the thirty-three workers to their jobs as they normally worked and, on the other, on the other hand, to operate in accordance with the rules of law and security for all workers. In July, one month later, 2021, there was a meeting of the Prime Minister with representatives of workers in Xanthi. And then Mr Mitsotakis was committed to personally dealing with the issue of these thirty-three families in order to resolve their problem. Minister, you know that after two months, not only did the employer not proceed with the removal of the available capacity, so that these workers could be transferred to companies for an indefinite period of time and to work, but it moved forward in accordance with Law 4471/2017 in the process of collective redundancies. This has not been the case for too long. On 9 August, unfortunately, the hundred and thirty-three workers with an indefinite contract of employment in Kavala Fertilizers are collectively fired and thus a very heavy chemical industry, the country's only composting industry, will be in breach of domestic and European legislation with contractors, in fact, of a few months' duration. Minister, a government which is committed to rescuing jobs must comply with these commitments and do not have collective redundancies in a particular area where unemployment is squeezing. The second meeting of the Labour Council on 20 July 2021, on the subject of these collective redundancies, approved these. And what did it prove? That there is no respect for any reason and no issue is given in any debates, unfortunately. You circumvented judicial decisions and a hundred and thirty-three employees are on the way. One hundred and thirty-three employees with their families don't know what they're doing. The questions are two. Unfortunately, you are here today to answer and Mr Hadjidakis should be here to answer why he has personal and personal relationship and responsibility. You have nothing to do with it, unfortunately, but you are here today. First question. Will there be a measure to prevent the final implementation of this decision of thirty-three collective redundancies, especially in this area, as I said, Kavala and the legality of the factory? Question two. Do you intend, Minister, to take as a Ministry of Labour measures to change the data and prevent them and so not to be the Ministry of Labour of thirty-three groups of redundancies? I told the House a while ago when we discussed the supplementary insurance bill. You can't say anything different. One hundred and thirty-three team redundancies! Mr. Hatzidakis is the minister of team redundancies. Is he going to stop these phenomena in these companies today? You have responded once again to the House, and you have said in person, Mr Minister, which - I repeat - Mr Hatzidakis denounced as a Member of the Civilian Police Department. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, too. And this question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Panagiotis Tsakloglu. Mr. Chacloglu, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u120	Thank you again, Mr President. Mr Mulkiotis, we have discussed the issue of the Phosphoric Fertilizers industry many times within the framework of parliamentary control. Obviously, the conflict between these workers and their employer is known to the Ministry of Labour and the relevant departments. In your question, you say that the Labour Council approved redundancies of thirty-three workers, making it clear that it could refuse their approval and did not do so. It's not like that. And I'll explain exactly why. The law applicable is Law 4472/2017. According to this law, the process of collective redundancies was radically altered by what previously applied. The main changes were the abolition of competence on a case-by-case basis by the prefect or the Minister of Labour not to approve collective redundancies if there is no agreement during the negotiations. A competent body, under the new law, is the Higher Labour Council, but it is now only responsible to determine whether the employer's obligations for informing and consulting employees' representatives have been complied with and the obligation to communicate the relevant documents. Consequently, the Higher Labour Council cannot approve complaints of contracts of employment. In addition, Law 4472/2017 provides for the possibility - and not the obligation - of the employer to consider a social plan for redundant workers, i.e. measures to alleviate the effects of redundancies. With regard to collective redundancies, the law provides that the deadline for consultation between workers and employers is thirty days and that the result of these consultations is formulated in a practice submitted by the employer to the Labour Council. A memorandum on the negotiations may also be submitted by workers' representatives. If agreement is reached by the Parties, collective redundancies shall be made in accordance with the content of the Agreement and shall be valid for 15 days from the date of submission of the memorandum to which I referred before the Supreme Labour Council. From there on, the law provides that the Labour Council may request an extension of the procedure if it considers that the employer’s obligations have not been fulfilled. However, redundancies shall apply sixty days after notification of the consultation report in accordance with the applicable legislation. As far as this is concerned, I have told you from the outset that the conflict between this group of workers and their employer has lasted for a long time and is well known to the Ministry of Labour. On 22-6-2021, the Ministry of Labour responsible received the file. The audit of the documents found that there was no agreement between the negotiating parties on the termination of the contracts of employment of a hundred and twenty-eight ‘ELFE’ workers at its premises in Kavala. At this meeting of the Labour Council, the employees argued that the employer had not provided sufficient financial data to carry out substantial consultations. The President of the IAEA and the Secretary-General for Labour, Mr. Tsrainakis, even pointed out to the company the need to strengthen the social package and to submit further economic data. At that meeting the employer was given a deadline of 16-7-2021 to finalise the social package and provide more financial information. I repeat, Mr Mulkiotis, that everything that I describe to you is the procedure as provided for in the law, by stressing, before I go on with my denture, that the Ministry of Labour has exhausted the possibilities offered to it under its institutional role in accordance with existing legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, too. Mr. Mulkiotis, you have the floor for your dentistry for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, Mr President. [[At this point, the Member, George Mulkiotis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Minister, the premise that these people should be fired and that the demand for collective redundancies should be implemented was unique. It was such that the Ministry of Labour did not even examine who is being fired. Unfortunately, the thirteen workers were workers with special conditions, they were employed with disabilities, they were recruited under the provisions of Law 2643/1998 and could not be fired. He did not examine the competent body. He didn't even bother. He fired them, too. He didn't see that the law provided for other provisions. He didn't see that only the OAED has the right to fire them and no one else. And that's what I'm saying to see how the files are being examined and what happened in this process. Thirteen, therefore, fellow workers have been fired even though there was no right to dismiss them by this procedure. And he did that. He thinks the law is being observed. Minister, I will produce in the Minutes a relevant press release of the Federation of Chemical Industry Workers of Greece, who denounce that the financial data submitted by the employer was the 2014 balance. I will put this before the Minutes because it needs to be answered and what happened there. Also, Minister, let me say that you have quite rightly answered another timely question on 12 March 2021 concerning the employer, which the highest council did not see. Is he an employer? What if he's an employer, how many companies he owns and what actions does he take in this area? You have said, Minister, and I have the minutes, that the second local branch of employees in the Attica and South has made a decision on the co-responsibility of seven companies, including the Kavala Fertilisers, of those made redundant. He's an employer. Seven companies have at least made out by the competent agencies of the EPC, which you yourself said in the House. Report on the second local payroll office that has made such a decision for the F branch that has made such a decision. So, what's going on here? We have co-responsibility for most of the companies together with the Kavala Fertilizers which companies are after Kavala Fertilizers and continue. And now we are talking about an employer who brings information with such adolescent companies that it is all good and has seen the highest council well. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will tell you, Minister, that the LIMITED Kavala Fertilisers have a foreign branch with debts to the EVA EUR 1.018.568. He had been set up and lost it in June 2020. Forced recovery measures were not taken by the CRL. The co-responsibility company - 'Rivera Holdings Limited Athens' has debts of EUR 3,433.556. He lost the arrangement as of August 2020. In this case, the above measures have not been taken. The other company ‘SERTORIUS LIMITED’ has no certified debts. He started immediately a while ago, on 15-10-2020. This is another company that started then. "PFIC LIMITED" and "ELLAGROLIPA Anonymous Industrial Company". There has been a request for a co-responsibility examination. No decision at that time. I don't know if a decision has been made today. Co-responsible, too. And what do you think, Minister? You say: 'The debts that have already been created are high and appear to be created in a systematic way'. That is what you say, Minister, in your position on these company phenomena in Kavala as they are. The facilities are common. That is where all those who are active are active. And we ask: these data, and as economic data, make adjustments, do not pay anything, be hundreds of millions - thousands of people want, however - insurance contributions due. A private person doesn't dare have more than 25 to 30 thousand euros insurance obligations. He runs the IKA right away and prosecutes him. Here, too, we have infinite and high debts, and we see that there is nonetheless the adoption of collective redundancies. Something's wrong, Minister! I repeat that you are forced to come here to answer us, but the ministry must take a clear position. Group redundancies in the midst, with such an economic crisis, with a Kavala which is at its worst? Where did that sound? Beyond legality or allegedly respecting the law. Because we have issues. Has the law been observed? I told you the thirteen cases. I don't know if they're more. The thirteen are at least denounced, who had no right to deal with and dealt with. Something's wrong. There's still time. It can politically deal with the Ministry and deal seriously and prevent these collective redundancies and a hundred and thirty-three families from living, Minister. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Mr. Mulkiotis. The Minister has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u124	Mr Mulkiotis, I think you are really wrong with the efforts made by the Ministry of Labour in this particular case. As far as the position of the House in March is concerned, I remain in every word of what I have said there. But that was a different matter. It was insurance contributions and so on. Here's your question. It's about team redundancies. That is what I answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u125	But it has something to do with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u126	It's because it's the same company. But that doesn't mean it's the same question. So I'm coming back. Let me answer the substance of your question, namely, on collective redundancies. Following on from what I mentioned in my prototype, at the second meeting of the Labour Council held on 20-07-2021 it was found that the company had actually submitted further financial information as requested and updated the actions of its social plan, as was the continuation of the insurance contributions of the workers under dismissal until 31/12-2021. In the subsequent vote the formal procedure provided for by the law was completed to complete the redundancies. Mr Mulkiotis there is no doubt that every unemployed person who is added to the long, unfortunately, a list of the unemployed in our country is a problem and it is very serious that the state is obliged to deal as effectively as possible. In a more general context, during the pandemic, the government made a systematic effort to save as many jobs as it could. And thankfully for all of us, it seems that all this support to businesses and workers has been paid back. I said before that, according to data published by EUROSTAT for our country in July 2021, the unemployment rate was reduced to 14.6%, a high percentage, but more than two points lower than it was in July 2020 and lower than we had in the period before the pandemic. And most important of all, we have a much higher number of workers than we've had in ten years. It is a very welcome development. In this context, the government's objective is to continue to support as much as possible the weakest and most vulnerable. And that's what we do. Especially for this group, as the Minister for Labour himself, Mr Hatzidakis, has informed them, will the OAED make every effort to re-entry them into the local labour market, i.e. in the region of Kavala. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u127	Thank you too, Minister. Have a good day to both of you. Let's go to the next question. Follow the first question under number 1016/3-9-2021 of the SYRIZA MEP - Progressive Alliance Mr Vassilis Kokkalis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: “Support for cotton”. Mr. Red, good evening, good week. You have the floor for two minutes for your startup.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u128	Good evening, Mr. President. Thank you. Minister, as you well know, cotton is one of the most dynamic crops in our country. About fifty thousand producers are employed. Cott for many regions is an exclusive source of income for farmers. The end of 2018, after consulting the inter-professional cotton organisation, developed the national cotton strategy. For the first time, a strategy has been drawn up for a product and it would be good - and that is a proposal - to follow other products of this kind in national strategies. In this national strategy, which will be implemented over a decade, specific actions are described which aim to only produce certified and quality cotton. In order to achieve this, however, active partnership is required, the assistance of the Ministry of Rural Development. Will the Minister for Rural Development therefore ask what action you intend to take to shield the income of cotton producers and to achieve the objective of quality cotton? For example, I mention the national crop standard 'AGRO 2.1' 'AGRO 2.2' if it is possible to join the Rural Development Programme. If there are specific measures for the determination, for the measurement of foreign matter in cotton. If you intend to apply in practice and in practice the decision of the Ministry of Rural Development, which speaks of price compulsion, that is to say, to definitively eliminate the phenomenon of open prices, as well as the procedure to reward the producer who produces quality cotton through the services of the Ministry of Rural Development and the cotton sales. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, Mr. Red. The Minister for Rural Development and Food will answer Mr. Spyridon Panagiotis Lebanese. Minister, good evening, good week. You have three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u130	You too, Mr. President. It's good to see you again. Dear Mr. Red, you know why we have discussed them several times in private, that I fully agree with you that cotton is a very dynamic, historical and important crop for the Ministry. You also know - I break open doors, but I will repeat - that this crop is linked to our prolongation, with Constantine Karamanlis and his placement towards the European Community at that time in relation to the connection between our admission to cotton. Through this process, the cotton-linked gives for 2020 some 187 million euros, about 734 million euros per hectare, for the basic issue of the two hundred thousand hectares. You are simply aware of this because the way the question is written actually includes the whole cotton policy. With regard to the sale price for cotton for Greece in 2020, this was around EUR 0.41 pound. I am staying on an introduction to cotton, Mr President, because the question has a lot to do. I need a lot of time and I will either answer two doses with the denology or I will take my time in protology, but I have to really answer the whole question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u131	As you prefer, because the issue is quite serious and the Larissans are now listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u132	Therefore, apart from the areas affected by Janus, which were covered to an overwhelming extent by ELGA's aid with about EUR 23.5 million in the rest of the country - the price was 0.41. This price is reduced in relation to that of the exact previous period at a minimum because, as evidenced by the data available to our Ministry, last year's price was EUR 0.44 pound. If you want, you can see them freshen up. [[At this point, the Minister for Rural Development and Food Mr Spyridon - Panagiotis (Spilios) Lebanese presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] As far as the current growing season is concerned, the international price of cotton is at very high and good levels for our producers, the highest in recent years. The prices we see for 2021 can only be compared to those we saw in the period 2010-2011. According to data from the International Counsellor for Counselling cotton, the cotton industry, and so producers, are heading towards a truly dynamic market and good prices for this year's year. Irrespective of all of this, the Ministry of Rural Development is now acting with its consistent aim to strengthen farming and that direction which you described a moment ago, namely the qualitative upgrading and strengthening of its price. In this context, the cotton Commission operates. He has met not only on 7-7-2019, as you mentioned in the written part of your question, but twice more, on 10-11-2020 and on 3-6-2021, and another atypical, because there was an addition of two very useful people to it immediately after July. This committee actually delivered last June this spirit of the national strategy you referred to and which is based, in essence, on five pillars expressing our policy, namely improving the economic data, competitiveness, quality and identity of the Greek cotton, which is what you mentioned, highlighting the environmental aspects of its production process and maintaining and ensuring its support through the new CFP precisely for cotton. These five pillars, which I think we are in agreement with, because they had begun to be registered for your days, are already open for public consultation and we expect the participation of both the institutions and the individual opinions that can be recorded to help us. The aim is for this committee to continue to operate in the context of this national strategy. We'll have a chance to tell your country, Larissa, on Friday. The aim is, therefore, to operate at least four times a year on a specific agenda and specific timetables. If necessary, this will be more. So in this context, I think we are in the same direction as what you are concerned about and asked about. And so that I close the prototype and return to the dentext with your specific seven questions, the Ministry's position on my day is that we work with strategic groups not only in cotton and other products and international issues that concern us, so that we enrich our policy in terms of the market and producers' views and expert opinions, beyond, of course, always from the specific points of view and the useful positions of the service players. I therefore think that in cotton, as in other policies in our rural development, we have a common place and it is good to cultivate this climate and together work for our producers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u133	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Red, you have three minutes for your dentistry, although I think it covered you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u134	Minister, first of all, I am pleased that you are adopting the national cotton strategy, which was the result of the work of the whole cotton chain, producers and ginners, but also of the political leadership at the time. I would just like to highlight and focus on two issues: firstly, production costs and, secondly, climate change and ways, the tools for addressing cotton. It would be advisable to include cotton in environmental programmes such as staging irrigation, which will help the environment much but will help produce ecological and qualitative cotton. Also, it is the measurement of the energy and aqueous footprint on cotton crops. That can be done, but it's cheap. It can be done for all cotton producers, but it's costly. From the Ministry of Rural Development today cotton producers are waiting to hear from you the suggestions you have, the intention to integrate cotton into ways of dealing with climate change, with as much energy as possible. As far as the cost of production is concerned, it is not, of course, solely your responsibility, such as electricity. The solution would be energy clearing, Minister, for all farmers. For everyone, nonetheless. And I appeal from this Step, all farmers and all farmers are entitled to energy compensation. As today is the network of TENs, unfortunately, it does not allow them to do so. However, we need to take care of what it had started in 2018, so that this right, Minister, - imagine, only seventy-five farmers throughout the Larissa Prefecture have this right. Isn't that a pity, really, about his work? - in view of the increase in electricity, not on a voluntary basis, but on the energy offset in the well-known net metering. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u135	And we, Mr. Red. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u136	First of all, I have no hesitation to agree with you that we need to pay attention to the energy footprint they have said, to ecological use, to the protection of water resources by methods which do not spend too much water, because you realise how important this is and, of course, to produce quality products. I am starting with what you have said lately about energy offsetting, with the third point you are asking about production costs, where you rightly said that it is not ours at all. You saw this weekend that a big step was taken for producers in the primary sector, reducing VAT on raw materials for our farmers. You know that we voted with a very large effort - and mine - to try the photovoltaic at 500 KW, which was a request from all the farmers and that caught a place. You know, because the first announcements have already been made, that while we are at a time that almost doubles the cost of energy for all citizens and outside Greece, we manage with the tools we have in our hands to keep the price of electricity at the same price as it was. In general terms, therefore, the government's policy within the framework of our budgets is to reduce production costs. There are other ways in which we can discuss and, in any case, integrate into this national strategy and promote. In the part of the question about the inclusion of the new AGRO 2.1, 2.2, 2.4, the answer is positive. Something that the previous governments have not been able to do, we have secured and managed to get into measure 3.1 of the current programming period, despite the fact that we are actually working for the next period. Nevertheless, we made the move that had to be made, it had not been done by the previous governments - I say it again - and we joined the budget of the Rural Development Programme for 2022 to 40 000. On the contrary, in the hustle there is no money, no money had been provided by the previous governments, so we cannot afford to run this green measure. But it is within our plans to enter the next one, which we are planning and whose responsibility we have. With regard to strengthening the control of the proportion of foreign materials in composite cotton, I have told you - and I have told you before - that we want to invest in the good quality of good cotton and that we want to set up our strategy. This is also demonstrated by the successful efforts and agreements that have been concluded by ELGO - 'DIMITRA', and I think that will move cotton in the next few years. This is also demonstrated by the successful efforts and agreements that have been concluded by ELGO - 'DIMITRA', and I think that this will move cotton in the coming years. In this context, of course, in order to be honest, the issue of the purity of cotton - from a production area of cotton - is mainly concerned with ginners and producers, and they must also take on their part. We, however, are next to this effort with all our means. With regard to telescopic controls, we have done huge work in this effort, and we are moving in that direction, covering 100%. In order to make up for lost income, I just want to say, in relation to what I said before, that the differences were too small, except for COVID -19. However, advance payments were made to the cotton producers EUR 47,656,715. These are the figures from the Ministry of Finance, where they are responsible for this kind of aid. Finally, as far as the implementation of your own cotton sales decision is concerned, the policies that you have approved are fully implemented, rather decided. In this respect, I have two announcements, one of the Interprofessional Organisation of cotton and one of the Pan-Hellenic Association of Evil Exporters of cotton, which, in essence, say exactly what I said to you, apply your own decisions. Through this, you realise that once again, where we see the right policies, we follow them and apply them for the benefit of Greek production.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u137	Thank you very much, Minister. Have a good time, Mr. Red. Well done with cotton. Let's see the black raisin now. We continue with the third with the number 1020/6-9-2021 top-circuit question of the Achaias MP of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: “Deposition of Corinthian (Black) raisins”. Mr. Karathanasopoulos, good evening, and good week! You have two minutes to start.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u138	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, you know the problem. You are well aware of this and relate to the substance of the stock created by the seven thousand tons of last year's production in the public limited company "Panayalia Association of Cooperatives". Why was that stock? It is not related to the fact that there was overproduction in 2020. On the contrary, production was reduced, about twenty-two thousand tonnes. And if we imagine that ten years ago the production of raisins was about sixty thousand tons, you understand very well that we are talking about a very small quantity that does not justify. Of course, the cause of this stock lies in competition, in the most steadfast competition, between the exporting companies chaired by Panayiah, which wants to play the dominant role in the market, to lead the market as an anonymous company by flying from outside the rest of the exporters. It brought together a very large part of the production, so that the seven thousand tons remain indisposed. So the stock is due to the competition of capitalists for profit and the laws of the capitalist market. The problem that has now arisen is a multifaceted one, Minister. On the one hand, Panayaia, as a public limited company, operates in a specific legislative framework, which all governments have shaped, and therefore the recording of trade damage, due to the non-sales of the seven thousand tonnes, will be burdening the raisin producers, its members, who will ask the association to cover the damage and, on the other, - not only that - it is that, while harvesting has begun, no price can be fixed today. Already the Panayial Union accepts quantities of raisins by simply giving a deposit, without telling what price. Other traders give a closed price of 1,25 or an open price of 1,15 for production in Achaea, while in Elia 1,15. It is a price which is humiliating when, last year, the price reached EUR 1.6 to EUR 1.7, 2019 to EUR 1.75 and 2018 to EUR 2.05 pound and even though this year's crop is much smaller. Producers estimate that it will be about 30% lower than last year because of climate conditions and heat, but also some quartz that fell in some areas in the previous year. In this respect, producers risk not being able to sell or sell the raisin at a degraded price and cannot even cover the cost of production, much more survive and can produce the Corinthian grape vines again. From this point of view, therefore, it is clear that this is a very small quantity that could have been made available. We, as a JV, say that the state, because black raisin is over-food and can meet high nutritional needs, could have absorbed this quantity, be it the Ministry of National Defence, to make it available to the military, or the Ministry of Education, to place black raisins on students or the Ministry of Health, to make it available to hospitals. The cost was too small. If it is withdrawn at a price covering the cost of buying the grape, it would be about seven thousand tonnes at EUR 12 million, with EUR 13 million. So it is degrading the costs in the face of the problems it creates. So from this point of view, we say it clearly: why, Minister, have you not gone ahead and the problem is known from March in such a procedure? And do not tell us that the European Union forbids the withdrawal of the grape because it is incorporated into the fruit and vegetable products and not into the applicable grapes, into the grapes. Discipline. Here's a simple answer to what you can tell me. But at least you've made a competition, these various ministries withdraw these seven thousand tons, buy them. Secondly, what measures will you take to ensure that this year's prices, to be given to the producer, cover not only production costs but also leave him an income so that he can survive and meet his needs?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u139	Thank you very much, Mr. Karathanasopoulos. And this question will be answered by the Minister for Rural Development and Food Mr Spyridon - Panagiotis Lebanese. Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u140	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Karathanasopoulos, you know how much I appreciate you as we come from the same region and so we have many common interests and are in common struggles from other ideological starting points. I must say, however, that you have confused me today. Practically, what are you asking for now? Are you asking us to support a commercial business? Is that what you're asking? I've answered too many questions about Corinthian raisin, black raisin. The government's intention is to support it - and I have said it again - this historic, important and over-excessive food product, which is linked to the history of our country, not only production but overall to the history of our country. We from Western Greece know this very well. In this case, at the very first moment, I have been in public - I think - in a direction which you too agree with, but if you are confusing them a little today. We cannot support commercial enterprises, whether they are private - because in this case private companies have stocks - or cooperatives. It's business. Unless the Communist Party now wants us to support commercial operations. That is what we want, whether in this context or in a global price formation framework, which some people are asking for, we cannot do. On the other hand, I have made it quite clear that we will always be there to support producers in reducing their income. So what I think - and I know you are really interested in - you will also agree with us on the basis of the financial data we have in the country, when these issues arise - because they did not come last year, as you know, in the lower prices to producers, so if they arise - the state will stand alongside the producers, as it does in many cases. As far as this part you said is concerned, I am glad to say that we are 'irregulated in relation to our obligations in the European Union', I think you too understand that it is outside our contractual obligations. You may have a different view of the European Union, but I do not think it is based on arguments because you have never answered us where we would find all the money that the European Union is giving us. In any case, however, I have already done what you propose and if you want to help me, that is to say, to support the raisin through public structures, I invite you to do so, to stick with your party and I together, I have already done so and you know it. If you look at the letters I have tabled to the House and the multiple answers I have given, which I think you have read them, you will see that we can together claim this from the structures of the state. From that point on, I think it is unfair to confuse the producers, to confuse society and to enter into a tender competition! We can assure you both through our policies and the tools we have for the Recovery Fund and the Rural Recovery Programme we are here, we have already supported and will always support the black raisin.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u141	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u142	Firstly, I will supplement something to finish with the European Union. 'Left trees' you have said as government that they do not exist, so someone is paying for that money. The people of Europe pay them. It's not the money for free. The people of Europe pay them and mortgage their future because they are directed at specific directions. But let's not open this conversation. Secondly, you have made a contradiction, Minister, in what you said, because on the one hand you say that we cannot support anonymous companies and businesses, and on the other hand you say "let us claim, together with you, the state to buy the stocks of this raisin, of the black raisin, which exists". I say this because you look, Minister, you have referred to state structures and to buy them, but that is a government decision. You can't throw the ball out of here and over there. You must make a decision as a government, recommend it to the Ministerial Council and say "the Ministry of Defence to buy a certain quantity of raisins to meet the needs". We have no problem with that, and we prefer it. But you can't repeat it every second month...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u143	Are you suggesting it for commercial business?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u144	We propose this, Minister, at the moment as a tool that does not solve the problem, in order to support at least the income of producers and on the other hand not to pay for the trade damage that the producers of the MGN would suffer. Why, listen to me, you made the partnerships an anonymous company, your governments. The fact that the Panayialion Union and the other exporters - anonymous companies do not want to take this measure - lies in their competition for who will dominate the market, who will be won. But through this process, Minister, you understand very well that the producers are at the moment lost. And from this point of view, then, we are calling for concrete support measures. You cannot generally say that the government generally supports farmers. What's he gonna say in general? If you see the evolution of the raisin, you understand very well that it is a product primarily exportable and Greek production covers only 2% of world demand, which the Greek Corinthian raisin has nothing to do with either Turkish or California in terms of quality. So this could have been absorbed without a problem. It is not absorbed because of competition from business groups. These are the millstones that break down the producers for who will keep customers abroad, who will make production available abroad. For this very reason, and for this declining course, hundreds of thousands of tonnes produced by the Corinthian raisin in the previous century and supported the entire western and northern side of the Peloponnese, today only twenty thousand tonnes are produced, with a total reduction. If things were good for producers, they would not give up their fields, they would not give up production, because the whole time they go in, they cannot cope. That's why they're abandoning it. From this point of view, you need to say here as a government - yours is how to do this, but you will commit yourself in particular - 'I will make sure that the traders pay this price to the producers, which covers their costs', which is about EUR 2 pounds per kilometre, depending on territorial peculiarities and at the same time also draw an income so that they can live and grow again. Otherwise they cannot cope with the loans and liabilities they have. That's the point. On these two specific issues, I told you to make a commitment to put them to the government, to your fellow ministers, and at the same time to find a specific formula to support the price of the producer. And we say that because we do not want to support any operation. We say that producers must rely on these conditions. The fact that producers depend on business is a capitalist issue and it is not our concern. We want another way of organising the economy and society and you know it very well. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u145	That's familiar, Mr. Karathanasopou. Thank you. Here, Mr Levane, you have three minutes for your dentistry as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u146	I will be very quick, because I understand the problem that exists in Mr Karathanasopoulos's reasoning. I don't want to embarrass him anymore. I will close the debate as follows: We - I told you before and misinterpreted what I said, read what I said in the Minutes - will support the producers. If you get carried away and want to appear as a representative of companies, this is a new strategy for the Communist Party and we are watching it. However, we will not follow you and we will not go into this kind of policy, which, in my opinion, is incorrect and in any case evading our responsibilities. If you want to assist us in this work to support producers, as we have been doing all this time and a half by supporting producers in Greece with the specific financial margins we have, you are welcome to work together in this direction. If you want to get confused at the feet of market mechanisms, we won't follow you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u147	Thank you, Minister. Have a good day to both of you. We continue with the sixth question under number 1021/6-9-2021 of the F' Vice President of the Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. George Lambroulis to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "To compensate all those affected for 100% of the damage suffered by the earthquake of 3 March 2021 in the Larisa and Trikala Prefectures". Mr. Vice President, good evening, and good week. Here, you have two minutes to start.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u148	Thank you, Mr President. The government, following the catastrophic earthquakes in March of this year, 2021, promised with the interventions - and we know that the Minister himself visited these regions - rapid and fair compensation. Finally, it gave a small, limited number, in relation to the applicants, the exceptional aid of 600 euros, and just now, at a very slow rate, payment of paid compensation to a very small number of earthquakes spread over house damage. At the same time, a significant number of home owners in Damasi, as well as in the other villages of Larissa and Trikalon Prefecture who were damaged by the earthquake, were excluded from the payment of both the EUR 600 emergency aid and damage compensation to their homes and homes, on the grounds that the house in the village is not the first home or other excuses. Mostly, however, it was the issue of first home. They are homes, in fact, of people who were forced to go, for example, to Larissa or to other cities to work, that is, their homes - a part of which they were inhabited by the elderly parents - and other homes. The same people who were forced for professional reasons to leave the village, from Damasi, lived this house in the village several months a year. Here to remind us that these are homes that pay taxes in the state, HISPIA, other taxes, municipal fees in the municipalities, electricity bills, water bills and they go by saying. In our opinion, it is therefore unacceptable and completely unfair that these people should not be compensated by the government for the damage caused by the earthquake in their homes. The Communist Party insists that all owners and first and second residences, stores, warehouses, livestock farms which have been damaged by the earthquake must be compensated to 100% by the government. The questions, Mr President, to the Minister for the Interior, therefore, are whether he intends to respond to this fair request to compensate all those affected by the March earthquake, and to 100% of the damage and for what time. Secondly, if the Government intends to proceed with the immediate demolition of the buildings that have been found to be demolished and the transport of boots at the expense of the State and without any burden on earthquakes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u149	Thank you very much, Mr. Lambroulis. The Deputy Minister of Interior, Mr. Stylianos Petsas, will answer. Mr. Pecha, good evening! Good week! You have three minutes for your protology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u150	Thank you, Mr President. Today I am indeed pleased to have this opportunity to speak in response to Mr Lambroulis's timely question. We visited the Prime Minister this morning in Damasi, where we really had the opportunity to see a commitment by the Prime Minister to act. The school which suffered a great deal of damage from the earthquakes of 3 and 4 March was demolished in record time, within six months of the earthquake day and within four months of the completion of the studies a new school was built and today the first bell of the new school year hit, with children in a new and safe school and, indeed, a bioclimatic school, energy class A, which everyone understands how important it is within the time of the climate crisis that we are living in. We have seen smiles today where there was fear and insecurity from the earthquake in the faces of our children and we are indeed very happy about it. It shows that yes, in Greece, it can be done through rapid procedures of this kind when there is a plan and, of course, unity from all, self-government, state and private sector. On this basis, I would like to say that we have given a total of about EUR 15 million to the Region of Thessaly and to the municipalities affected by the earthquakes to repair damage through the Public Investment Programme, but also for social protection costs to those affected. Especially in the case of Damasi, which Mr Lambroulis asks, today the mayor said specifically in his position that he asked us for EUR 1.2 million, which we gave the municipality to pay for social protection expenditure and has already spent a EUR 1,150,000. I mean, whatever he asked us to do and he has gone to those who deserved it. What Mr Lambroulis asks is whether there are others who were not in the framework they were entitled to, where, under existing legislation, they could be covered. And here is a clear answer: for those who are beneficiaries. They're not all. They are the ones affected by the disasters and they took the money just as it was recorded by the municipality. Because you know very well that this is the procedure of the tripartite committees, which is followed by the assistance of the Ministry of Infrastructure. The second part is about demolition. For the first time, the public took over demolition. We have spent 408.800 euros in the Municipality of Tirnavos and on the basis of the demands of the municipalities, we will actually proceed, with money, which will be given by the Ministry of Interior to the municipalities, to demolition and removal of the bags, without taking over the costs of the private individuals affected by the damage. We will always be next to self-government and the citizens, to do whatever is necessary to alleviate their suffering. What remains to be done - and is a commitment by the Prime Minister today - is to speed up the procedures for those who still live in containers. I am talking about a settlement which has taken place in a record time, a container settlement with all the elements of electricity, sewerage, water supply, so that the conditions are as humane as possible, within seventeen days. Nobody's been on stage for more than seventeen days. But for these families that are there, we will move on to the restoration of their homes in order to get into their new homes. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u151	Thank you very much, Mr. Pecha. Mr. Lambroulis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u152	Thank you, Mr President. I listened carefully to the Minister. Yes, indeed, it is true, no one doubts that the school took place in Damasy in a rapid time. But what does that show? The potential of our country, based on the technology there is, based on the scientific potential, based on the workers we have and the wealth of our country, so that such situations are created, catastrophes, earthquakes, or floods and they go by saying or by fires, in good time and quickly to be restored. The school may have happened, but at the same time next to the school, if you saw - I don't know if they were collected, at least eight days ago I toured both in Damasi and in Mesochori and in the other villages of the Municipality of Elassona now - the situation is disappointing. Of course, the people themselves have been experiencing a truly tragic situation, especially those who have been living in the houses for six months now, who have actually told us, in fact, that they are hopeless, that they do not see - just to say so - in a rapid time to restore their homes so that they can house them. It is now time to add, in this whole situation created by the earthquake, to the agricultural production of the region and the wider region, and the damage from hail, from drought and from flooding, thus having an impact on whatever income the inhabitants of the whole region could have, but not much more to the ones affected. The core of the question, if you would like, beyond the issues of EUR 600, which are not all of them, is not, Minister, all of them. You may say that we have "disbursed, given" etc. So much money, but somewhere he's digging, somewhere there's a problem. Why? Do we have any reason to lie to you? Here, for example, Damasi: Forty demolitioners are homes from last Saturday, if I'm not mistaken, it started, from what I was told, to demolute the first house. Of course, demolitions did not move forward, as they should, at a faster rate, nor the removal of booby from the homes that have fallen. Not only in Damasi, but also in the other villages, in Mesochori, in Ammouri, and it goes on to say, where, apart from the risks of any accident, there are risks to public health for so many months. Also, the studies have not gone ahead, while the compensation announced, namely housing, reconstruction, 80% state funding and 20% interest-free loan, is not enough. They say it themselves, both through the mechanics and the calculations they do, so that the wounded need to put their hand deep in their pockets as to whether and when they will make their homes. Second example, Mesochori, which is in the Municipality of Elassona, which was affected by this: thirty two houses for ninety people. Just a few days ago five licenses were issued, five demolition permits for thirty nine houses classified as'red', i.e. demolished. And, as the chairman of the local council has denounced, there are delays in the payment of compensation, what we say the EUR 600 for the constructions, and it goes on to say. However, see: a prerequisite for the EUR 600, for these allowances and for compensation for the damages’ construction - we are now discussing the building of the new home, even through lending, of this 80-20% etc. - She's who? Be a first residence. The core of the topical question is that many of these houses are second home, because the owners of this house have as first home another house, which is in Larissa, Elassona, in other areas or urban centers near Damasi or around Damasius, Mesochori and go by and say. So from the outset they are excluded from any other subsidy and much more from the possibility of using those funds that can be made available. We want this to be solved, to include those who are considered as second homes - so to speak for short - under the conditions of first residence so that they can be helped, so that they can rebuild their homes and their lives. Because you said the total amount, I mention a specific example to the Municipality of Elassona with details eight - nine - ten days ago. Of the two thousand hundred and sixty applications made for the 600 euros hundred were excluded, while of those approved, several still have not received it. Based on the evidence - ten days ago, which we were given by the municipality, only three hundred and seventy-four of the two thousand sixty applications, namely 17.5%, have taken 600 euros, six months later. So what's the matter here? The municipality? The periphery? They have responsibilities, of course, like the government that is supposed to exercise supervision, control and so on. Government, district and municipalities have huge responsibilities, and they know that, people and especially those who experience this situation and reside in the housewives see it. The first phrase that they told us was that "the fox then passed, they erased the publicity lights and they've forgotten us". Moreover, they are taken from PPC by the municipality to pay for a power they do not consume, but they pay the fixed amount. Seventy euros a grandparent told me seventy-five, seventy-six years old. It's gone and people pay for it, and that's why nothing has happened. And a lot more. Living conditions: The houses may have entered, but this is a temporary solution to find a roof, so that people can serve basically, in the elementary. However, it comes winter and is not going to go ahead with the reconstruction of their homes and the rapid restoration of those who have been termed "yellow", so that they can get in, organize their lives, continue their lives in the area. We say it's a political matter. Of course, it is deeply political, because with what these people are experiencing and other regions with earthquakes, with the floods, the fires that we experienced during the summer, they have a state, a government - and governments over time - which deal with all these issues of protecting the people as a cost. As a cost, they're being dealt with. In the face of all these problems, we are calling on the people and the world to strengthen their people's intervention, organisation and racing, both to the government and to the region, but also to the municipalities, for measures to support and rehabilitation, for compensation to 100% for disasters, without conditions and conditions, for full restoration of homes, schools and infrastructure. Do you know that six months later in Larissa they're going to do double shifts? We say that today schools have been opened and well opened, but children are taking double shifts to Larissa, which had to be restored to some schools to enable them to function properly. But then, in March, April, in Larissa, what were they talking about? That the damages will be restored immediately, that everything will be done and that we have now reached the start of the school year.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u153	Finish, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u154	So it is what we say and said and the period of fire: the people will be saved by the people.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u155	Mr. Pecha, you have three minutes too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u156	Thank you, Mr President. On the issue of Elassona and the case of Mesochori, because there has been a debate on this, I would like to refer to the detailed information given by the Municipality of Elassona with the press release issued on 2 September, which explains exactly how many applications were, how many beneficiaries were in Mesochori and what happened with the payment of 600 euros. You know that we have given about 2,650,000 to the Municipality of Elassona - since you have also referred to him -, about 977,000 for the payment of social benefits and the rest for damage recovery, road network, pumping stations etc. We will continue to support for as long as necessary. The rapid payment of sums is always dependent on registration by the three-member municipal councils. We are constantly learning through this process of dealing with natural disasters. I would like to say, Mr Lambroulis, that, as you have seen, we realise that there can be another rate of payment of the first social costs of EUR 600 and that of the payment of the money for the construction, which is linked to the opinion to a second degree by the relevant department of the Ministry of Infrastructure, the IAEA. What did we do? With the recent experience of the destructive fires we proceeded with the act of legislative content of 13 August, which was then ratified by law, on the new platform, where we integrate housing assistance and social protection provided by the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Ministry of Interior respectively, in order to quickly take the money to the beneficiaries, without any other bureaucratic procedure, but only with one click. This is what we did by seeing the experience of the previous time period: "INO", the case of the earthquake in Thessaly, the case of the earthquake in Samos, the case of the floods in Evros. We are constantly learning from this process and we are trying to make the system faster and more effective. So on the issue of delays, we are responding to the practice and what we are doing. The theme of the first, second residence, etc. This is another issue which does not concern the payment of compensation to the existing institutionalised framework, but something else. What you are proposing is a broader political dialogue. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u157	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-13-S1-commons.u158	With the consent of the House at 18.57 the sitting for the next Wednesday, September 15, 2021, at 9 a.m., on the subject of this House's work, parliamentary scrutiny: a) An anniversary report by the President of the meeting on the International Day of the Republic and b) Topical Questions.
