ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent debate on Friday, 4 June 2021. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question raised by Mr Nikolaos Igoumenidis under number 828/31-5-2021 is a timely question by MP Heraklion of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Renewing workers' contracts in the social structures of the Region of Crete". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by number 829/31-5-2021 of the current question by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: 'Let the blind retired people be denied injustice'. 3. The 815/31-5-2021 topical question by MP II of Mera25 Mr. Konstantina Adamos to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, entitled "Tables of assistants of teachers". B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question under number 823/31-5-2021 was raised by MP B2' West Athens Division of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The installation of wind turbines next to the settlements of Eagle and Nymphraeus in Florina in a forested area." 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, entitled "Ioannina, the wet Tsamara is hidden in the papers to be cemented". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Question No 4512/24-2-2021 by MP Heraklion of the SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance Mr. Charalambos (Hare) Mamoulaki to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "What are the conditions for privatising the former US base in the Yorks of Heraklion Crete?" 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The report by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr Vassilios Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs on the subject: "The unfavourable situation in the Annex to the Disabled Persons of Lassithi due to shortages in medical and nursing staff and the difficult conditions for workers to face in the midst of a COVID -19 pandemic." Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the debate and vote on the principle, articles, amendments and the entire draft law of the Ministry of the Interior: 'Election of Municipal and Regional Authorities'. Mrs Skondra, Member of the New Republic, has the floor for seven minutes. Here, Mrs. Skondra, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today the institution that is a key cell of democracy, the municipality, the community and the region. Our theme refers to people who serve daily and close to the citizen from the smaller village of Greece to the Constitution of Athens, mayors, presidents, municipal and regional advisors, regional directors. This is a very important bill from the Ministry of Interior - congratulations, Minister! - which will decapitate local government from the deadlock led by the law of the SYRIZA, creating piles of problems and making it difficult for local and local authorities to function themselves. SYRIZA's electoral model, the simple analogue, created differences between the citizens' choice in the face of a mayor or regional mayor and the majority in their municipal and regional councils. This has evolved into a brake for decision making, since mayors and regional directors, elected municipal and regional authorities in many cases are in a special hostage regime. They are unable to implement the policies for which they were committed and finally voted on by the electorate, while depriving the citizens of works and services they should enjoy. Knowing that his party has no power in local communities and lacks self-government, Mr Tsipras has consciously chosen to establish a mere analogue that favours intergovernmentalism, conflict, bargains and transactions, which hampers the elected mayor or regional ruler so as to degrade the local rulers themselves, but also the institution itself. In other words, the familiarity of SYRIZA, "any man I do not control the dissolution". Ladies and gentlemen, the Mitsotakis government, loyal to its pre-election commitment, introduces a radical incision to the functioning of self-government, an integrated reform that combines vision with realism, transparency with functionality, the service of citizens with good administration. Having listened to the concerns and suggestions of local government representatives, we restore regularity, rationality and governance in municipalities and regions. These changes are welcomed by the self-government and by establishing a stable five-year electoral cycle, we ensure that their election programme is implemented. Ladies and gentlemen, self-government, through a relationship of confidence and cooperation with the central government, must offer citizens quality services and integrated solutions that will be implemented rapidly. The community and the municipality are the democratic institutions that are closest to the citizen and are a key point of day-to-day contact. There is directness and accessibility for all the issues that arise where we live and act, the need to decide and act almost automatically. And let me know very well, since I served this key institution for eight years. For movements, cleanliness, lighting, infrastructure, squares, playgrounds, services, culture, water supply - and not only - direct actor for the creation, care, rehabilitation and what else arises is local self-government. These are in normal circumstances, because we have disasters, snowfall, floods, earthquakes, which again self-government is at the forefront. We saw this recently in Karditsa, when during the 'January', but then until today, and for a long time, the government has provided funds, but the municipal authorities and the region are on the ground for the reconstruction of the region and for the resolution of the problem of each individual citizen. We therefore need strong and effective self-government, which first-hand knows local issues and has the potential to resolve them. We must - and that is what we are doing - provide them with an integrated and realistic framework of operation. In the formulation of the arrangements introduced by local government representatives, the first reason was for it. The main provisions emerged from a fruitful dialogue with the institutional representatives of the OTAs, the CEDEFOP and the EIA, as well as hereditaries from Acoustic Opposition and support the changes that we have been promoting today, unlike colleagues of SYRIZA, with what was taking place in the adoption of your own law, simple analogy, where the reaction was universal and supra-party, but of course left you indifferent. Ladies and gentlemen, we are adjusting the level of election from the first round to 43%. We set 3% for the right to elect a consultant, in line with the terms of the national elections. We streamline the number of members in the municipal councils of municipalities and regions on the basis of specific population scales. The framework of election and non-attached candidates shall be streamlined. We ensure the election of 3/5 members of the boards to the winner of the election. In communities with a population of up to three hundred presidents, the first cross, independent combination, is elected from the first round. And here, Minister, I would like to tell you my opinion, that will apply to the presidents of all the local communities. They are small closed societies, where the role of the president has other dimensions and his choice goes beyond the political features, as he directly serves the village and his forgiveness, overcoming the close duties of the president. The new law, by abolishing the simple proportionality, enables the municipal authorities to effectively manage and assess them objectively, as the pretext for a majority blockade is eliminated. The New Democracy has since taken over the governance of the country, despite the crises and challenges it has faced, firmly demonstrates that it is implementing responsible, serious and realistic policies. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. We form a state that offers reliable, quick, transparent and friendly services to Greek women and Greeks. We are building up a modern local government with decentralised and substantial responsibilities which will be a vehicle for development and social cohesion. With resources from the "ANITONIS TRITIS" Programme and the National Recovery Plan totaling over 5,5 billion euros, unprecedented amounts for self-government, we follow an integrated and modern plan that allows municipalities and regions to contribute dynamically to the relaunching of the national economy, accelerate regional development and significantly upgrade the living standards of local communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mrs Skondra, and the consistency in time. And now there is the floor for seven minutes for SYRIZA MEP - the Progressive Alliance Mr. Nikolaos Srmalenes. Here you go, Mr. Armachyn, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today you are bringing the House a bill, the draft law on changing the electoral law for the election of municipal and regional councillors, and soon, from what it seems, you will also bring the bill on labour issues. So these two bills, the bill on self-government and the bill on labour, are a great blow to democracy and civil society. "You strike" and self-government and work, "beat", i.e. the two main pillars of democracy. I would like to say that this bill is indeed the 'floorstone' of civil society, because you are launching an unprecedented attack on local societies and on the provisions that you bring, in particular, to local or local communities, you are deterring the participation of citizens and especially young people. In any case, you are reintroducing a "democratic" and "regional" system of local government that has been tested in previous years and has failed. And I really wonder, what do you want with the city councils? After all, with legislative techniques you have also introduced a reduction, very small variations. Instead of 30% in some municipalities, especially in large municipalities, you reduced it to 15%. So what do you want with local and regional consultants, since, in fact, local government is governed by one-persons and the decision that comes out is 'a male authority' or 'a female authority'? Municipal councillors do not need to be involved, as the majority do. And a majority elects in a "goodwill" way, 43% of the electorate elects 60% of the seats. Therefore, municipal and regional councils no longer need any more. You told us that, with the'single analogue', we have essentially dispersed the ability of the municipal and regional councils to run, which is a very great lie, because for the first time with the simple analogue, firstly, we could have an authentic expression of the popular will, as many advisors as were the percentage of each combination, and secondly, it gave the opportunity to the municipal and regional councillors, each and every one of them, to have a role and weight and not to wait for what the mayor and the regional councillor would say. Each member of the municipal and regional council would have a decisive role to play in the decision-making process and, of course, they would be involved with their constituents and local communities. And I ask myself: what does this local government have to do with the concept of local self-government which is a 'cell' of popular power and a 'cell' of democratic participation? This is local government, as it started. It is not the "long hand" of the central administration. When we talk about local self-government, what we mean is that people are self-governed in local societies, they are elected to decide. It does not decide any "final" state and no mayor as a one-faced authority in the name of local societies. So you are completely distorting the concept of local government and leading to the deactivation of municipal and regional councils. You lead to the deactivation of any local initiative, every cultural club, every cinema club, every active citizen initiative in the neighborhood, in the village and everywhere to be able to elect their representative, even on the local council. You do this by abolishing the third ballot, but also by effectively abolishing the entity of municipal or local communities. Because in addition to the responsibilities of local communities, which you make purely consultative and totally secondary, their inability to create a separate vote from the "home" vote on municipal lists cancels all their ability to participate in local things. And this is particularly about young people. In fact, coupled with the fact that young people are being hit by unemployment, unpaid overtime and the eight-hour abolition, young people are being beaten and in local communities that see no future as to their ability to play a role in local things. And the smaller combinations in the "Kayadas" because apart from the camel system, according to which the mayor with 43% takes 60% of the seats, we also have the 3% cutter, and we also have the 150% number of candidates. There, then, those who have the ability to share promises and have "clients" put a huge number of candidates and the other combinations that do not have such possibilities to share ruptures cannot well make a ballot. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So in society there is a multitude of ballots, which can run while the other ballots are of secondary importance and have to leave the middle. To close, in order not to abuse more time, I would like to say this: Mr Vorides, you and the New Democracy, democracy is damage, it is not profit. This is what you broadcast with this bill, canceling every popular and local initiative. And let me, Mr President, come to something last. You are introducing the famous 'digital passport' with amendment. In fact, the government celebrated that it was the first in the European Union to bring the digital passport. You know what the explanatory statement says? It says that it is not a prerequisite for the movement of citizens. In other words, even if you have been vaccinated or have at the same time, as we say, and a seventy-two-hour test, because the vaccinated agent can be an asymptomatic body, as the experts say, when it is not a prerequisite to moving, no one asks you, no one needs it. I make trips to the islands and boats and on planes and nobody ever asks me for anything, not because they know me, but so is it to all other citizens and passengers. It gives you a piece of paper, and you write whatever you want. They're asking if you've run a test and I'm writing "negative" and it's over. One more relentless summer, I'm afraid, ladies and gentlemen, we will pass. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, too. Mr Athanasios Kavvada has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the bill to be passed today in Parliament ensures the sustainability of the municipalities. Law 4555/2018 was designed and enforced with clear and specific purposes by the then SYRIZA government that had already collapsed morally and politically. The aim was to dominate dissolutionary situations in self-government, to make the rule of law impossible for the municipalities and, indeed, with an allegedly mere analogue, since there was not in fact a mere proportionality with two rounds of elections. Why? Because the government at the time knew it had no prerogatives in self-government. The shapes supported by SYRIZA had a low-to-existent influence. It therefore wanted to give them a regulator role so that by 10% they could blackmail the majority, block decisions, transform the rule of the municipalities into a lasting transaction. The result was: In municipalities like Lefkada, the mayor who won the elections has only six seats from the thirty three in the municipal council and has eleven seats the independent candidate supported by New Democracy and who first came out in the first round. Thus, the mayor is necessarily working with two other parties to make decisions and to implement his programme. The then SYRIZA government was devastated in three successive elections, so we reached political change and a new government that had a direct priority in ensuring the rule of law for the municipalities before the new municipal authorities took up their duties. And that was with the first institutional intervention and the relevant legislative initiative of the Ministry of the Interior, giving powers to the Economic Committees of the municipalities. Now, the government brings this electoral law into political neutrality in time, contrary to SYRIZA, which had changed the system ten months before the municipal elections, even bringing an amendment to the "supply" of certain municipalities three months before the elections. This new electoral law that ensures the rule of law and the functioning of the municipalities was a pre-election commitment of the government adopted by their vote. It comes as a follow-up to the largest financing programme ever designed and implemented for the self-government of a total of EUR 5.5 billion. The new electoral law enables the mayor and municipal authority to be elected even from the first round at 43% plus one vote and ensures that the first one will have a majority of 3/5 on the municipal council. Those who say that these are unconstitutional apparently ignore two decisions of the Council of State adopted in 2009 and have made a clear statement in favour of constitutionality. The five-year term of office of the municipal authorities shall be restored to give them sufficient time to carry out a project. The final date for drawing up and submitting the combinations and candidates shall be 31 August of the year of the election. 10 September of the same year shall be the final date for the declaring the combinations and the candidates. Why is that so? It is so that there is the possibility of full control of electoral expenditure and candidates being acquainted with the electorate in good time. The institutional framework for election blocks and irregularity shall also be updated, in accordance with the comments made at the consultation stage. These are, therefore, institutional reforms. Of course, there have also been interventions by the government that have strengthened the municipalities - and indeed, in the midst of a pandemic - with hundreds of millions of euros. Ladies and gentlemen, the experiment of mere analogous to local government has failed, and I think this has been a very good rehearsal for what would happen in the country if we did not change the electoral law for national elections as well. The prospect of long-term integrity by inability to form a government is only one negative. The other negative version would be a coexistence not on the basis of programming agreements which the citizens would have approved, but on the basis of the need to avoid chaos and anarchy. In this case no party could implement its election programme and respect its electoral commitments. The whole political system would betray the people's elections, the civilisation itself, and democracy itself would collapse. The Government of New Democracy has taken care to remove these scenarios in time, by changing the electoral law, and by reintroducing a system that ensures governance and today does the same for the OTAs. Ladies and gentlemen, the establishment and implementation of the largest financing programme for self-government, the change in electoral law, and the forthcoming institutional reform by redistributing powers to the triangle 'central government - self-government - decentralised administration' create a new reality. The central government's harmonious cooperation with local government is crucial for the big projects that the country needs, even in view of the unprecedented funding that will flow into the country over the coming years. This presupposes local selfgovernment with strong support for the citizens, with efficiency and direct responsibility for the administration. We are creating a strong, economically powerful self-government which can offer new upgraded and more quality services to the citizen. This positive development for the institution of local government was a pre-election commitment and has the seal of the Government of New Democracy and Mr.Mitsotakis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u7	We are also grateful to Mr Cavada and to him for the consistency in time. The reason is, after the Stepma is settled, the MP of the Change Movement Mrs Nadia Giannakopoulou. Here, Mrs. Giannakopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u8	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of the debate on the draft law being passed, we should all once again bear in mind the crucial role played by the TAs in the operation of the state at multiple levels. It is undeniable that in the difficult years of the crisis the OTAs have kept the country up, not only with their social work, but also by ensuring an elementary regularity in the life of the Greek citizen. With a series of institutions such as social pharmacies, social grocery stores, organised aggregations have been able and played the role of a stirring-up against impoverishment. In fact - and you know that very well, Minister - they were able to do so without an excellent institutional armour, neither the financial self-interest nor the administrative means that the central government should have provided them. Equally important was their contribution to the crisis of the coronary during the pandemic, where with special measures they took to help the weak citizens to improve the operation of the "Help at Home" programme they were able to put back on the treatment of pandemic. In the new era, therefore, the big issue is institutional and financial support for self-government in order to be able to play its development role in a democratic programming process. In our country, the only radical attempts, particularly in the field of local government, have been made by the PASOK governments and we are proud of this. I am referring to initiatives from the 1980s to the last few decades, to the upgrading of an institution which, as you will certainly remember, was essentially in order to gather the garbage or to issue certificates and we were able to speak and give it a voice, we gave it authority, we gave it financial support and room for participation, even in national planning. And then the hereditary prefecture, the "Kapodistria" and the "Kalikratis" were decisive steps towards modernising local government. What happened in the process? On the way, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, instead of carrying out an assessment of the current system by then and proposing improvements - and it was, of course, necessary - introduced dangerous originals, where necessary. And that, because its aim was not a genuine modernist effort, but an attempted micro-political work on the institutional framework to blackmail - to say things clearly and rawly - the presence of the SYRIZA in the first and second degree self-government. Law 4555/2018, as applicable, did not provide a solution to the main problems of the municipalities, did not promote decentralisation, did not strengthen the economic independence and functional self-sufficiency of the self-government. On the contrary, it further strengthened the suffocating control of the central state, as it lacked any reformist incision that touched the central issue of competences and led, now proven for micro-party reasons, to failure to operate the institutions. On the basis of the democratic pretext of the election, local government has been further weakened, while the mayor or district ruler for whatever decision he had to enter into trading and extortion procedures. This is the reality, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, and unfortunately we are - as a steward of this choice of yours - a state of pathogens, which has led us to an even greater depreciation of all the model that has predominantly dominated the last self-government elections in 2019. And we come to today, Minister, and what your government is doing to deal with the pathogen that SYRIZA created with Law 4555. First of all, you come and propose the electoral system from all the other issues of the government that are pending as if it were the only, most important. Of course we must start from there, but here we cannot talk only about it, or like this it gives a solution to all other problems. So instead of that, Minister, the multiplely announced reform of competences by your Government must take precedence over this - did you not tell us? - so-called multi-level governance, unfortunately, it seems that all of this is minor. I think that everyone in this Chamber agrees that the electoral system needs change, yes, it needs reforms that will serve and facilitate the expression of the popular verdict, but at the same time they will also lead to the governance of the Ottawas, which unfortunately is not happening at the moment. Unfortunately, however, the distortions, dependencies, the impasses of governance caused by KLISTENIS, which must not just be lifted, but also maintained in our parliamentary memory in order not to make such mistakes again, are not only resolved by the provisions you bring, Minister. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need some time, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u9	Look, a little tolerance, but not a little time. Just a minute, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u10	Yes, as much as the previous ones spoke. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u11	Let us be a little diligent, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u12	Thank you very much! It is, therefore, unacceptable that the government exploit the mess that SYRIZA consciously caused, to pass to the other end. SYRIZA has done everything in its power to highlight minorities to extortionist regulators of political life, and you come with your 43% order to lead us to administrations, to implementing minority powers. A prerequisite for any honest dialogue is, therefore, that you do not have your ears and your eyes open, but that you can compose and be able, Minister, to give substantial solutions. We believe in the need for a large reform, with a large wave of changes in the state and self-government for a local government standing firmly on its feet. So what is provided for in the provisions introduced with 43%, with the reduction of elected consultants' seats, with the excessive increase of candidates to 150% and other issues that have been raised accurately by our special rapporteur in the committee debate, cannot - how to do so! - to be steps forward, not, of course, measures for a local government that is next to the public and especially to the weakest. We want a decentralised state, we want a new powerful role for local government, we want a framework of clear competence at all levels of administration, so that we do not see either the boulevard of "Media", Minister, or the fire brigade the other day. Did you see all this? Do you intend to do it or whenever such a difficulty comes, a natural disaster will give press conferences to say that 'in the future will we clarify the responsibilities'? Instead of having a communication management of matters, then, do what is the basics, so that we don't have that kind of mess again. Unfortunately, we do not see this possible, unfortunately we all hear you prepare, unfortunately, since 2019, to prepare this new framework and, unfortunately, the Government - and I close with it - seems to continue with SYRIZA's practice on the substance, namely, to use self-government for micro-party purposes. We cannot allow that and we will not allow it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mrs. Giannakopoulou. The speaker of the New Democracy, Mr Constantine Maravegias, now has the floor. Until the Stepma is ready to say, Mrs. Giannakopoulou, the last fire occurred in my own constituency. I don't know where you guys saw the mess because I was day-night there, where you read it, or where you lived. Look, yes, if I preside now, but some things I have to comment on. There has been a great deal of coordination and a great effort of all state actors from the first to the last moment that the procedures will be completed. So we don't have to let go of wardrobes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u14	I would refer you to the positions of my party.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u15	Why do you answer, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u16	I respond because I am a Member of Parliament in the region which has been hit and which has been seriously tackled since the first time. Don't comment on me. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] In order to restore the truth, because Parliament must emit truth and the truth is restored when there is...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u17	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u18	Do you want me to go down from the Chair and get the reason to say it? [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Good. Here, Mr. Maraveya, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u19	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I have listened very carefully to your position in the committee's work. To tell you the truth, you're an excellent lawman. I'm not a lawyer. I'm a doctor. I'm a practical man, and I have my partner, the anesthesiologist, who has been ex-left for years. He understood them in time, and even repeats the phrase: 'when reality conflicts with the Left, the worse for reality' and he has implanted it with me. Why does this phrase matter? Because today, what are we talking about? We are talking about the government's legislative initiative to rectify another damage caused by SYRIZA's institutions. Amongst many narcotic areas Mr. Tsipras left behind, leaving two years ago from power, there was also the area of local government. I recall the results of the regional and municipal elections in May 2019, where there was a total collapse of the SYRIZA and a great failure. And to avoid misunderstanding, of course, there are not only party candidates in the municipal elections. Also, to be fair, all parties may have made party choices which did not go well. But, in fear of SYRIZA exactly this election fiasco, they had already prepared their own answer. Narrating with the simple analogue municipal and regional councils, SYRIZA tripped the new self-government authorities, who, while effectively elected by the citizens, could not command not only fragmented local councils, but also weak critical committees, which were normally able to produce most of the administrative work. So we have had a number of such malfunctions both in the Economic Committees and in the Committees for the Quality of Life of many OTAs. Collective bodies, namely, responsible for dealing with citizens' daily problems could not work because of the minority composition imposed by SYRIZA. And of course, SYRIZA was not bothered by this paralysis in municipalities and regions at all, and that, because it never saw OTAs as public-interest entities, but as a tool for party use, and since he was voted against, he did not care whether or not these tools could work. This, unfortunately, is the logic of SYRIZA for the country so far, because it continues to bet on Greece's failure, believing that it will benefit partyly. Unfortunately, this logic has led you, ladies and gentlemen, to the triumphant defeat two years ago, and the New Democracy Government is now being called upon to find a solution. So today the Ministry of Interior is definitively cleaning this minefield left behind by the government of SYRIZA and restores the electoral system that applied to the OTAs before 2019. Limit of election from the first round to 43%, a limit of 3% for the right to elect a municipal or regional consultant, a three-fifth election of the members of the municipal or regional council in the first combination and, finally, the election of councils or presidents of municipal communities throughout the territory without exceptions. Because, in fact, these are provisions that were dealt with positively by both the Greek Committee of Regions and the CEDEFOP, I believe that this can be an indirect response to the previous colleague, Mr Armalene, who was talking about the 3% threshold. After you have sought, Mr. SYRIZA's colleague, consents and partnerships, why not unite smaller formations and take part in the elections - if you want these partnerships - and get their entry into municipal councils? I'll tell you why. Because in your political DNA and in your history there is that you withstand in the same political space for up to ten people. Once you're eleven, you're splitting up. So what they did not have a positive view of the bill at first was only opposition parties and we still have proof of it, between the gap that exists on the Left and the local communities - what I have mentioned since the beginning of my position - that is, even citizens who are close to you ideologically. Ladies and gentlemen, even in the 2015 elections, at the height of his populist course, SYRIZA remained a party that could not stand alone, falling into the need of Panos Kammenos. This phenomenon is timeless and as it turns out in 2019, it is a syriza's symphony of how the state and society operates. And as your Chief said, you must control the joints of power, otherwise the institutions have no political meaning for you. Institutions have no self-evident value except when they are employed by the party that controls them. That is what we are hearing today from the Qualified Opposition. I have heard, for example, Mr Zachariadis, who described the bill as an attempt by the New Democracy to prevent progressive forces and to set up a blue corridor in self-government. I have heard the other fellow Member and friend, Mr Hatzigiannakis, saying that what scares us is that progressive people and progressive forces can join the OTAs. Not only does this scare us, ladies and gentlemen, but on the contrary, we seek to unite the progressive people. After all, it was this conflict that brought the great change to the OTAs in 2019 and then the political domination of Mr.Mitsotakis. I have also heard Mrs Likolis listing the good news of 'Kalikaratis'. Of course, the point is that in this bill we are not talking about 'KALIKARATIS', but exclusively about the electoral system of the EBRD, and their responsibilities and organisational structure are not generally their responsibilities. So, today, we are not looking again at the Ragosi Act and the unrealistic 2010 forecasts, because, of course, if we were discussing these issues, we would have a lot to say about the problems that this law has caused. And - among us - it would not even like in the Change Movement, which once hosted, as PASOK, Mr Ragosi, but not today, to SYRIZA, which also covers all its translations, not only Mr Ragosi. And he may not finally be covered if he remembered that in 2010, SYRIZA had opposed the "KALIKRATH" and publicly denounced Mr. Ragosi. You will tell me, of course, that we are, what we want to say and we may then be saying other things today to host other people who criticised SYRIZA. You are revizonists and your positions exist to undo them. We know that. We have also heard in the committee and Mr Zachariadis that it has never been so far away from the coalition from Mr Ragosi. So it was a misunderstanding. There has always been, as he said, a deal at the core of politicians. But let's take that as well. Of course, you should have told Mr. Ragosi for a decade ago, so that man wouldn't be exposed so many years before his relocation and continue to go out publicly, humiliating SYRIZA and personally, Mr. Tsipras. You told him on time that it was a misunderstanding, you disagreed with him and, of course, he would have fewer appearances in the four-year period 2015-2019 in order to get you politically. Mr President, it is difficult to find a common place with counter-population, when there is a dominance of occult persecution - that is the point of what I said earlier - and party cynicism. For this reason, the New Democracy is proud to be credited alone for voting in favour of a bill that we are sure will work in favour of local government and its strengthening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, too, for the consistency in time. The speaker of SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance, Rallia Christidou, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u21	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Before entering the essence of the debate today, I would like to turn to the Members of the ruling party, the Members of the New Democracy, particularly those who were first elected in the 2019 elections and just to make them a point: as new MPs, we are given two very important writings. One is the Rules of Parliament and the other is the Constitution. The Rules of Procedure of Parliament, therefore, state explicitly in Rule 66(5) that Members may not personally refer to a fellow Member, nor may they refer to the Bureau of Parliament, except to the House. That is quite right in the Rules of Procedure, for the very simple reason that if you refer personally to a fellow Member or a Member of Parliament, he or she has the right to speak on behalf of staff. Isn't that right? That's right. So I note - because I am here very often - that for some reason, although you are so interested in the institutions and the types and the rules, this rule that is so important never takes almost into account you. Never! And it is not enough that you do not take him into consideration, because obviously you may not just know him - it is good to read him, but it is wrong to read him a little more - the problem is not only that, but the problem is that you choose to refer to colleagues and colleagues of the Opposition when they are not in the Chamber. This, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, is not clever, it is not nonsense. It's cowardice, for me, political cowardice. Just because you don't have any arguments to report, you like to make personal attacks. That's first. And I'm ending up with this because I've had a lot of time. I am sorry, Mr President, but I had to give an explanation. If each of us does not know the personal course and path of every human being, we are not allowed, on the basis of our ethos, to speak to a colleague personally. It's a disgrace and it's a cowardice. I now come to the point that we need to discuss. We are therefore discussing a draft law which is attempting to convey the ultimate vision of cybercracy - to simply Greek the lack of the opposite voice, and above all control by the central state - now to local government. The beginning, of course, was with the legislation on the Ministry of the Environment of Mr.Theodorikos in 2019, but you are now coming to the conclusion of the restrictive measures of the pandemic in the Parliament, not by chance, but to finish your vision and along with the local government. A great deal of democracy is harming Members of the New Democracy, it is not effective, it is not possible to make decisions quickly and to have results, while when they decide less is better, there is no contradiction, there is no control, there is no great involvement, and so there is no information, what was decided, when it was decided by them. This is in the interest of some, of course, but for whom? For everyone's interest is clear that you are not speaking. Are you, at least, referring to the interest of the majority? Enter an over-optimistic electoral system, where the mayor and the district mayor will be elected by 43% or more, with a bonus of sixty seats, instead of a 50%+1 which is valid until now. This, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, is not a majority, no matter what. This election will not have popular legitimacy. In fact, in this way I want, you make the minority take the lion's share of seats, so that the relevant majority will rule against the real one. And such a logic cannot be long-term, as it will not be tolerated by the public themselves, since it will not be represented by them. It cannot objectively do a good job, because a minority is not interested in treating major needs, quite simply because it is not identified with them. This measure, therefore, is clear that it only concerns the perpetuation of power to the detriment of many. The arrest of this newly emerging system probably belongs to you, since we do not meet it anywhere in Europe, where there are proportional electoral systems, similar to what you did not like in SYRIZA, what it had voted on and you want to change it. You claim, within everything, that you are a pro-European political force, but it turns out that you are a party that is disobedient to Western European democratic tradition and your real roots are probably in Kojabasism. That is why, in your legislation, the winner takes it all, along with three fifths of the members of the municipal and regional councils, and at the same time you have decided to reduce municipal councils. No more, then, the adversary, no more necessary dialogue, no more reason for consent. The question is to go through what the primary and regional authorities want, sometimes on the basis of the principle of subsidiarity. It does not matter whether by reducing the representation you reduce social participation, you reduce the public speech and the public presence of social minorities and push more specific social groups on the margin. So you must make decisions. That's the way things have to be done. We're not all equal anyway. In your logic, there is no idea that in a democracy and above all, at local, self-government level, we are all equal or we all have the right to participate in the public. No, of course, we're not all equals anyway. Inequality exists to widen and worsen in the New Democracy. In this sense, 3% set as a limit for the election of a municipal and regional consultant is effectively extinguishing any political differentiation, any minority has the courage to want to deal with commons and, indeed, with self-government. The same applies to the reduction of members of municipal and regional councils. Even for local communities you have taken cycling measures. Among other things, the third, separate polling, is limited to local consultants, so that someone who wants to deal with local government and who is not party to it does not think to try. In particular, this measure will give small communities another blow, depriving them of their autonomy and making them incidentally large municipalities, larger municipalities and mayors' choices for who will ultimately represent the community, while minority groups are disappearing here. You say that you are supposedly interested in not making life down any further in the region. You want, in other words, to keep the youth there and give her stimuli. How exactly will you do this when you exclude local communities from autonomous representation so that they too have a reason for their place, especially young people? How will they decide to deal with commons, after you discourage them from approaching self-government, which is the first degree of involvement and sometimes the most useful to a local society, since people there know and tend to choose the most worthy, not necessarily on the basis of the party, but on the basis of the individual? Now you deprive them of this possibility of no leakage, no variations, reactions. Nothing underneath. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen - and I close, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance - local government is the closest to direct democratic representation. It must work in a way that gives the citizen a say and an active role for what is relevant locally, thus disseminating and building the central authority. And this one with this bill, you're canceling it. Drive local government into centralised structures and offer it smooth and spoiled to an oligarchy of interests and local actors, which is at the same time a social minority. At the same time, you are prosecuting and blocking the most and most respected world from participation in the public, pressing him to be indecent, broker and "on the bench". The answer to these anti-democratic methods, ladies and gentlemen, despite your mid-term filters, you are already receiving it and will also receive it in future, you are already receiving it from the employees of the small and medium-sized enterprises, from the self-employed workers, from the workers of doctors, from the workers of lawyers, from them, from the workers of artists, from the students of the universities, who have been closed up for a whole year. You're not alone in the country. You will not shorten everything to fit into your party measures, so neither will we nor the world that has understood you. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Rallia Christidou. Mr Vassiliou has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u23	Mr President, I'll need ten minutes too. Whatever time you've given the others, I'd like you to give me. I have spent 17 years as a self-government!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the relationship between the Greeks and the local community is forged throughout the centuries, either because of the particular geography of our country or because of history and tradition. From the cities - states of antiquity to the local communities, which organised two hundred years before the revolution of 1821, and from our islands to the Cretan mountain towns, the value of local administration, self-government has been proven over time. Even here, in Parliament, most of us have passed from one or both of us to the two degrees of local government and we are well aware of the special role it has in the governance of the country, but also in the daily lives of the citizens. Furthermore, it is of particular value to mention that, at the time of the information and the interdependence we live, the principle governing major global problems, such as climate change, for example, is 'we design global and act locally', highlighting the important role of local communities in the 21st century. So, knowing the reality of issues, competences, procedures, balances and friction with local government, we can see the deadlock created by the untimely and unharmed introduction of the system of simple proportional representation in the election of municipal and regional councils. Law 4555/2018 created more problems than it was supposed to solve. It has prevented effective administration and has denied the possibility for elected mayors and regional managers to implement the programmes with which they were elected by the people. At the same time, instead of the long consensus, which, according to SYRIZA's arguments, would come lawfully, in many cases, we have noted trends in continued trade between the factions, with municipalities delivered to the mercy of minorities and the problems of the daily lives of citizens running. New Democracy was committed to correcting the mistakes, abolishing the monstrous provisions of Law 4555 and reintroducing the majority system in the election of municipal and regional councils. The first step was taken by Law 4623/2019 which ensured the governance of local government bodies. I would remind you that, as now, in 2019, municipalities and regions not only supported the government's legislative initiative, but to some extent complained about delays. And we come today, where we are called upon to vote on the draft law of the Ministry of the Interior, which introduces a new way of electing municipal and regional authorities. Why now? Because we are in a neutral political period, at a time which is far from being implemented by Law 4555, so that we are aware of its weaknesses, but at the same time, quite away from the next elections of local government, so that there is time required to assimilate the provisions and prepare the services and the candidates. The draft law reintroduces the term of office of five years, starting on 1 January with the elections to take place last October. Other provisions provide for the final date for the preparation of combined training to 31 August. This is very important for the design and preparation of candidates and combinations, in particular, I would say, of those who decide their seat for the first time. There will be no surprises or last-minute decisions. Poverty and effective administration of municipalities and regions by adjusting the voting threshold to 43% and the election of three fifths (3/5) of members from the first combination. In addition, a 3% limit is set for the right to vote. A limit which ensures a minimum level of social and political acceptance of a combination, as is the case in the national elections. The number of members of the Board shall be determined on the basis of the number of permanent residents as reflected in the most recent census. And we come to the very important point for the Greek region of the local communities. The local communities, our villages, are the vertebrae of the skeleton called local self-government. This is where we need to combine two opposing dynamics. On the one hand, the system recognises the municipality as an independent self-government unit. On the other hand, our municipalities now cover large areas that often include a large number of local communities. The opinion of the local community must be heard on the day of the elections and on a daily basis. I think that from the Ministry's legislative initiative, but also from the speeches of the main ministers in the committee responsible and also in plenary, it is clear that the demand for local societies to elect presidents and local councils has been heard. The provisions introduced by the draft law retain executive power in the municipality, as is normal and appropriate, since this is the economic operator. On the other hand, increased expertise is given to the presidents and local councils on matters relating to their local community. To sum up, Mr President, the best argument in favour of the adoption of the draft law is the broad support enjoyed by local authorities, the CEDEFOP, the Committee of the Regions of Greece, the municipalities and the regions themselves, as shown by their contributions to the relevant committee meeting. People who are currently in local government know of the problems caused by SYRIZA's sluggishness and legacy with purposes that dominated SYRIZA's governance period. As many as we have been through local government, we can only support this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u25	We are also grateful to Mr Vassiliou and to him for the consistency in time. The floor now has the SYRIZA MEP - Progressive Alliance, Mr Dimitris Haritou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u26	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Minister, are these the changes that self-government needs as a priority today? Do you think such changes need the municipal authorities that lifted the burden within the pandemic and today are faced with the concerns, the struggles of the citizens, the professional world for the next day, when holes in their budgets are open because of the economic confrontation where you have led them? Gentlemen, your communication game has become noticeable. Every time an anti-democratic, anti-linguistic legislation is introduced, you have the pretext, the alibi, to show it in society. On the pretext of so-called lawlessness in the universities, you legislated on the establishment of the police force within them. On the pretext of the so-called flexibility needed by industrial relations, you are preparing to legislate on the abolition of the eighth hour. On the pretext this time of the cyberneticity of the municipalities and regions, reinstate the old covetous system of their choice and by extension of their operation, as if we and the citizens were not aware how they were governed, how they were managed and what the results were in the lives of citizens. You are, gentlemen, a government that constantly legislates, not by looking at the future, but by demolishing every democratic step that has taken place in this place, in order to turn us back to the well-known centralized client state of the right. In every change, in every democratic section that took place in self-government, from "KOLIKARATI" to "KLITHEN I", you were on the other side. Good morning, as a government, with successive interventions you altered the fresh electoral will of the 2019 citizens, "depriving" essentially of responsibilities for municipal and regional councils, pronouncing the Economic Committees on sovereign bodies in decision-making with serious problems of transparency and control. You did not even let KLITHENIS and his simple analogue be tested, evaluated and judged behaviors, political attitudes, attitudes and pathogens of decades. So you come today to complete the demolition work. By regulating the election of 43% from the first Sunday of the mayor or district mayor, with the bonus of 60% of the consultants, you are falsifying the will of the citizens, since you are giving them 50% more power than they are. You do not, gentlemen, restore rulership, actually restore the old regime of the dominance system, of the one male authority, of the 'one man show', which we have experienced. You do not guarantee dialogue and the necessary social consensus in local things, but you lead to comprehensive concepts of local authority management and the well-known phenomena of arrogance and authoritarian behaviour. Have you forgotten, gentlemen, that in the recent past, you have undermined self-government, that the complexity, corruption, with the investigations that have come to light, that the municipalities have overcome the phenomena of corruption in central power? May I remind you of what electoral system the elections were then? No, of course, with the simple analogue you want to abolish today, but with the system that has given rulership, as you say. You do not want consents, but to "pollution" and to divide society, thinking that your policies that affect the majority of society will become more fragile. Gentlemen of the majority, not in self-government and decentralisation, you believe, or in its locality, in the need for the most worthy, the most capable of being elected in local communities. You were asked by the Scientific Council of the Parliament, why would the list of local councils be uniform with that of the mayor? What do you say? I'll tell you what you're answering with a living example, Minister. Local council of regional municipalities in the Regional Unit Rhodope took the initiative to implement small projects necessary for the citizens of the settlement. But come on, because the local council was not the mayor's like, so that he intervenes and asks for the works to be stopped and everything that was done there. Your settings, gentlemen, who are they rewarding? The worthy of the settlement chosen by the residents or the mayor? It's obvious, gentlemen, who they reward. Instead of strengthening the role of local councils, their right to choose the abilities, even when many settlements are in a state of abandonment, you are strengthening the dependence of small local communities on the will of each mayor. The electoral arrangements introduced today for voting are not about society, only about your own narrow party selfishness. They serve your own good plans to convert municipalities and regions as the windstorms you think they will absorb the vibrations from the displeasure that your policies practice. You did not hide it when you asked the regions in particular to elect your chosen ones. But know that you, too, take responsibility for the results of the acts and policies they carry out. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, have another view of the institution, another view of the role of self-government as the most democratic cell of our society, of the participation and activation of the citizens themselves in the formulation of decisions concerning them, away from the logic of delegation and the rest of voting every five years. We have another concept of creating a collective awareness of the problems and planning of the future of local societies by citizens themselves. That is why we are voting against the regulations introduced by the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr. Haritou. I would ask that the Step be prepared in order for the New Democracy MP, Mr Dionysios Hatzidakis, who, apart from the admiral, is also a mentor of local government. As I know from the path of each of us, the first step of many colleagues has been local selfgovernment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u28	To decorate the Step, I would suggest.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u29	Mr. Hatzidakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr President, for your kind words. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my speech, I would like to say something to Mr Hatzigiannakis. There was a very good mayor. How did he prove his diligence and ability? When he came out the first time, he came out of the second Sunday, because he had a majority, developed his program and was established and conquered. If there was this current system, you'd still be there in the municipality. Minister, the former Minister of Interior, Mr Skourletis, and the Secretary General of the Ministry, Kostas Pulakis, submitted four months before the elections to local government first and second degree the law of mere analogy. A law, which I believe should not make Mr. Skourletis proud, because only suffering brought about this law and many fragile things in its application, as it created decoupling and dismantled local self-government. But what it has achieved is, Mr President, to giggle the so-called political strife. I think I don't need to develop to you in detail what is a political complication. I will only tell you that there have been party agreements under the table, down of the tablet as the former Prime Minister in America said. There were agreements under the support table in municipalities on the second Sunday to transfer party votes to other municipalities in order to ensure the election of certain mayors and districts. Ladies and gentlemen, I am addressing you. You have this tactic and I have seen it apply seventeen years when I was mayor, not in my own municipality, but in many others. You also have a firm philosophy, what we cannot conquer to undermine it and dismantle it. Indeed, you have succeeded in losing money from projects that are not being voted on, while in many municipal councils a climate of war with the majority of municipal councillors being against the elected mayor, who does not have the majority of him, because they believe and believe that if the mayor fails, they will understand the municipality in the next election, that is, your death is my political survival, and that it will be four years with no work. So politically they survived the combinations received by eight hundred, a thousand, a thousand two hundred votes and managed to present the mayor as incompetent. Ladies and gentlemen, I will mention some vulnerabilities of the simple act of proportionality that you have implemented. In the Municipality of Thessaloniki, Mr. Konstantinos Zervas won the election on the second Sunday, with 67% and has only seven municipal councillors from forty-nine. In the new elections, Minister of Thessaloniki, sixteen municipal elections were held and the leaders of thirteen combinations were elected, eight hundred, nine hundred and a thousand two hundred votes. Most of these groups were cultures that were only meant to put someone on the board, so that he would then come to haggle, improperly and not go any work into the municipality. I will give you a second example: Mayor Kavala was elected, dear former colleague, with 63% on Sunday, and his resignation has nine of forty municipal councillors. He was backed by the Change Movement and SYRIZA. He was a sorcerer, Minister, of mere analogy, because he considered - philosophically, like you - that this system could bring new people and new ideas to his municipality. In communication I had - because I am communicating with all mayors - from a perpetual analogist turned into a war, telling me: "Everyone wants to be elected, not to do something, but to prevent the other from doing something." He said to me: "With these minds the municipality cannot move on." Let's go in another case. I've chosen three, but I'll tell you something else. The mayor of Orestiad - take note, Mr Babi, of his misfortune to be the most bizarre and unreasonable steward of their application of a mere analogous system. He is the only Mayor in Greece elected at 50.26% since the first Sunday. It has only sixteen municipal councillors from the thirty-three, i.e. it does not have a majority with that figure, so that the mayor can bring matters one, two, three and four times to trade to get through a subject. Ladies and gentlemen, I have recorded ninety-four of the law. I've written them, and I'm writing them, and this book I'm going to write, I'm going to dedicate it with great respect and love to Mr. Skourletis. Question: Ladies and gentlemen, should we not put an end to this authority of the municipalities, the balloting of municipal councils and the hostage of the mayors? The answer is: yes. And how will this restoration of the arrhythmia, battering and hostage of the mayors be done? The answer is: with this bill. And this bill comes in a completely politically neutral year and not four months before the elections, as you did. This bill is a bill that promotes institutional areas. It's a bill of purely developmental form. If you don't understand, I can develop this for you. But I think you understood it very well. It is a bill that enables the municipal authority to make rapid decisions and to implement its programme. It is a bill that enables the municipal authority to be judged by its things alone. We've got to figure it out. It is a bill that the municipal authority should not invoke that - as an old politician said, not in life, a politician in this Chamber. It is a bill that was a key election commitment by Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis when he was the leader of the opposition officer. And because, Minister, I have heard all these days say that this bill does not have the culture of cooperation and democracy. Are you a little amnesia? Can I freshen your memory a little? Have you suffered a genocide of memory? To go in the last ten years. Where did the partnership end up? May I remind you, ladies and gentlemen, of the PASOK - New Democracy - where it ended up and what did it bring about? May I remind you of your cooperation, your recent experience with the Independent Greeks? May I remind you that they became ministers of the twelve and some of them had taken two and three and four thousand votes and humiliated the institution of the Minister and humiliated democracy and politics with their camels? Such partnerships you want in municipal councils too? Do you want us to humiliate ourselves with our actions and actions? First of all, I would like to thank Mr Theodorikos, with whom I had endless hours of cooperation, Mr Vorides and Mr Petsas, who understood what I have always believed, not myself, because I did not live it, because I was taking rates very high, but for these mayors, who each day spit blood, in order to do the simple and self-evident. To conclude, Mr President, from the experience I have gained in local government, let me tell you that we are ultimately not judged by our philosophical perceptions and political experiences, but by realism, the raw reality, which is no more than the reality of the ruler. Because if you can command and make decisions, then the country will win. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u31	And we thank Mr. Hatzidakis. The speaker of the SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, Mr Dionysius Kalamatianos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u32	Mr President, I would like not exactly the same, but rather the same tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u33	You are right, but I have not seen either side or the other. If you want, let me read to you the time, Mr. Kalematiane. In any case, I'm showing everyone some tolerance when needed and needed. After all, we should - and we should - honor some people. I have now honoured him and accept criticism.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u34	No criticism.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u35	I take criticism too. Mr. Kalamatian, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President. I'm starting with your achievements in dealing with the crime. What did you say in the election? "Declar us, Greek citizens, and in a magical way you will feel safe." That's what you were saying. The doctrine of 'law and order' will be applied. You said crime was going to fall and sleep with open windows. Post-election and after two years of your administration, citizens find that not only did you not keep your promise, but on the contrary your account has collapsed with a stumbling block. Crime has been hit red and threatens unsuspecting citizens. On Sunday there was a contract of death and the murder of a thirty-two-year-old in Sepolis, and within twelve hours we had a contract of death and execution and murder of a thirty-nine-year-old boxer in Vari. These were only the last two incidents in a series of others. Within a month and a half, we have six such a barracks of crimes. Really, do you feel proud that you deceived the Greek people with deceptive promises? Do you remember what you were saying when there was a crime or murder in the government? Do you remember what generalizations you were doing about the lawlessness of generalized and insecurity allegedly prevailing? And with you, of course, we hear the well-known homogenity from the well-known media. Now with all these incidents, which show that organised crime acts uncontrollable and the underworld murders and kills fatality, it's just Wednesday for you. Of course, it turns out that the "law and order", the doctrine known, yours, is linked only to repression and violence especially to young people. While you demonstrate every day that you do not have a plan to deal with crime and you cannot guarantee the protection and safety of citizens, you show particular zeal of suppressing demonstrators and students. While police departments of Attica and important services of the Greek Police who are facing crime are under-represented, you hire thousands of special guards for the Repressor Body. The Prime Minister ordered the process to proceed with the recruitment of a thousand more police officers to the universities the day before yesterday. You found the source of crime! In fact, these are your priorities and citizens are concerned and struggling with your failure to deal with crime. I'm coming to the bill now. You have decided once again to jump into the past, to go back to your failed past. Truly, one wonders about the distortion of words and concepts you are trying. Tell us, Minister, do you really think that it can be a reform, a regression, a return to the past? Can it be a leap in the future to apply old electoral systems that have failed in practice? Can your drunken attack on the existing institutional framework in self-government that stirred ponds? The truth is that you are reintroducing an anachronistic, totally majority system. With 43% the first combination will elect 60% of the advisers, the mayor and the district manager. You are therefore abolishing the moderate proportional system established by the 'CLISTENS'. Remove the first step in a number of wider reforms to self-government that would involve responsibilities, resources, of course, the operational support of local government bodies. In fact, however, all you'll achieve is transactions and bazaars within the same combination. The mayor said something earlier about the opposite. He said that before that, and it will continue to happen now. We have, of course, seen the project. We've lived through it before very intensely. You deserve the vote of the citizens and you strengthen centralism. You are keeping the real will of the electorate. Also, something very important is that you are effectively abolishing the third poll, which allowed thousands of citizens to participate actively in local affairs and you are effectively excluding them from the elections. You exclude people who want to offer to their villages and towns without being identified with the extravagance or personal pursuits of the candidate mayors. You are effectively extinguishing the self-functional operation of local communities. You must oblige the candidates to join a municipal combination, to depend on the central result of the elections in the municipalities. You effectively drive the villages, especially mountainous and remote, to further desertification and abandonment. If you move a little away from the narrow limits of the urban fabric, you will face, Minister, with a harsh reality: Destroyed villages, damaged road network, nonexistent services. Those who put candidates for the local councils did so to offer out of hand and love for their country and village. All of them now what are you talking about? We don't need you, you're unnecessary. But in self-government, you know that no one has left. Really, Minister, why do you choose to alter the popular will by requiring the mayor to choose and not the citizen who will represent him in the community? Why are you turning Community advisors and community councils into national mayor's watches? You obviously don't answer us. You haven't given a convincing answer. But give a convincing answer to the Scientific Service of the Parliament asking you specifically. You saw it, Minister. I read precisely: 'What is the legitimate purpose justifying the compulsory electoral cooperation of the candidate for municipal co-operation with a municipal combination and the exclusion of the possibility of submitting independent candidates?' That is what Parliament's Scientific Service is asking and so far you have not given a convincing answer. Furthermore, you are reducing on average 20% the number of consultants in all regions, large municipalities, but also in the majority of communities. Come and say it clearly that your aim is to deal with common and especially local government as few as possible. That's what you're aiming for. That's what your choices show. You obviously have an allergy to every unrelenting and independent voice or view and you prove this at every opportunity. With the bill you seek to limit pluralism to the institutions of local government and to bolden the culture of partnerships, partnerships and understanding. In fact, when you are putting rulership against democratic representation - representativeness, do you not understand what you are doing? Do you not realize that in order for there to be real democracy, these two concepts cannot be contrary? Only complementary can be, like transporting containers. Minister, you should have known for so many years that rulership for it to be effective must have democratic guarantees and social control. Real democracy seeks to involve the many in the electoral process, not their exclusion, seeks to genuinely represent the will of citizens in governance, not to limit it. Unfortunately, you choose the leap in the past. But you cannot escape the harsh criticism of the citizens who are being informed and reacting to your methods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u37	And we thank Mr. Kalamatiano. The speaker of SYRIZA now has the floor - a Progressive Alliance, Mr Theodores Dritsas.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u38	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear and respected Admiral, dear mayor, dear Mr. Hadjidakis, you have described your experience and your opinions very much, but I am sure, because I have this experience, that for many decades, a centralized dominance of the duties of municipal authorities such as those described we have met all and all very often. Especially at the time of bipartism on the Piraeus City Council, in other municipal councils, I saw the opposition, when it was the Right, when the PASOK was, to care only about how it would destroy the mayor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u39	Isn't that what I said?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u40	So it's not the simple analogue, my mayor. It's not the simple analogue. It's other causes. And the left of 3% that I was at that time - and then we went a lot higher with "The LIAMAN OF AGONIA" and more - we were trying to put essentially programme issues to the front of the city, the minority that Mr Vorides wants to throw on the useless, the margin and the discourse. It's not like that in self-government. For decades we have a system of dominance, centralised and totally failed, inefficient, with reduced expectations of citizens towards self-government. I will not raise issues at times about the fact that they are from the institutions very high in corruption, complicated, anyway. What are these arguments, then, that mere proportional deprivation of municipalities from being able to rule or to find ways? Apparently, simple analogue is a difficult story, he needs education. The tradition of the political system in Greece is not that, because centralism is for the few. The central state is for anti-population policy, it is for society on the sidelines, so that everything can be done without control and clearly and unambiguously. Simple analogue wants education both of the municipal authority and of the citizens and of all! And it couldn't be done in a few months. Do not underestimate the law of Panos Skourletis, even if you can have any criticisms. From this point of view, the issue that comes in this way is not only that it increases the election rates and forms this curious 43% to have 60% municipal councillors, the completely outrageous, the similar bonus and the completely undemocratic, is that it reduces the number of municipal councillors. Why is that?, the number of municipal councillors, impairing rulership? Pulls out living forces in the city, with a minority voice, yes. Some might come in with purposes. So what? We have a democracy. The power of democracy is precisely that. Don't take your personal example, Mr. Mayor. You are indeed a successful mayor, but you are one of the exceptions. You're not from the rule. And from this point of view, let us look at the problem differently. I am pleased that some legislative improvements have been made with regard to the number of municipal councillors. There was a consensus and an effort to the Piraeus municipality, MPs, municipal authority, of everything. It is not possible for the third city in Greece and with the first port to reduce the number of municipal councillors. It has also been partially restored, but in any case, it is positive. What is self-government, ladies and gentlemen? Is this the long hand of the state, as Nicos Armalene said? Is the state administration? But then we should abolish the first and second degrees of self-government and stay in decentralised if it is the local government. There is tradition of self-government around the world and in Greece, with all its husks and problems. You know, at the beginning of the 20th century Piraeus Municipal Theatre was built with plans and supervision by the director of the technical services of the Municipality of Piraeus of the architect Lazarimou. Is anyone aware that a municipality in Greece has this possibility today? The most important buildings of modern architecture were designed and built with the supervision of the architect Tsagri - like the "Hi Life" in Piraeus, who is now in the news - director of the administrative departments of the Municipality of Athens. And Lazarimos also designed the extension of the port of Piraeus, which was then a municipal port. This tradition exists! Municipal councillors of the level and prestige of Nikiforos Britakou. And then both the war and the Transmigration Left supported local government in every way! And Skourletis did not bring the law of mere analogy to the purposes that various New Democracy Members have set, but because it is a value principle, a programming principle, a left-wing proclaimer for years. In that direction, I will tell you something. In Europe you want to say that you are hundreds, more than six hundred, seven hundred municipalities, but also many regions, each year for next year, democratically, involving society, for the municipality's participatory budget and the participatory technical programme. Because self-government is not a state authority. It's another thing as an institution. Only neoliberal capitalism and the centralised anti-grass system want centralised local government. And it's another thing that has nothing to do with self-government. Participating budget and participatory technical programme, where citizens are involved, participate in chambers, clubs and choose together with the municipal authority, for example, if we give the schools the weight, if we give the streets, if we give the golf clubs, if we give them anywhere else, based on the needs of society, but they have a budget! After so many decades of dominance-centre system, municipalities do not have a budget. Over 60% of the funds are nil and they find the way to disburse a sum, they put 1 euro. How are you going to make a participatory budget and participatory technical programme, when you do not have the municipality's selflessness to have a real budget before it begins planning the year? That's self-government. That's not the stuff you're telling us. I conclude with the amendment to the Greek, this famous number of 908 and a specialist to 89 from 28-5-2021 by Mr Staikouras, Mr Georgiadis and many others. I am not going to comment on the whole amendment. In Rule 7, ladies and gentlemen, something unprecedented and outrageous is being introduced. First of all, it refers to declassifying maintainers, which are already characterised by a ministerial decision, without any procedure either by the CSM or by boards or anywhere. With a ministerial decision! And then it says that they are not kept in a minister's decision again! And that's not it. They are constructions in the Greek enormous importance, which were able and rescued by this process. And now, in a socket shop, literally socket shop, and these are archaeological sites, the government comes with an amendment to do the outrageous! How can you accept that? To withdraw this amendment completely. And I would point out that among the archaeological sites, the buildings that have been characterized in the Greek, are the facilities of the National Piraeus, which is fighting this historic association of Piraeus, against all the interests of the city - I am Olympiacos, but it is not possible to honour the history of the Nationality - which has become able to survive and now they are abolishing it! Uh, how is this government now going to legislate in this way, Minister, in the name of the central state, in order to get through everything you can to be clear? That is why clearing up the accounts of the night, Minister, is also about you and all the ministries. It's not a gang cleanup, it's not just the shooters, it's not the victims, it's the ones that put them in. And those who put them have workers and those who put them into trafficking interfering with drugs, interfering with cars, intervening with a bunch of illegal black money laundering activities.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr. Dritsa.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u42	It's a German social, economic, everywhere. They are not "on the night to clarify its accounts, won will die, and we both win", as published months ago by a valid reporter who reports the Ministry of Citizen Protection, that they are thoughts on the staff of the Hellenic Police Department, the Athens Police Department and the Ministry, "we can eat each other and finish." It's not like that. Here, therefore, the Greek society and the Greek economy have been at risk since the night.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr. Dritsa, but I don't see any protests now, they did.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u44	I'm done, Mr. President. And leave the purposes with which you really poisoned Greek society and won the elections and now show your true face. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u45	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u46	Mr. Hatzidakis, wait a minute. Do you have anything personal?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u47	Mr. President, he mentioned...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u48	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.. Explain why.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u49	I want to return to Mr. Dritsa the good words he said. I'm not, Mr. Dritsa. How did you say so? - the exception of the rule. There are other mayors I honestly tell you were better than me. Don't blame them!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr. Hatzidakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u51	The Rules of Procedure, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u52	The Rules of Procedure, that's right. You're right, you're right. I call on Mrs. Fotio to speak for seven minutes. Following Mr Barkas' request, the Rules of Procedure will apply, because that is the case. I don't know if you want me to read the times before and no one has interrupted. Now I will interrupt, because you are indeed right, I recognise my mistake, but also your fairness. Here, Mrs. Fotio, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u53	Ladies and gentlemen, this bill brings with it a caricature of electoral law on local self-government unique at European level, a system of super-democratic elected mayor and regional authority with 43% of the votes and gives them a loot of 60% of the reduced seats of municipal and regional councils. Many wondered where you found the magic number 43 and why you matched it to 60% of the reduced seats. I would say that it is a straightforward projection of the current electoral law of the national elections, namely the New Democracy with 39% and something of the vote today owns 52.5% of the Members, fifty-eight seats. If you had 43% of the votes, you would have a hundred seventy-eight-eight-eight-eight-eight-eight-eight Members, 60% of the seats. So simple, so tested model! You didn't sit down and think about it, we know you did it. Why don't you extend it to local government? They have been identified by the Members of the SYRIZA and the Change Movement - I remember Mr Kastanides - the irrational election results that will appear between the first and second Sundays in the municipalities. He'll laugh and cry, of course, the spooky goat! You don't care! However, this electoral model that does not require consensus is paid expensively for two years now when you are governed by the "medium" of the absolute majority of the Greek Parliament. So without consensus, you operated the second and third waves of the pandemic, resulting in twelve thousand dead seven months, with Europe's greatest useless lockdown and the third worst recession in the Eurozone. Without consensus, dialogue and transparency you set up the proposal for the EUR 32 billion for the Recovery Fund, binding the future of the place with proposals from the past that threw us on the rocks. Without a consensus you voted for the bankruptcy law, without a consensus you bring the anti-corruption law, without a consensus you voted on the Pecha list. Woe! Without consensus, you illegally commissioned your own children! Without consensus you are voting anti-democratic and anti-constitutional laws that serve the interests of a parasitic elite, in which you are paying bills for your election. And without consensus you are feeding the party - perfect state of the most anachronistic, dangerous right-wing government the place has ever known! What can you do with consensus? You have both the knife and the melon that the majority law of the House gave you. That is why, with certainty, you reject all the amendments to counter-population, and then you will be applauded with substantiated hypocrisy and courage that SYRIZA does not want consent. You consent to accepting decisions that have been taken. Today, are you harnessing consents to the self-government level, because they do not allow the reproduction of the rosé and the expansion of the party army at local level, to restore your model of the party-major, which ensures that it is continuously re-elected by means of the dispersal of public money into 'vitrine' projects - and to remember the 'big walk'? - awarded to independent private and private companies. The drafting of the law of national elections in self-government obviously also imposes 3% on the exclusion of those who do not get 3%. You know that regions and municipalities are negotiating directly without state mediation the funds of the NSRP and managing huge resources, such as the national budgetary resources of the Ministry of Interior and now of the Recovery Fund. This money and the demolition of citizens through them is what you are interested in. The status of a client-party state that is passed through the central state to local communities is the objective of this electoral law and in this process, I claim, is a big obstacle. However, there are also a great obstacle to local communities expressing the different regions' priorities within the same municipality, which reflect the great disparities that exist between citizens, which form great consensus that their daily lives dictate to them. It's dangerous for you to have this third ballot, so you're removing it! The obligation of a note to cover 80% of the municipal communities, the increase in paradox and huge lists - showcases of party power - but not only - and, at the same time, the creation of the 'good day' of party armies and customer relations, that is the whole logic. At the same time, you rule out any smaller party to participate. I think the bill is extremely dangerous. It sends out a clear signal to the citizens that it has no point in dealing with commons, that politics is not a citizen's job, but a politician's job. That is the aim of the bill, the alienation of the citizens, their resignation from claiming a good life in our country. The intensity invoked by the law of SYRIZA is the propagandaist dictionaries. In cyberdynamics you did not give any opportunity to be tested in life. From the first day you were elected you cancelled SYRIZA's law, altering the result of the self-government elections with the Theodorikou amendments. Consents, fear. Active and participatory citizens are afraid! They don't pass the Pecha lists. But these citizens are being raised today and creating alliances not only within the municipality, but also within neighbouring municipalities, which you have seen recently, Mr Hatzidakis, on the coastal front. They create dangerous consents and with right-wing municipal and regional advisors. You fear the participation of citizens in the common, the alliances and the consents that this participation creates. However, this will 'take you', precisely the ones who will 'give you'! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, after the May 2019 elections, all Greece knows that SYRIZA did not benefit from the electoral law it brought. On the contrary, the New Democracy has benefited. The major objective of SYRIZA, however, was to break the vicious circle of "plenipotentiary" and "democracy" and to create a culture of consensus that would express the interests of a large majority of the citizens. You're shaking the consensus. And this electoral law will be passed without consent. But you should know that this will evolve into your political boomerang. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u54	Thank you to Mrs Fotio and to her consistency in time. And now I will give the floor for three minutes to the Secretary of State for Digital Governance, in order to be placed on matters within his Ministry's competence, namely, the amendment, number 907 and special 88. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in Article 4 of this amendment there is a regulation concerning the Ministry of Digital Governance and the supervised bodies. This regulation enables the Ministry of Digital Governance and the supervised bodies to be extended to an earlier provision, so that at the time of the coronary period the population can be served and that there is the possibility of a remote service for both citizens and businesses, to create, by way of derogation from the relevant provisions, computer works which could provide the services which were necessary at the present time, without requiring the natural presence of the citizen in the various public guises. As you well know, this has been carried out to a very large extent and is currently under way and new projects relating to both the vaccination process and the self-tests process, as well as the process of now the certificates issued. We therefore call for this possibility to be extended until 30 September, and we hope that there will be complete normalisation and that there will certainly not be a risk of pandemic. I therefore ask this House to extend this possibility to the Ministry until 30 September. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Minister. Mr Nicholas Manolakos has the floor for seven minutes. Here, Mr Manolakou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, our Government believes in its election commitments today brings this bill to a vote, which restores local government to the classroom, which had been disturbed in the previous elections with the proportionality of SYRIZA and had in many cases led to a dead end to municipal authorities. There is no doubt that it is a failed system, as majorities rather than work towards the programme for which they had been voted on by the citizens have been lost in the translation of the convergence of minority views. This bill expressly and clearly restores the ability to rule on municipalities and regions by abolishing SYRIZA's simple analogue, which only caused delays and problems to local government. And what's coming now and SYRIZA supports? That the government brings the bill to avade the 'blue' mayors in their re-election. And one question is reasonable: in Greece, there are only mayors present in the New Democracy? And why wouldn't the same apply to the rest of the mayors? Ladies and gentlemen, I must tell you that SYRIZA does not stop surprised me. Beyond the permanent escapade "we were meant to do it, but we did not do it" - which has become a joke anymore, as if they ruled one, two years and not five - I am also impressed by the convenience with which they use words charmingly, I would say, of the usual vague meaning, such as "collectivity", "difficulty in democratic processes", "necessary shocks", "collecting democratic forces and progressive people". And that, ladies and gentlemen, does it in order to achieve two objectives. The first is the dividing line. We are the democratics, the progressives, the philosophers and towards you, the fascists, the conservatives, the enemies of the people. For me, ladies and gentlemen, such divisions nowadays, especially in a country that has experienced a destructive, particularly bloody civil war, are incomprehensible and unacceptable. This rhetoric must finally disappear. We may have different ideologies, but thank God democracy allows us different views and political confrontation with clear positions and arguments is legitimate and useful. The second objective is the pursuit of incompatibility in forming the political process, when circumstances do not favour the Left. Take an example of the model you legislated on. It requires synergy, consensus and understanding. No one disputes that these are nice words. But when there is no evidence of this, what happens? Do you forget that in local societies there are peculiarities, sometimes and fiercely political passions, controversy of the past, many personal contours and many others, which when the law allows it, lead to delays and block decisions? Then, then, democratic ethics and shocks go for a walk. And I wonder: Is that what you want to achieve with simple analogue, non-normality? Ladies and gentlemen of the Officerate, your tactics in the time you have ruled for now is far from the famous phrase of Thucydides "We are dealing with eunuchs and philosophers without bullshit", that is, we love the nice one, but we are simply philosophing without being soft, blooming. And the fact is, your slander was called a government. You see, the administration needs work. It's not just philosophy. And you years on the benches of the minor opposition, you were accustomed to philosophy. And if I don't completely blame you, only in one case you haven't shown any enthusiasm. In the "buffet" of the "North" Neighbourhood. That's where you scrambled! What made you so hasty? Who have forced you to act contrary to your pace and to become the ‘ minds’ when so many different governments have avoided it? And the nicest you know what it is? Now you give up because we're getting late in our relationships with your "baptism"! After you've forced us to accept the inherited agreement, now you have the nerve to move the finger! Ladies and gentlemen, I am closing this small parentheses and returning to the bill. I conclude that it is an urgent act to free majority groups from the blockades imposed by the proportionality of the previous law. I am voting for the bill and so am I asking you to be misled by many self-government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u58	We too thank Mr Manolakos and the consistency of time. I would like to invite the SYRIZA MP to the Step - the Progressive Alliance Mrs Anna Vaguena for seven minutes. Here you go, Mrs. Vaguena, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr President. I'll try to be in time. If it takes a minute, please don't interrupt me at that time, 'cause I'm losing my heart. There are new things coming up all the time. Otherwise, I wanted to start. I shall now turn to my colleague with the baptism. Will you baptize it when the deals come here? You won't vote for the agreements, will you? Let's see why, I know, we forced you to baptize! Let's see what happens with those "buffalo" when they come here and how many will apologize for the way in which you fooled the Greek people in order to get the rule! Apart from everyone else! I will say a few words about the speech by comrade Dritsa on 'no' of the night. You said this bill came to bring order and law. It's all about class and law you have to do. Only the 'nobles' of the night cannot you touch and bring them to order and law. Nor do you catch the drugs that break down the center of Athens! Go out and talk to the citizens not only in the Metaxoglou, but also in Thesios, in Agios Panteleimon, all over the center of Athens! And if there are photographers, let them shoot me openly, if that's the problem, that's when I'm talking to the House! Do you know what a proverb says in my place? It says that the eagle dies engraved with the hands open, the worm crawls on the earth...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u60	He's dying in the air, he says.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u61	In the air, yes, with the wings open. The worm crawls and the snake stings with the belly sniff on the earth. The Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis - and I am conscious of the "Kyriakos Mitsotakis" and not of the New Democracy - is even cementing the last rugs from which a little democracy can pass, after the literally cementing of the Acropolis, which we all understood why. Access to it was the pretext. The issue was access to the Acropolis of trucks for unloading all the information on photography of the DIOR home! Who knows what else we'll see in the future! Poor Manolis Glezo and Poor Lakis Santa, who these days have been eighty years from your heroic act to download the German swastika from the Holy Rock and upload the Greek flag! In a few days' time they will wave to the sacred cement the models of "DIOR"! But what can we do? With the support of the government, we will have the results we have! Then came the cementing of the theatre "Embros" and now with the bill we are discussing today comes the - within introductorys - "cementing" of the small even autonomy of local communities. Many colleagues who spoke before me analysed in detail and documented how undemocratic this bill is. I would prefer to speak on the bill with the words of the mayors and presidents of my constituency, the region of Larissa. I have said several times that it is an honor for me to be able from this step, which I consider to be the highest instrument of democracy, to give voice to my colleagues, to my fellow citizens. These days, I contacted many mayors and presidents of my region, with as many as I could. In their vast majority, regardless of political position, they were opposed. So I'm reading you some excerpts. Starting with Mayor Elassonas Nikos Gatsas, who said: "The new system leads to a mayoral administration system, with a smaller number of advisors, giving the administration of the municipalities to a small group of strong local actors elected due to the exorbitant electoral costs, without any effective control. The mayor will have absolute control over the shrinked municipal council, with few minority councillors and full control over local councils in communities of over three hundred people, thereby ensuring the president's vote on the municipal council on community issues. On the contrary, simple analogue promotes convergences and partnerships. In many municipalities, the elected mayor proceeded with co-operation in order to obtain a majority on the municipal council, and this - look out - resulted in a substantial partnership between party parties and the release of local government from party dependency. In the Municipality of Elassona, the cooperation of two factions worked very successfully and very creatively. There is a majority on the municipal council and the possibility of using staff from both sides at the same time. No matter is stuck and no side effects have been caused by mere analogy. Instead, he joined forces in society and promoted cooperation between citizens from different political areas. The municipal authority is cooperating with all the presidents and local councils elected by independent listings and did not affect the mayor's election. The absolute matching of communities over three hundred people with the mayor's resignation leads to local councils decorating to take orders from the mayor and will not express local communities. The separate poll gave residents the opportunity to participate in independent ballots and participate in the local councils." I continue with excerpts of the posting in the public consultation of the Ministry of the Interior on the electoral system of Mr.Phosmiadis, President of the Domenikos martyrship community: "Our appointment as candidates by the candidate mayor, as you suggest, only polls carry on the mayor unnecessarily. It divides small communities in our villages and creates party, parade armies. The members of the independent ballot in which I was elected and the President of my community have had the right - and we have all exercised it - to publicly support any candidate mayor, we believe, at the same time, to cooperate in the best way and to be elected for the good of our country and our community. This is for me the definition of democracy." And Mr Psomadis continues to speak to you, Minister. I will now address you, reading it. "Mr. Minister and dear legislators of our Parliament, every small place, the place of our heart, as I believe in your own villages from which you come, has its own culture and history. Our small witnessing and today's earthquake-stricken Domeniko community, like all the communities in the country, wants to continue to exist and not, as in practice leads this bill to be abolished. It is also interesting that the Presidents of the earthquakes of the glaring villages of Damasios and Mesochori, Georgios Tsanaka and Ioannis Zarladani, who, although coming from different political areas - take note of this, Minister - have pointed out the same thing to me, but that they have managed to deal effectively with the catastrophic consequences of the earthquake because their Community councils have come from partnerships and all the advisors have helped unitedly. I will close my speech by repeating a phrase from Mr. Stathis Psomiadis' position: Every small place, the place of our heart, as I believe in your own villages from which you come, has its own culture and history. It wants each community to defend itself through the independent Community Councils. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u62	And we thank Mrs. Baguea. Mr Charalambos Papademitriou has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u63	Thank you very much, Mr President. It's good to be honest whenever we have a chance. I understand that in the division of the Anti-Population - the Grand at least - the worship of the process is always a more serious matter and it is being done at the expense of substance, but I think that the sense of regularism, which you have attempted when you tabled the draft law in which you changed the procedure for the election of the mayor and finally of the municipal council, was not one I would call it shameful not to argue, but it was a transaction, a politically unfair transaction. It was a bet against local government. Eventually you're trapped, too. You are now aware of this with the experience of the two years. Nor have the minority groups that you have supported, as you say, any co-determination of decisions, nor do they have the work of the municipal authority in the public opinion, which ultimately what it does? It sees the delays and if we do not come to correct this situation, it will continue to see the divisions, the endless discussions, and finally, ladies and gentlemen, of counter-population, it will become able to faint equally all those who have increased responsibilities. We prevent and you have to tell us a "thank you" that we will be able to prevent the chaos that you have created so that when you make the account of your elected representatives in local government to be somewhat corrected, people will not be able to murmur the elections. The mayor, Mr. Hatzidakis, told you. It is not just the experience he has. He did not say to you - badly, mayor - the experience he has in what you call consensus, as much as I know, as I watched him closely because I was working next door in New Faliro. But I've always watched the good mayors, like Mr. Hardalia, because mayors are a cell of democracy as you say it very well, but democracy is won within the municipal council. In order for a mayor to win it, he must have a cause. Let's give him that. Let's give him what the people will choose that Hatzidakis or anyone else wants to have. This is what made successful municipalities work with consensus, make decisions that are effective and ultimately rewarded by municipal councillors. You see the mayor, you see the party, you don't see the fact - Mr. Dritsa said it, he well pointed it out, but he forgot by what electoral system all of them were working at the time - that municipal councillors, people who will come to deal with this decisive first tier, can have a retreat, not stipulate them, do not go to Kumundur about who will go to municipality a, b, c, so that we don't have the phenomena that we now have in one of the most beautiful municipalities in Attica, in Hallandri. You know that. I repeat: the only reason why you tried to change the system was to create chaos in the hope that you could emerge from the ashes of chaos in which the country would have fallen. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] Consider the issue of financial management. I must now see the former Minister who at his youth fought similarly - transfer to local government, regional government, resources, responsibilities, tax powers. The European view, in fact, says that it is the region that must have the first word in too many things. But how will he have the first reason if he doesn't have the last one? How do we ask her to be responsible? How can we strengthen the economic self-sufficiency of the municipalities, regions, transfer more powers, which has stopped precisely because maladministration phenomena have begun to grow? That is why Mr Mitsotakis pointed this out to you in the debate in your bill. He was, of course, missing, then the Prime Minister had extraordinary duties that day. It's okay. But here, we have come to discuss transferring HNPHIA, that is, transferring important responsibilities that connect the municipality, the mayor, the municipal council and the anti-majorities to the community, to the inhabitants, to the people who live there. How are we gonna do this if we don't trust good administration? Standards exist. Thank God, Greece has a very open, very democratic system and we are therefore not going to have any practical change in this regard. Municipal groups will continue to work and work, and they will work better, because they will now have power to them which will work better, so they will not just work in a small parliament, which has turned too many municipal councils into which the protagonists are often the ones mentioned by Mr Vorides and Mr Petsas. So the fact that we are entering a class and we will be able to ask for control of the mayors, the municipal councillors better, and they will no longer have the excuse, but, unfortunately, it is true, I think it is what this change brings, and it is what the majority is calling for, not on the parliaments, on the municipalities. So since you're sneezing out the municipalities, then I don't think you'll have heard anything different. The revelations and here were typical. But the most beautiful revelation of these days, ladies and gentlemen of Anti-Population, is one: The way - and I will not hide my joy about it - you are coming to the doctrine of "law and order". Fortunately! It's about time. I understand that guns had to be fired from organized crime, for which you once look at numbers, it's not bad. Police reports in the years you've been ruling are revealing. Criminal groups increased every year. The last report tells us that we have thirty more criminal organisations in Greece when you handed over political power than we had when you received it. Look at the numbers. In any case, however, if we agree that the law and order must be enforced in the sense of the laws that are being passed here - and first of all we must defend this principle - no problem. We agree and we go further. Exercise the opposition, control Chrysochoid and give him more, if you like, excuses to do so. But not when he does it come here or elsewhere and say "badly done", because that's how we're not going anywhere. And I would like to say one thing that is not a matter of prolongation, it is not a matter of political conviction, but of personal conviction: refuse, for example, many others - and in my own party in discussions I have done there is a lack of - the security cameras. One of the issues that will make it easier for us is security cameras. There are good models, experience of good ones exists in all the favoured states. If we take these, we implement a good system, a strictly controlled system, we go forward. So as you have come to the only law and order that one can imagine, the law that Parliament is voting on, let us go further, make a step operational and your criticisms will always be welcome. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u64	Good. The next speaker is the V Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr. Odyssey Constantinople, from the Change Movement. The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA will be followed. Mr. Constantinople, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in the last few years, following developments in local government, I would like to begin by saying that no electoral system is a gospel. Everything can be improved through proposals to improve, to create better conditions for local society, for citizens. However, there are some perceptions that have been put forward and each party has a sample of what it believes about how local government operates. There is the PASOK with the major reforms, which - even the last one - voted against all the parties - had stable principles, with problems, with very big changes. It is characteristic that the last law on "CALICRATE" did not vote for either New Democracy or SYRIZA, but the man who was at that time Minister is now in SYRIZA. In other words, there is a contradiction in political acts. I don't know who makes a difference. But let's go now to the last three systems, because it's of great value to see what your difference is to what you've been tabling lately. Reforms made PASOK. Now let's go see what SYRIZA did. Was he positive and negative? Of course, he had the bill positive and negative. What's SYRIZA done lately? Believe something very simple. With the electoral system of so-called mere analogy, with the multi-currency he did, and because he knew he didn't have powers in local government, what did he think quite simply? As Vucas said, we should "strengthen" the power of the municipalities. And they really tried through this process to break down a system. I mean, we had a mayor with seven advisors. You know it. Big problem? That's a big problem. Did that law have a positive effect? Sure. I should like to say to you a positive one that the government today does not respect: that it has enabled local communities, small communities, with the independent lists, to be able to work for the benefit of their societies. That's the truth. What is New Democracy doing now? Says 43%, not 50%+1, why? What is the thought of the majority of the CEDEFOP? That this will maintain to a large extent the powers in the next elections. The same thing that happened to SYRIZA could have happened to New Democracy. Why? Because you don't behave on the basis of principles. That's the problem. The problem is in both cases how we will be close to power, and local government must be how the citizen will be close to power. It's your feature in all moves. They are the faces, the way you are all marked by these enlargements or anything else, most characteristic of the latter. I wonder: Politicians are so cynical that the parties welcome people who have fired people. It was at the worst Samara - Venizelos government, which was the most negative part! They were the ones who fired the world, who were with those groups with which you supported these people that a minister fired and today, you accept him, bring him with you, see him? How cynicity can there be in this power policy? I'm connecting the previous ones. How much? I wonder. In other words, you had 'caramanlics', now you also got'samars'! What party are you? What cynicity is there in politics? Of course, New Democracy will laugh! I see the Minister now and I remembered this. The Minister was in the same district as a Member of Parliament who left our party because he did not want the memos. He went out of the House with flags and such to drop the memorials and went to New Democracy later to get the country out of the problem through the memorials. This is the cynicity of politics, ladies and gentlemen, which is actually helping you now, but it does not create conditions for the policy to function in accordance with rules and morality. This is our difference with PASOK today, with the culmination, with social democracy, with what we all believe, that we can live without power, that we have the moral advantage of living without necessarily having to go to another party. Transferring your garments to power alone, whether in local government or elsewhere, is not politics. It's a piece of money, little or big. So, Minister, I think that the local communities were something very important and positive, which helped the world, the young people, and you see that they told you from local communities as well. For example, in Therasia - being Yannis Brutsis - there may be a local counselor. What for? What's the problem? And I conclude with the Golden Dawn amendment. I lived in 2009 on Golden Dawn with their athletes in the Parliament, their free whacks, their loopholes, all this and I am happy today for this initiative. In any case, however, ladies and gentlemen, we must isolate people who have the same attitudes - and I do not recognize anyone - as those who have driven the people out of this House. So, if something has to be said today, it is that not again, Golden Dawn, not practices in Parliament, except Parliament that reminds us of Golden Dawn, which reminds us of all that we want to forget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr. President. We shall now give the floor to the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, Mr Ragosi. After Mr. Ragosi, Mr. Himaras, Mrs. Augerre, Mr. Bartzokas will follow. Here, Mr Ragosi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Mr President. I will begin, first of all, with the wording of two posts, one could say. Firstly, the debate on local government is always in fact - and we must not forget that - a debate on democracy. Self-government is, as has been established, one of the roots of democracy. Secondly, to paraphrase a well-known popular saying, which also applies in the case of this bill, tell me your electoral law, to tell you who you are. Just before I begin, I would like to say something that I consider to be major in relation to this bill and which I am going to mention in detail. I cannot pass on, Mr Voridis, and my dear colleagues, particularly in the New Democracy, the references you make in general to'simply proportionate'. They are themselves of populism and populism often manifests itself through what we say 'provincialism'. And in the case of the mere analogy of this type provincialism, I think it takes extreme characteristics. What do I mean? Firstly, the simple analogue is intertwined with the principle and the value of justice. It must not be forgotten that the citizen who listens to us - a man or a woman, a young person or not - is actually doing something against simple proportionalness, that he is actually working against a fair electoral system. A person may not want it, he may not prefer it, but the simple analogy of the principle and the value of justice is embedded. Secondly, you cannot speak of the simple analogue, actually underestimating the intelligence of citizens and all, when large powers, economic powers, productive powers, Mr Vorides, all over the world, which are in many areas of economic and political life an example for imitation. The Netherlands is a developed, thriving case? It is. Is Israel with all the peculiarities? It is. Is that Cyprus? It is. What electoral systems do these countries have, Mr. Voridis, you know? Learn. Simple, simple analogue. So don't talk about simply proportionally as if it is something that you always charge it in the most negative way. Be responsible, say your opinions, your arguments, say why you do not want it, but do not speak in this provincial way. Thirdly, Greece since 1974 - I am not referring to the post-Multipulation, after the post-Multipulation - has had a basic electoral system, with the exception of a very short break. What was Greece's electoral system? The enhanced analogy. Mr Voridis, Greece has been bankrupt, your party - to be precise - has bankrupt the country, but also the entire country's route to bankruptcy has not been in a mere proportion, with enhanced analogue systems that have been in place since 1974. Now I want to refer to something that, in my opinion, is the major in relation to this bill, and at some point, I would ask you to stop comparing apples with oranges and trying to put things in the right dimension. What is the major change in this bill? What are you changing? Are you changing and abolishing the simple ratio of 43%? Answer: No, of course, under no circumstances do you change the simple rate of 43%. I say, Mr Voridis, and I stress this: you have dormantly and completely deformed the public debate on this bill, you have fraudulently deformed the parliamentary debate in relation to this bill, because what you change is not just a 43% analogy. Let's see what you're changing, let's see what's going on today. First of all, the basic rule of democracy applies, the basic rule of democracy which wants the majority to decide and the minority with respect for its rights to accept the majority decision that is taken every time. This is the basic, elementary rule of democracy. Firstly, what applies is the basic rule of democracy on the basis of which the majority is moving forward. Second, what else is wrong? It is true that after "KALIKRATH" and after "KLISTHEN", the mayor and the district mayor, as traditionally has been the case since 1974, during the entire change, with the exception of the break that began in 2006, is elected not on a simple analogue basis. The mayor and the mayor are not elected on a simple analogue basis, either after the "KALIKARATI" or after the "KALIKARATI", but they are elected, and one and the other, on the basis of the 50%+1, plus one vote, either in the first or second round. What's 50%+1? It is a majority electoral system, and not proportional, obviously, that is what we call a majority electoral system and basically the most democratic after, of course, the simple analogue system. So what you're changing with this bill is not the simple analogue of 43%. You change the majority democratic 50%+1 for the election of the mayor and the district mayor, with 43% minority. This is the major change you make, Mr Voridis, with this bill. Do more, I'll talk about later, but that's the major change. In other words, you are changing a majority voting system with a minority voting system. In fact, what are you doing very simply, but also very specifically? What is the major change of the Mitsotakis - Voridis bill? It is the fact that you remove the power, remove the word, remove the power from the majority, from the many municipalities, from each region, and where do you give it? To the few, in the minority, you give the floor, you give the power, you give the power to municipal, self-government, the district and the municipality to the few, the minorities, while they took it and held it during the post-multiple period, with the exception of the 2006 break, a few years later, and after "KALIKARATIS" the majority had this power and power. There was no more extreme anti-democratic, more extreme nuisance than what you were doing with this bill. And you have totally falsified the parliamentary dialogue on the public debate, trying to compare and collide two disparate things, how the mayor and the regional director are elected to show the connections within the municipal and regional councils. These are two other things between them, no matter what. So you come to the Greek Parliament in 2021, headed by Mr Mitsotakis, and you change the basic rule of democracy, you give the power to the few and remove it from the many in each municipality and every district. Why are you doing this? Obviously, because you are a government, as I will explain - and many colleagues have said - our rapporteur, Mr Hatzigiannakis, has said so - 'fucking' and not a government of principle, Mr Vorides. You are actually doing this for the following reason. In the last municipal and regional elections, as is well known, you have managed, in the climate of that time, to achieve the election in most cases, including the municipalities and regions, mayors and regional authorities, within a climate, in a current that was created, this well-known anti-SYRIZA climate that was created at that time. Most of them, not all of them, because there are exceptions, do not mean that because they have been supported by the New Democracy or because they belong to the New Democracy, there are currently no good mayors and mayors in the country - the vast majority of those who became mayors and regional leaders with your support, Mr Vorides, in the last elections are falling apart. I say this on account of knowledge and experience. I know many cases of district officers, I know many cases of mayor, and on the basis of the experience I carry as a former Minister of the Interior, but above all as former mayor, they do not just collapse, but they will not even find the opportunity to create a serious vote if they try to come back to the next election. So what is the idea, and why are you doing all this? Because you are going on the basis of "The next time we can rescue them by 43%". They won't be rescued again. I'll explain why. You won't be able to do anything. But that's your logic. They are our friends, mayors and regional leaders who collapse, violate the basic rule of democracy, violate the basic tradition of self-government that the majority want to decide, not the minorities, to give them a last chance to stay in the court of their own. Of course, you'll get a hole in the water, Mr. Voridis. You will achieve a hole in the water, because first of all, if you were able to achieve your goal, we would already have in the country, based on the electoral laws, the governments that had taken the lead and "cut off and seized" electoral laws in their actions. Societies no electoral law can stop them, especially in this particular case - I think - any electoral law, as much as he does, has what we call his engineering, has its consequences. So what will happen now, too, quite simply? In every municipality and in every region where societies, local communities, local executives, civil society sees that there is an unacceptable mayor to change, an unacceptable regional mayor to change, get out - this is the consequence of the 43% electoral law that you bring - to form the broader progressive and democratic conflict that he wants and must set up to defeat the mayor or district manager who must be defeated from the first round. And that's what's gonna happen. You will push all the political forces of the progressive arch into co-operations that would probably or would never happen or enter into the logic of the second round. Now you're going to get out there. Watch what I'm saying, Mr. Voridis, don't rush. It does not mean that you have the right to rape democracy, democratic rules. I can explain to you, because what you are doing will only leave at the end is this violation of the basic principles on the basis of which our country, our homeland and self-government have gone for decades. And I'll say it and then. Do not try to connect 43% of the self-government elections to 43% of the parliamentary elections. Do not try and say "do not try" in this sense, Mr Voridis: For the simple reason that in the parliamentary elections, if you want - you know it, but if you don't know, tell it out of time, I can explain it to you - there is neither the tradition nor the ability of the two rounds, while in the government there are the two rounds, there are 50% +1 that either claim it in the first round or claim it in the second round. So there is even the possibility for this majority system in the second round to give people the right to decide. A number of examples have been mentioned. Now I remembered them. There is no need to get tired of someone with numerical examples. You go and give authority to municipal and regional authority to someone who gets 43%, while going to the second round, a majority of 57% could be formed. And you say: 'No, the municipality or the district will not be governed by 58%. 43% will keep it.’ You dismantle democracy on that basis, Mr Voridis, and you and Mr Mitsotakis are also charged with this bill, and of course all the Members who vote for it. And say some more. I can't let that go. I can't get over it. It'll be a stigma. It will be a political and historical stigma for those who mayors and regionals who support this extreme anti-democratic and extremist mockery bill of 43%. They have no right to the name of any selfishness and any personal and self-help, whoever wants to be re-elected, to try to get the majority in his municipality and in his district. It cannot be self-government, which is the foundation of democracy, which is embodied in democracy, that supports electoral collapsing systems which remove the majority right to make decisions. But that's not all you do. That was the major change. Very soon and three references to three not negligible changes that you make. Firstly, you are introducing the five-year term into the logic of the previous one. We give them the 43% right, they stay and we give them a bonus year. Mr Voridis, the five-year term was first established with the 'Kalikaratis'. But it wasn't her five years. I would like to inform you that the reason for the five-year-old with the "KALIKARATI" was to save the country's election. It was the five years that resulted from the primary option of making municipal elections with the European elections, self-government with the European elections. And since we have five years of renewing the European Parliament, we had to, if we wanted these elections to be identified, to get away with an election campaign and a election period, the country should go to five years. Since the relationship has left - and you do not bring it back - in municipal and regional elections, the five-year-old service is what we have said before, which will also work backwards, because this will also produce synergies, because this will now send on the basis of each municipality and every district the message that we now need to get together, win, because if we do not collaps from the first round, if we do not build this wide-ranging and democratic front, we will not only be elected by this or by 43%, but we will also have another year left. Second - third - third - third - second of the second section - is it possible to introduce 3% into government as a limit for entry into municipal and regional councils? Please! Honestly, please warmly, Mr. Voridis. You're an interior minister in the country. Members cannot criticise you for the 3% threshold and you can make the reference to 3% of the parliamentary elections, when it is well-known because of 3% in the parliamentary elections and when it is also well known that there is no reason for them to prevail in self-government for the simple reason that we have in too many areas of the country and on the basis of spatial planning - whatever is said by various people, who think intelligence is political - it has not changed. I don't want to make a special reference to this. I would like to say, however, that 3% 'kills' people, 'kills' groups, 'kills' citizens, 'kills' their ability to exist, to express themselves. Why are you banning and preventing the City of Athens tomorrow from forming a municipal movement with a unique theme of protecting stray animals? He won't want to rule. He'll want to enter the city council with a one-thematic agenda for the protection of stray animals. Why do you remove them the right to claim 3% and enter the city council? Why do you remove the right from another group of citizens who want to make a one-thematic move against the abuse of women, Mr Voridis? He doesn't want to be a mayor or a regional mayor. But they want to be there to fight about this. Why are you banning this thing from them? For what? Why don't you let all the flowers bloom? We are talking about self-government, about local societies, about citizens who want to give them the way out, about participation in democracy. You say to them: 'No, we will not leave you, 3%'.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u68	Mr Ragossi, you already know that you are making use of the time of your tritology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u69	All right, I'm done. Previously, we had 12-minute speeches. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u70	I have to let you know. From that point on, if you want to speak for an hour, speak for an hour.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u71	Okay, I'm telling you, I'm done. I understand and say 'I'm done'. So I wanted to say an extra. 43%, I told you first of all that it is a false talk that changes the simple analogue. It doesn't change the simple analogue. It changes 51%. But 43% isn't like that. It is in combination with the three fifths (3/5). And I would also advise you, Mr. Voridis, don't smash your degree into any bets. In part of the Council of State, before the 42% regulation was decided, the 42% anti-constitutional arrangement had been decided to be unconstitutional. And tell me a government, a government at the place that entered this Parliament with 43% and had 180 Members. Has the policy of our country ever been in history, Mr Voridis, a government which, with 43%, entered the House with 180 Members? That's what you're doing in self-government now. This is a ratio by which you legislate, on the basis of which you are planning, on the basis of which you are organizing. There should be local governments, mayors and district rulers who are in the House with 43% and 180 MPs. So I'm ending up with a word. This is actually not a legislative initiative that you are proposing. This is a legislative suffering, Mr Voridis, a legislative suffering for the institutions and - the worst of all - legislative suffering for democracy itself. And this will be a strong signal for the Mitsotakis Government, from which it will not be able to leave, because there is also no doubt that such a electoral system will not be long termed by any government that succeeds the Mitsotakis Government and respects not the principles of the Left, not the principles of the progressive party, but the basic rules for the functioning of the democratic culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u72	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u73	Minister, do you want the floor for one or two minutes? Okay. You have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u74	Perhaps, Mr President, I will need some of my contributions, not all of them, but some of my contributions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u75	Will you speak from Stepma? Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u76	Look, I will mainly speak towards the end of the sitting. This will therefore be a small intervention, because I was particularly impressed by the intervention of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, Mr Ragosi. Look, right now, I'm confused. I thought that today we have an electoral system in the municipalities, which normally elects a mayor with 50% plus 1%. In the municipalities, if I remember correctly in the local government, we have a two-round majority of them. Right? This is a completely different system. The majority two rounds can apply it, asking for what you are claiming, and I think it's KINAL's position now. Or, rather, you do not deserve it, so this debate is not much for you, in that you are in the sense that you are in the simple analogue, and that is therefore another debate. You don't say that because here you've disconnected two things, which, badly, are connected. Because who will be elected mayor and what party will win, because it is linked to what seats this party will take on the municipal and regional council, so this is a debate. It's an election. We don't have a separate cellar that we put on the mayor, a separate cellar that we put on the municipal orders and a separate cellar - which you did - where we put the locals. We have an election. The result of this election is all judged. It is the mayor, in fact, who has him as a separate, single-faced, administrative body - true - but the correlation between seats in municipal and regional councils is also judged. These are judged in one election. So the system, which exists - to reconstruct it, because the way you broke it, one thinks it is different things - says this: it is an election in two rounds. You haven't changed that. What you have changed is the political impact of the result on the distribution of seats. That's what you changed. Does this matter and is it linked to the outcome of the administration? Well, isn't it? Otherwise, if he didn't, he should have all the responsibilities only the mayor. That is not the case, it also has responsibility for the municipality and the regional council. So, obviously, all this is correlated. If, in other words, I elect a regional director, who has no majority on his regional council, some powers of the sole representative of the administrative body exercises them, some of them cannot exercise them, because he does not have a majority. So, because you told me, you know, we are not talking about simply proportionally, we are talking about something else. Of course we are talking about the simple analogue, and of course we are discussing how the seats are distributed, and of course these are connected and of course they are completely and inextricably linked. Let us go to his argument of '50% plus 1 or 43%'. It's an election two rounds. Right? Since it is election two rounds, we have to answer this question: is the will of the citizens shaped in the second round in the same way as the first one? That's what you can answer. What does that mean? To make it very simple. In the first round, which is all the combinations that come down to the citizens' selection, everyone goes and chooses the one who wants to elect a mayor. The system two around what he says? You did not get 50% - in your view - you are obliged not to go out into the first two to join one of the two. That's not self-evident, it doesn't mean it produces....
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u77	Your system says that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u78	No, you kept the two rounds in your own system.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u79	Theodorikos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u80	No, no, he's no Theodoric.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u81	Please don't interrupt. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u82	Listen. We won't forget what we know. Things in life are just for those who have elementary experience. What do I say again? There are combinations now that we are talking about before the mere analogy has been abolished. The combinations participate, with both if you don't get 50% plus 1 out of the first round, we have a second round for the mayors. The first two participate. So the others must join, it is not their original choice.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u83	Or cooperate.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u84	You're confusing it again. You have lost Mr Ragosi's argument.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u85	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u86	You have lost Mr Ragosi's argument. I too have had a hard time following it, but I have tried, you have not understood it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u87	Minister, it is a warm request that you be briefed. There are Members who are waiting to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u88	Mr. Ragus is coming and what does he say? It's confusing, because you're forcing us and you're not accepting 50%+1 and it's coming out with 43%. That's what Mr. Raguss says. I say that this would all make sense if we had a first round. We've got two rounds. The two around it obliges the losers to join a choice that was not their original.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u89	He's blackmailing them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u90	That's right. Isn't that right? That's the two-round system around. He's pushing them. People voted for the People's Folk Convergence and now tells them: The People's Symbol has not gone to the second round and you will go to one of the two. It's not their original choice. So here I ask now: we are not going to abolish the two system around... [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Wait. It's always more complicated to me, as you know. Life isn't easy. Life isn't easy with me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u91	Please calm down.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u92	So we keep...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u93	Will you be quiet? Mr. Polakis, please. Mr. Ragosi, you are a parliamentarian, to impose order.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u94	Ladies and gentlemen, are you protesting about time?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u95	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u96	Please be aware of the possibilities of the Minister's interventions regulation, to see that I am using time with great enthusiasm.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u97	That's not what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u98	Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u99	Okay, Mr. Barca?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u100	That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u101	Let go, Mr. Polakis, you say another, Mr. Barkas complains about time because something doesn't like it. You will not only listen to what you like, you will also listen to what you do not like in the name of democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u102	Calm down.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u103	Let's go now. So when you get 43%, the government's position is that you have sufficient legitimacy so that you don't have to oblige the others to join the winning combination in the end. So this is the government's position. The position of 50%+1 is not a position that accepts the initial result. It is a position which obliges voters to make another choice. Make them obligations when they're under 43% why? Because legalisation is not sufficient. But when it has received 43%, which of course is linked to how majorities are formed, I am told by Mr Ragus: 'Don't use the argument'. Why shouldn't I use it? We accept it on major issues. In government election, it is not 43%, Mr Ragosi, but 39%, 38%. Do we accept this in order to make the majority of Parliament and tell me that 43% does not have sufficient legitimacy to avoid the second round and not lead the voters to a mandatory option? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So we will not forget what we know and, in any case, you have the right to have your views, which have really destroyed the municipalities and you must give an answer to that at some point. You have to give an answer: How is it possible for municipalities not to praise your brilliant electoral system? Since it was so nice, since it was so good, having such amazing results, why does it come along and collide all the representatives - the whole, I repeat - of the institutional representatives, the mayors, the municipalities, the regional directors, the regional consultants, the municipal councillors and say that the mere proportionalness was disastrous? Why do they call it that?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u104	Minister, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u105	So things are pure and completely legitimized and morally and politically correct.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u106	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u107	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u108	Let's set a row. SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, Mr Ragus. Then we will give the floor to the Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement, Mr Scandalides. It is a good request from the Bureau for short positions because it expects a large number of Members to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u109	I just want the floor for two minutes, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u110	I'll give you the floor. I didn't refuse. And if there is another parliamentary representative who wants to intervene, he will take the floor. Mr Ragosisi, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Voridis, I would like your attention, please. To disagree, obviously, is not a problem, neither for you nor for us. But to see that you cannot understand us, Mr Voridis, is alarming. And because I watched a word about what you said, I was convinced that you did not understand. To tell you that in other words, if your problem was the simple analogue, and if the major change that you bring with this legislative difficulty for democracy was the abolition of mere analogy, you would make a choice, Mr Voridis: you would reinstate three fifths and leave the two-round system, which the government had from '74 to 2006, acquired after 2010 with 'KALIKRATI' and maintained with 'KLITHEN'. However, you do not do that, Mr Vorides, which you could do if your point was simply proportional. You abolish fifty plus one, remove the majority rule and put 43% in. Do you understand that now, Mr. Voridis? That's what you're doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u112	That's not all I'm doing. I do that, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u113	Do you understand why what you are doing, Mr Voridis, cannot escape the designation of both the extreme anti-democratic and the extremist spice? For you are replacing and replacing 50%+1 with 43%, Mr Vorides. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u114	Mr. Scandalides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Mr President. I think, Minister, that the debate is taking place on the wrong basis and the arguments have to do more with the functioning of the factions and less with the democratic legitimacy of the people's basis. Another debate must be held for 43% of the one that is being held in this Chamber. First of all, our position is well-known, it is a dissolution of the system that SYRIZA voted for with "CLISTEN" and had to change. I'm coming to your proposal. Things are very simple, the mayor is an executive body, a single person, and he must have - and he must have - direct powers to exercise local authority, once he can interfere with daily problems of citizens on his own, and give answers and solutions. It needs to be democratically legitimized. 43% does not give him democratic legitimacy. I'm not talking about the orders. I'm talking about the second round between two candidates who must definitely get 51% because the mayor is chosen, not the party, in the second round. The mayor, who will decide and act on behalf of the citizens, is chosen and must have democratic legitimacy. There, it is our opposition to 43% and it is - I think - clear. Fifty plus one gives him the ability to exercise responsibilities. The second point, however, which suffers from your bill as well, is that even if it has democratic legitimacy, it should be possible for the community organs of the municipal authority to be able to deal with the critical issues relating to programming, development choices, in everything, to arm themselves with such powers that the mayor can exercise his power only on matters of his direct authority, which you must identify before making decisions on the electoral system, so that there can be a substantial upgrading of the representative functioning of the municipalities. You only support the mayor and weaken the collective bodies. That is what is happening in practice. In my opinion, this is the great contradiction and that is our major opposition to 43%. I repeat, we say about the people and their vote, not about the orders.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u116	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u117	Minister, please, as soon as you can. You have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u118	I beg your pardon, but I want a little bit to understand, so we can end the issue of legalization. Two rounds. Listen to the scenario: Municipality of Athens, candidates go down and in the second round there is a SYRIZA candidate and the KKE candidate and I have to vote. Do you understand now? What legalization are you telling me now?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u119	Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u120	Peace beside me. It is not a democratic one, because it says that I, which will indeed be forced to choose something from both, will obviously get what it earns 50%, but it does not mean that this compulsory option produces additional legalisation. That's what I'm telling you. The mayor will remain as foreign to me as if I hadn't voted for him. So what do we say here? 43%... [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] Listen to me, please. Repeat, we have a right to disagree. However, I can explain to you why an argument is produced that additional legalisation is produced with it. This is your argument. So I say that for me...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u121	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u122	Come on, Mr. Polakis, for God's sake.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u123	Calm down. Minister, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u124	I want to make the speech brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u125	Calm down. Nothing is recorded. They are still talking about thirty-four Members. Respect the speakers who are waiting for their hearts. Carry on, Minister, and finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u126	I'm hanging up. So, 43% of us consider that it is sufficient legalisation so that there is no need for a second round that leads essentially to the inclusion of votes where there is no need to add, because the legalisation of the first round is sufficient. You're going to tell me: Why with 42% to go to second? Because of course I couldn't accept this legitimacy if it was 25%. 43%, however, is sufficient legalisation. That's where we put the limit and that's our position.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u127	Good. Mr Himaras has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u128	Thank you, Mr President. Let's calm down now. It makes me a terrible impression, however, that I hear a former PASOK Minister come today to defend policies implemented by the SYRIZA government, and at that very time he described the then Prime Minister, Mr Tsipras as the most dishonest Prime Minister of Postmopulation. I'm coming to the bill. The bill serves two basic conditions: speed and efficiency. They are preconditions for the return of the economy to positive growth after the pandemic crisis. It is a piece of legislation that strengthens precisely the conditions and is also a requirement of self-government. Because the demand for self-government is the restoration of governance and the facilitation of the administration of a region, a municipality, a community. The government of SYRIZA - ANEL, in 2018, closed its ears to these voices of the institutions and unfortunately the positions of colleagues yesterday, but also today in this Chamber, show clearly and clearly how it believes today too, such as when representatives of local government called for changes in the "KLITHENH" during the consultation, but also after his vote. You still don't listen today. After all, it was also clear that the then Minister for the Interior, just from this Step, will be implemented despite the efforts of the "KLITHENIS". I, too, will report on several occasions colleagues from two examples of OTA life as a former self-government. The first example is 'CLIMINES' and mayor: Without a majority of consultants on the basis of which programme he will carry out his duties, what policy will he implement? The one for which he or she was elected by majority advisers and not at the same time the majority of the constituents who elected him on the second Sunday? 'CLEAR' and 'budget' are the second example. The opposition may possibly propose to vote for a different budget than the one recommended by the municipal authority. How, then, will the principle apply to the policy for which the majority of the citizens were elected? With the opposition budget? And I wonder, and we should be concerned about whether these and many similar situations cannot give rise to transactions under the table, who can? So, instead of solving, he created problems in the administration and operation of two hundred and thirty-two municipalities of the thirty-two total that the country has. In sixty - nine, in fact, one of the two hundred thirty - two, the party that elected the mayor was second in power from the first round. Only a hundred mayors were elected in the first round, accounting for more than 50%. We are coming, ladies and gentlemen, with this bill and we are introducing these key and substantial changes to correct the errors and failures to which I have referred. Our sole objective is the interest of fellow citizens, who require a sustainable model of governance, a model that will favour governance and efficiency at the level of regions and municipalities. Given the detailed position of our rapporteur and colleagues, I will focus on a fundamental reform, on the definition of the term of office in five years, as provided for in Articles 5 and 43 of the draft law, respectively. And I will refer to it, because to all of us who served self-government, we first met the time needed to study, license, integrate, auction, and finally say how to implement a co-financed project. As long as I can get you the example of a project, the expansion of the natural gas network in the Region of Central Greece, which I myself ran as a regional consultant with all my powers. In 2014 we took over regional administration, in 2015 we agreed with the Commission and the Government to promote the inclusion of the project, in 2016 we worked on the development and licensing of the project, in 2017, in the Regional Operational Programme, in 2018 we guaranteed the "GDP" by EAB for co-financing and in 2019, a year that we would complete our term of office, remained as pending the proclamation of the respective competitions, which in passing were afflicted enough by the ideas of the then government. But I won't stand on this. I will actually stand up and answer the reasonable question perhaps of some: If your term of office was four years, what would change? I will tell you straight away, ladies and gentlemen, that they may have changed a great deal, because when you run the procedures to mature a project from 2014 to 15 and are not elected in the 2018 elections, you cannot be sure that the next one will be well aware of the complexity of the procedures and the requirements arising from the dense bureaucratic and legislative framework. And it is certain that in this country we have often paid dearly for the half-time of self-government. We have been deprived of projects that, if it were to be implemented by self-government, would serve the next generations. At the same time, of course, we have - let me say - the expression - of projects serving only the next elections, the re-election of our self-government, because - not to be fooled - a project such as that of gas does not take place in two and three years' time, it does not elect the next principle, while the re-enginement of a square, the construction of a field and a road, however, no matter what we do, is a screening project. If, therefore, we also take into account the high procedures, which come to date, and the increased adequacy of the available financial instruments of the NRP, of the next 2021-2027 programming period and of the Recovery Fund, we must realise that the size of the need to strengthen self-government in the years ahead is enormous. In this respect, ladies and gentlemen, many more reforms introduced by our current legislation are the essence. By means of a grid of provisions, it is ensured that elected representatives are able to implement their programme speech, receive a clear legalisation from the election result, without the obstacles created by the mere analogy, to which I have referred. Self-government is surely not a place for experimentation. SYRIZA's alchemys and cuffs have taken valuable time to OTAs. They took the time to implement projects and policies. We have the opportunity today not only to correct these mistakes, but we also have the opportunity to give the necessary power and the appropriate tools to the regions and municipalities so that they too can take responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u129	The next speaker, Mrs Theodora Augeris, from SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, democratic representation, popular participation, political decentralisation are principles which constitute a timeless demand for the youngest of our country in the agonizing effort of Greek democracy to follow a path forward, social and institutional. Unfortunately, Minister, Mr. Voridis, none of this is seen in your bill. And, in fact, a little cynical ago you confess why you are finally bringing this bill, because you are doing this law, to avoid - you said - the dilemma of choice, which is democracy. Democracy is to choose. You even brought an example, saying that the party of the Communist Party and SYRIZA will be finalized in the Municipality of Athens. Minister, you don't want a choice. You want a prescription. You want to have everything ready, prefabricated. For once, legislate by turning the role too far back. Admittedly, it is well known that the arrhythmias and pathogens of self-government are known, but each time we are supposed to deal with them, we must take steps forward rather than backwards in full. Ultimately, we must every time, with regard to local government, always go with regard to what society we want, what is the ideal balance in the relationship between citizens and power, how can we broaden the productive base in the context of regional development, for example, how we protect culture and the environment, how we preserve democratic principles and values, how we promote participation in common, how we cultivate the citizens of high democratic mind, collective consciousness and a sense of shared destiny. I do not think, ladies and gentlemen, that the so-called Mitsotakis final system is governed by such considerations and by such anguish. What he has in mind is how he will share any pie, that is, over-concentration of powers upwards and then their distribution downwards according to his will, as if democracy were to function in terms of purchases, risk fluctuation and individual interest. For the New Democracy, all issues in the exercise of power, larger and smaller, larger or smaller, shall be referred to the ‘one male authority’. And, unfortunately, this kind of legislation does not promote women's representation, but unfortunately, I do not have time to refer specifically to it. And so, as we have a so-called state that is perpetuating the fates of the place, so you are attempting with this election of municipal and regional authorities, as provided for in the draft law, to acquire many small, definite states at local level. Where we have a Moses to acquire many younger Moses. And that is what I think is the essence of what we are discussing. The New Democracy plans and implements profoundly reactionary policies so that the authoritarian, anti-democratic system of central power, as it sees it, is imprinted on the country's self-government map, despite the fact that - and my colleagues have referred to both my party and the other opposition parties - in the European West has chosen a model of self-government based on the councils for decades, while here the government system with its sub-systems insists on the political delay by strengthening the role of mayor and regional director at the expense of municipal and regional councils. They will be elected here - and this was the subject of the debates a little while ago - by '43%+1' by gaining the three fifths (3/5) of the seats in the councils. The seats will be dramatically reduced. In fact, I would like a little to stand on this, because, you know, my district, the 2nd district of Thessaloniki has a hundred fifty and a hundred sixty villages. The communities will only be able to elect independent local candidates out of life through society through the voters from the candidates who come to the elections. Listen - the Minister is not listening because he is gone - what the community network says, which is about six thousand and thirty-five, if I am not mistaken, and which he reacts to this bill, but which he has not heard. You have selective hearing. I cannot comment on this neo-democratic anti-corruption, because the law that you voted a week ago for the vote of Greek citizens abroad was preceded. You dismantle the communities in their country, while otherwise you break your clothes, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, for the vote of the Greeks abroad. You pretend you care about the underrepresentation of the Greeks of Astoria, that you care about the Greeks who are forced to emigrate when by law what these people will vote for will be sub-represented in their village and will not even have a say in their country. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I should like to close by saying this: with the draft Voridis - Mitsotakis law on the election of mayors and regional authorities instead of the face of elected mayors and regional authorities to concentrate the political potential of local society, with the responsibility of the government, a culture of protagonists - cots - cotsabases - who are surrounded by committees and legal persons who can do whatever they want and who can, without being accounted for, only to concentrate on minority interests and customer networks. The government's argument - a record is essentially one: With the simple proportionality of the municipalities there is, he says, powerlessness. We've heard it many times. Another communication - you don't like this word, but that's how it is - pablophic shape from your neo-democratic neo-language, who understands and presents democracy as insolence. I honestly wonder, Mr. Voridis, ladies and gentlemen of the majority. Do you really believe in democratic control, in the need for strong opposition to political and administrative institutions? How exactly do you understand political and public things? Do you believe in changing parties and resignations to central and decentralised authority? Because every time we come to this Chamber, in the last two years we have discussed a draft law of your Government, we realize that everything is persecuted by the same logic: how to shield or highlight those mechanisms and those interests that you believe are capable and necessary to govern constantly! And you have said that, 'no ideas on the left'! You said that, Minister! Say it clearly, all you care about is being in power forever, highlighting your own children in the educational process, highlighting your own factors in the economic process, highlighting your own citizens in local government. So, perhaps, that's why today you're just talking about electing municipal and regional authorities, without saying upgrades and protection, and everything else your communicators dictate. It seems clear to you that a democratic choice equals a neo-democratic election. You'll get answers, though, and that's why in the election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u131	Good. The reason is now Mr Anastasios Bartzokas from New Democracy and will be followed by Mr. Skouriakos, Mr. Delis, Mrs. Vryzidou and Mr. Avramakis, who will complete the ninth cycle of speakers with a natural presence.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u132	Mr President, may I have the floor to table some legislative improvements?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u133	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u134	Mr President, this is not something special. It is simply an additional provision in case we have only one combination of candidates. Because there is a gap here, perhaps it is self-evident, we are simply legislating this if there is no other candidacy than the candidacy of a combination.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u135	Good. Put it in order to share with Parliamentary Groups.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u136	Of course, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u137	Mr. Bartzokas, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u138	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the bill under discussion comes to cure an institutional anomaly that the previous government has inherited in the country and the Greek citizens. Having a party mixture in her hands, baptizing the legislation with the name of the great reformer of antiquity Klisthei and shouting at the cheap slogan "it was just, it was done," she established the simple proportional system for the election of the municipalities and regions. The “CLITHENIS” was only a baptist to safeguard his sovereignty in a hopeless effort and when they were already prognostic against him, a lifesaving to establish power, the adhesive to stay in the chair. But let us remember, above all, two things that Mr 4555/2018 said and did: firstly, it made simple proportional representation in the distribution of seats to municipalities and regions, under the pretext of more democracy and better representation. Secondly, he organised differently the exercise of local authority by reintroducing the four-year term, invoking the greater accountability of local leaders. However, in practice, "CLITHENIS" only succeeded was an institutional distortion and the corresponding deadlock caused by all institutional distortions. Because in practice it has been proved that having the majority of the electorate who do not have the majority on the municipal council, i.e. mayor who won the elections, but have fewer municipal councillors, creates a major problem between the two directly elected bodies: the mayor and the municipal council, a problem, therefore, legalisation. It is not only the risk of insolence, as the mayor in question becomes locked and in many cases incapable of implementing the programme for which he was elected, but also the 'CLITHENIS' raised serious questions of democracy, because at the heart of democracy the majority is able to decide and implement the policies for which he was voted on. It also raised serious accountability issues, which is the other side of the currency of democracy. Each local ruler may invoke legislative failures to fulfil his election programme, i.e. use as an alibi the inability to create consensus channels with other municipal groups, ultimately undermining the local interest. For all these reasons, KLITHENIS is nothing but institutional undermining of local government, because ultimately the municipal council is an active administrative body. It shall have the power to take decisions, which shall take effect by means of administrative acts adopted. It takes decisions on the whole range of citizens' daily lives both in the short and long term, the decisions on cleanliness, the enlightenment of our neighborhood, the playground that we all take our children, infrastructure projects. Municipalities have most responsibilities for social welfare. Municipalities and regions manage resources of the NRP and the Recovery Fund will be invited tomorrow to manage significant funds. Local government is organizing and managing today and tomorrow for citizens. And when no decisions are taken and the relevant acts of municipal councils are adopted because some people felt that this is a more representative system, the institution of local government is paralysing, and instead of close to the citizen, we have the exact opposite. We have a real crisis of democracy and a literally finalisation of the institution of local government. The bill under discussion eradicates these institutional distortions, listening to the concerns and suggestions of local government representatives. We put an end to the fragmentation of municipal forces, adjusting the limit of election from the first round to 43%, ensuring the election of three fifths of the municipal council members to the winner of the elections. We provide for the election of councils or presidents of municipal communities throughout the country. We are reintroducing the five-year term, so that mayors and regional leaders have sufficient time to implement their policies, to be able to contribute to their place and to account for their consistency in respect of their pre-election commitments to the public. With the introduction of the mandatory 3% threshold, in order to be able to elect a municipal councillor, there is an important obstacle to the prevalence of extreme elements - right-wing and right-wing - on municipal councils, as, unfortunately, has happened in the past. For us in New Democracy, the institution of local government is not a place of experimentation and the citizens of every municipality, small or large, are not experimental animals. Nor is local government available for communication terminals. In local government problems and struggle to improve the lives of citizens are taking the lead, not the colors or the dividing lines. However, decisions and action are needed rather than disarmament and power. We want and we will work hard for this, for a local government open to cooperation. Of course, we are in favour of consensus and have proved it when in their motto "or end them or end us" we put the interests of the country on the ground. However, we cannot tolerate political bargains in the way we perceive the Realism on the basis of political transactions, such as the SYRIZA ANLE transaction. The bill under discussion does not respond, of course, to all the issues of local government and certainly the multiple issues of local government are not solved only by the achievement of governance. They are not solved, however, without it. We in the New Democracy see this legislative initiative both as a necessary solution to an outstanding and as a bridge, a bridge towards the transition of local government to the new era, at this time of vision and we have included in our political programme. On this new page of local government central pillars is the redefinition of competences, fiscal decentralisation, strengthening social policy services through OTAs, development decentralisation, evaluation by citizens. We can write it together on this page, leaving behind our ideological and party payouts, because in the end our homeland and place are above them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u139	Thank you to Mr Bartzokas and to the consistency in time. Mr. Skourikos Panagiotis has the floor now from SYRIZA. Here, Mr. Darkness, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u140	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, if local democracy is the main cell that is founding and pervading democracy in the wider field of a state, then it is a very important issue to leave it in the hands of legislators who use this cell for party or extravagant benefits. Since December 27, 1833, which was institutionalised by local government in the newly established Greek state, and the municipalities, communities and counties were organised, local government has passed through many forefathers and has been used by many governments to guarantee not democracy, but the long-term day of the rulers. Has local government worked towards serving the interests of society? Yeah, but not always, unfortunately. Of course, there were always self-government enlightened. Nevertheless, historically local government was one of the most popular and representative institutions, despite all the laws and distortions they imposed on the people of self-government, opaque practices that imposed difficulties in controlling, which did not favour accountability. By creating a system of dominance - and we have seen many mayors coming from New Democracy who came and defended this law, because it is the most important law that favours the dominance-centre system - they have, however, canceled the very nature of the democratic cell. At the same time, they fascinated the healers of the institution, to whom powers moved away from lower power and control structures, such as local councils. Isn't that what this bill does? It exacerbates the basis of the democratic functioning of the municipalities, making local councils and presidents of local councils simply decorative or nonexistent. In a violent and undemocratic way, the government takes away all the powers from local communities and acts disastrously in the way of the election of their presidents. Do you really know the position of the people who have voted for New Democracy and who are elected to community councils? If you don't know, I'll let you know that you don't make them happy. How are their protests explained to SYRIZA MPs - Progressive Alliance? Because it is against the law you bring, "so I ask you and SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance to pay special attention," they tell us, "in the bill on change in local government, noting that I would like to protest and that I am opposed to the bill." Of course, there is also the press release of the Steering Committee of the Network of the Communities of Greece, which I deliver for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Panagiotis (Panos) Skouriakos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It is elected, ladies and gentlemen, by a mayor or regional authority in this law if 43% of the votes are held, that is, the four will have absolute power over ten! The four who voted in favour of all six who vote against! Good democratic arithmetic! We have worse, though: The winner of the elections - the one with 43% - guarantees 60% of the seats of municipal or regional councils. Another celebration of this democracy! And because democracy is good, but do not even overdo it, this "excellent" law reduces the members of councils in all regions, in the middle and large municipalities, but also in the majority of communities, in municipal councils, especially in the large urban municipalities. In fact, ladies and gentlemen of the government, can you answer us for the major municipalities, such as the East Attica, how will they be run? For example, Horopos consists of twelve former communities, Dionysus from seven former communities, Saronic from five former communities and so on. Ladies and gentlemen of the government majority, you have brought a local government law that literally cuts its legs. The truth is, you're experts in laws dealing with votes and elections. You're looking for a restriction on democracy everywhere. For the general elections you did not like the law of simple analogy, where all votes are expressed equally and fairly, you changed it, replacing it with a law of enhanced proportionality in your actions. In the vote of the relatives, and here you brought them from here, you brought them from there again, your micro-party interest was served. Really, what's democracy for you? Substance or sign posted on occasion? Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, the label that hides the substance of this law is the word 'governance'. The Members of the New Democracy use an unprecedented term, a neologism and enjoy it in full. For three days, they discovered "governance", "governance". But what does this term describe? As Mr George Papaliou rightly said yesterday, he is not the ruler who can rule, but the one who can be governed. Ladies and gentlemen, the government is ruling, local government is commanding. A little attention, then, to the verbal figures, with which you may be self-satisfied, but cannot deceive the Greek people. With this bill you reveal your negatism to pluralism, representativeness, democracy. However, SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance looking at the future and working with citizens who are interested in the democratic course of this country, is struggling to inform the people and effectively abolish this poor, petty and dangerous local government law. Of course we are also voting against the law. And let us, your "governance", enjoy it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u141	The next speaker is Mr. Ioannis Delis from the Communist Party of Greece. Here, Mr. Delis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u142	Thank you, Mr President. Is the way and the system in which mayors and municipal councils are elected important? Of course it is very serious, because it is not at all a bit - quite the opposite! - to ensure that all votes are equal. And that, as we all know, is only achieved with a simple and unadulterated proportion. But it is precisely here that it is always exhausted from the point of view of the people's interests, and the offer of mere analogy, at the rate of voting, that is, nothing more, despite the majorities of the SYRIZA, which is enough to proclaim it even in a lever of democratic, as it says, changes. Those who say this as if they do not know that in the elections the will and the expression of the people suffers a lot of obvious or unsatisfactory pressures and extortion or even threats, things exist in the political system of a exploited society, such as capitalist, such as the one we live in. So in order to explain, despite the fact that we, as a JRC, are in time and consistently in favour of genuine simple analogy, at the same time we do not forget that none, but no electoral system is ever enough on its own to relieve the people of their problems. Of course, when we call it the SYRIZA electoral system of L.4555/2018, with which the municipal elections took place, the local elections in 2019 and which now come to replace it with old type of collapsible provisions, New Democracy was not exactly the simple analogue, since it kept intact and fully in place one of the main political tools of post-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-municipal elections, i.e. the election blackmailing of the second round of local elections. And they come to dance and go up to this Step by SYRIZA MPs and appear as a democratic, he says, a right to choose this shameful election blackmail with the false dilemmas that have lived on their side now decades left and progressive people! Mercy! However, Minister, in no case does this mean that these clear contradictions of the SYRIZA have the habit of always stepping on two boats, it does not give you any moral or political right, in New Democracy, to impose either the arbitrary limit of 3% on the election of a municipality or of a region or the callothene - because they are - 60% of the seats with 43% of the votes, that is to say, a lot less electoral percentage. And all that in the name, he says, of the rulership, even of the non-dissolution of the municipalities. In fact, a New Democracy MEP spoke of a "bomb" on the foundations of local government. Naturally, this issue of cybercrificy has never arisen, as has recent experience. And it is not only that in Thessaloniki, for example, the second municipality of the country, like elsewhere, found it fine and tsaka tsaka among them the ballots of the conservative space and formed the new administration of the municipality, the one that is now, but it is something else. All this crying of the New Democracy about the so-called insolence of the municipalities, and it has no basis and is hypocritical. Because very simply, as you all know, in all these memorandum laws that all of them still apply, even if the memoranda expired, there are all those security controls - and there are too many - with the first and best economic monitoring of the municipalities, things that guarantee and guarantee the rule of law for the municipalities, namely the anti-popular operation of the municipalities with the most suffocating financial control by the central state. And all that, you know, is still happening and valid, regardless of the electoral system that is in place every time in the municipal elections and which may change. And don't tell us these triumphant, all of you do that, about the so-called character of local issues, which very much dictates both your compositions and your partnerships. Are we really asking you, do you know that there is even a local issue that does not depend on the central policy pursued? I am sorry, but what policy is being implemented at local level? Isn't the general anti-Hallian government policy implemented every time? Is there someone else going through this? And because I know what you're thinking, it's another thing to recognize it in order to confuse it, as the Communist mayors do, and it's another thing to hide it and mock the so-called local issues. But, let's see, really, what you're changing now from this SYRIZA law of 2018, which you so accuse the government majority. You don't think you're pulling him out, do you? If that's possible! The state, as you say and mean it, has all the time. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] All you're changing from SYRIZA's current law is just what's on the electoral system. All the rest of the prefecture of SYRIZA remains in full force with the "drug" of the New Democracy, and let it not be voted on at that time. Does this not confirm the strategic coexistence of the New Democracy with SYRIZA, both generally and specifically in local government? Because, you know, an important issue is not only how a mayor or a municipal council is elected, but also important, not to say more importantly, it is also what this mayor will do, in what context can he carry out his work, by what means, and above all, to the benefit of whom? The large majority or the few major entrepreneurs? And here, things are clear. If we put aside the electoral system, which each government is "drawing it", according to its own tastes and interests, let us listen a little to those who see us, but also to those in here who represent the disabled and the dissidents, to what you, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy agree with you, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA and KINAL. You agree that municipalities work not as public utilities, but as businesses, like shops. And that's what SYRIZA's "KLITHENIS".
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u143	Mr. Delia, please finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u144	I will end in a minute, Mr President. Thank you. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] So, the citizens who pay apart from the centrals, and a lot of municipal taxes and fees, turn them into direct customers of the municipalities, obliging them to pay food at municipal schools, tickets to all kinds of sports infrastructures, such as gyms and swimming pools, subscriptions to municipal cultural schools such as music, dancing, etc. You therefore agree that all your main revenues should be taken directly from their citizens' pockets in the sense of inefficiency and that the State grant should fall to a mere supplementary payment, both and as long as it takes, the budgets of the municipalities should be balanced. You also agree with the arrangements of this SYRIZA Act of 2018 on the exploitation of the so-called ‘local property of OTAs’, which opens the way for so-called investors to exploit any municipal property in the long term. You want more? Isn't this all enough to show that all this New Democracy bracelet with SYRIZA about the integrity of the municipalities looks like a granule in the glass?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u145	Finish it, Mr. Delia.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u146	All this, of course - and I close, Mr President - explain why you have all rejected the JRC's proposal in the recent revision of the Constitution, which had a constitutional obligation on the State to ensure the necessary money to municipalities with funding only through the state budget. All this, of course, is leading us to vote against today's bill, from which there is nothing good for people's families to expect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u147	Mrs Brysidou has the floor now from New Democracy. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u148	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, first and second degree self-government is the most closest to the citizen, who serves everyday life and gives solutions to the issues that arise in every local society. First and second degree self-government is the place where we can highlight the advantages and we can draw the course of a country's development and progress. The first and second degrees of selfgovernment are a difficult and complex area. He's got a lot of responsibilities. It must ensure public health, protect citizens from fires and floods, improve the quality of their lives, facilitate travel by building roads, support farmers by building irrigation and dams, build schools and children's stations, maintain existing for students and young children. All this is not an easy process, nor is it done by simply drawing up an action plan or by tabling a technical programme or budget. Studies need to be carried out, mature, exploring financial programmes, incorporating projects, auctioning, construction, and then the municipal authority should ensure the smooth operation of all structures. SYRIZA's government underestimated this function. He thought it was simple and could be done with a municipal authority simply by means of the forced cooperation of different factions. But what programme will be implemented? What priorities will be given? Under what conditions will these partnerships become? So how can self-government function? Ladies and gentlemen, in all the laws of self-government, which I served for more than twenty years and have been mayor, I expressed my opposition as president of the Western Macedonia WPD, along with the overwhelming majority of my colleagues, before the resolution of the 'KLITHENH' law and I have to say that self-government is not an area where we express our ideas and our views from whatever perspective we think, but it is an area of direct action and effectiveness. In order to be able to do this, it needs to be strong, to have self-reliance, to be operational, so that it can be effective. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law which comes to the vote is in the right direction because it sets 43%. Do you think it's a small percentage of 43% of a combination that has to deal with other combinations, not only mayors, but municipal councillors, whole groups? It is a very large number and whoever takes 43% really expresses the will of local society and we must give him the right to function, so that we do not trouble the citizens in elections to a second Sunday, not, of course, when this is a smaller number. The three-five-five-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three is also a bonus necessary to enable it to function. The fact that it has been extended for five years is also in the right direction, because, as I said before, a comprehensive cycle for the production of work for the benefit of the citizens takes a long time and the longer it is and reasonable, the more it will be the production of the project. Of course, the government and the Ministry bring the bill two years before the elections, when there is no provision for where the trends will fluctuate, because it is not interested in political purposes, but is concerned with the proper functioning of the government. You should know, ladies and gentlemen, that mayors do not elect the electoral systems, but citizens. However, when there are malfunctioning systems, they can create obstacles to operation. And that is what is trying to do with this bill that comes to a vote to abolish the malfunctions that led to a reduction in the value of self-government and too many obstacles. Selfgovernment today finds itself in a great challenge. He's interested in changing this law. He has expressed it before his vote. It has expressed its opposition to the adoption of the 'Classhen' law and almost all of the self-government has been expressed in a positive direction for this law. He's waiting for him, because the next day is gonna be a better day for self-government. It will be possible to operate, there will be growth. The New Democracy is interested in strong self-government and supports it. It has been demonstrated from the first day with the amendments it has put forward to deal with the deadlocks, which are many more than with the previous government. The New Democracy is interested in a strong self-government. He believes that strong self-government means strong citizens and strong citizens means strong and modern Greece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u149	Thank you, Mrs. Brysidou. The next speaker is Mr Eleftherios Avramakis from SYRIZA to conclude the ninth cycle of speakers. We will continue with Mr. Fotilla and Mr. Psychoyo and then follow up. Here, Mr. Avramakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u150	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, the samples of government writing on respect for democratic procedures are clear and show that the New Democracy is increasingly focusing on opacity practices, limiting public dialogue, concealing all kinds of criticism, avoiding any consultation that can demonstrate its true distance from society. The limitation of the House and the way in which the centrally controlled vote pretexts pandemics, incredible volumes, number and value of direct awards, the absence of any dialogue on issues that cause society, the obsession with the logic of "decide and order" that reminds us of outdated practices of maladministration of companies, are the rule of this retrograde neoliberal government. The New Democracy, with this bill, is coming to catalyse virtually every democratic acquis in terms of how local and regional authorities can be raised. Once again the government, and Mr Voridis in particular, bring in a bill for which practically no consultation has been held. This bill does not solve any of the essential problems faced by municipalities and regions. It is a slip to authoritarianism, wanting to form absolute principles in local government. The New Democracy is unfortunately turning into a political area that cannot tolerate different voices, cannot pursue wider consensus, cannot function democratically. The government, after a coup d'état then altered the popular will, giving an absolute majority to the electorate, after depriving any possibility of creative consultation, even at the level of local communities, and after depriving the sovereign in the other municipal council now comes to annul even the prediction that the mayor or regional mayor should be elected at least 50% +1. After all, it is preferable for the New Democracy that the municipalities are completely governed by the fact that the citizens show those factions and those political and municipal advisors who can cooperate, even if they come from different political areas. The lack of confidence shown by the New Democracy in the citizens' crisis goes beyond any previous and, of course, is in complete contrast to the constant invoicing of the individual responsibility of the people who have become viral by government officials for all its failures in the past year. The New Democracy's proposal for electoral law continues the anti-democratic diversion that began with Mr. Theodorikos' first legislation in August 2019. Since then it has systematically demolished the institutional democratic conquests of local government since 1974. In summary, the Theodorikou Act had effectively abolished municipal and regional councils, removing all the main responsibilities, except for the adoption of the budget, and entrusted them to the mayor, the district manager and the committee controlled by them. In practice, it violates not only the European Charter of Local autonomy, but it also overturns the Greek self-government acquis, according to which the main decision-making bodies are the collective bodies of selfgovernment, namely the municipality and the regional council. Invoking the pandemic also allows the Economic Commissions, given the majority of the mayors, to proceed to the awards of millions, uncontrolled recruitment of temporary staff, the creation of development agencies, programme contracts and so on. In an anti-institutional and anti-constitutional way, it gradually changed the arrangements for intra-democratic decentralisation provided for by "CLITHEN I" by removing powers from local communities and changing the way in which their presidents were elected. Overall, it prevented the application to administrations of the Local Government Institutions (a) and (b) of the new framework provided for by the mere proportional system. He overthrown it in practice by claiming that it would be invincible. Before taking over the new self-government authorities in September 2019 he replaced it with a centralized, completely dominating, opaque decision-making system. Now by the particular proposed law of Voridis it establishes an absolute majority system, where with 43% the first combination can elect 60% of the advisers, the mayor and the district manager. It is an unprecedented pan-European electoral arrangement that comes to abolish the moderate electoral system defined by "KLITHENI I" that concerned the mere proportional election of advisors and the majority of the system in the emergence of mayors and regional authorities as a first step in a series of broader reforms in self-government related to responsibilities, resources, operational reinforcement of TATs. It effectively eliminates the self-sufficiency of local communities - localities call them - since it obliges their candidates to hang under a municipal combination and depend on the central effect of the municipalities. It abolishes, in other words, the third call which enabled thousands of citizens to participate actively in local affairs and local events. It sets 3% as an entry limit to the distribution of seats, preventing the representation of small local powers. The regulation is completely outrageous, since the bill provides for the mayor to have three fifths of all the advisors elected. It reduces the number of consultants in all regions, in the major municipalities, but also in the majority of communities, half-weightly and on average 15% following the legislative improvements you have put forward, thus highlighting the oligarchy of the Right for democracy and the functioning of local bodies. The fewer people deal with the audiences so much the best for you. On the contrary, it increases the number of nominations to 150% of each OTA seats. This is combined with the obligation to present candidates to 80% of the municipal communities. This is intended to create obstacles to exclude a combination of the elections. It is clear that the proposed draft law seeks to establish and consolidate an authoritarian, opaque system of governance of the municipalities and regions, fully controlled by the conservative faction. The aim is to exclude the progressive forces from the majority of OTAs according to the saying of Mr Voridis "to take institutional measures in the direction of not ruling again". About the legislative improvements you have brought little change in the overall picture of the bill. It is worth noting the government's dismay against the concept of communism, as the changes provided for in the relevant provisions and despite the number of reactions created by the abolition of the third ballot are in the hands. The changes you bring together satisfy a request from the CEDEFOP as formulated in the hearing of bodies held in Attica's CEDEFOP, reintroduced to Article 4 of the abolition of municipal communities in the municipalities of Attica. From there and after the reductions in the number of members of the municipal and regional councils, the government makes a slight retreat as we have said. On the one hand, one more demand from the CEDEFOP is being made, and on the other hand, there is a small increase compared to the forecasts of the bill of the number of municipal councillors in the municipalities with more than a hundred and fifty thousand inhabitants. In fact, it concerns only four municipalities with a population of between a hundred and a hundred thousand and a half inhabitants, and also, with the relevant corrective movements, the reduction in the number of members of the boards as we have told you is going mid-weight to 15%, but without changing the government's political perception of involving citizens in the public. With regard to Article 15, which is essential, and in Article 30, which concerns a lot of people, the government is retreating from its initial intention to raise to EUR 80 the amount required for each candidate municipal councillor by maintaining it at EUR 50 and, of course, Article 30 is, unfortunately, changing in hand, the possibility for small communities with a population of up to three hundred presidents to elect the first cross candidate for the combination that took most of the votes within the community and not the candidate who took most of the crosses, regardless of the combination as planned so far in the draft law. This is a minor change, but it is indicative that the government is legislating on the basis of micro-political goals and pressures from local players. In conclusion, unfortunately, the vast majority of the mayors and regional authorities of the central institutions of the CEDEFOP and HNPE were in favour of the main provisions of the bill, and this is based on the fact that the results of the 2019 municipal and regional elections allow the basically ‘blue mayors’ elected mayors. Of course, there have been remarkable reactions - and we must stress them - to several municipal councils and to two regional councils, those of the Peloponnese and Western Greece, which largely disagreed with the proposed electoral law. However, there was mainly a large inter-transitional reaction of local consultants across Greece. Despite the trivial improvements you have brought, however, and the retreats you have made, the bill is deeply undemocratic and anti-democratic. SYRIZA's promise - Progressive Alliance is that through an open real dialogue with all social self-government progressive forces and within the framework of a comprehensive reform for a strong decentralisation of the electoral system established today by the New Democracy will change. Abhorrent majority voting systems cannot be long-term. Democracy in the end will win. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u151	Good. The President of the Parliamentary Group of the Change Movement, Mr Gennimata, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u152	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the exacerbation of serious crime shakes the sense of security of the Greek people. This is the truth and no propaganda and no communication show on the part of the government can hide it. The doctrine of "law and order" we all understood during this period that it was limited to dealing with students and protesters. We had to have all these heinous murders in the streets of Athens to get out of the government, apparently, of the lethargy. We heard the Minister responsible say he declared the war to be a serious crime and it seemed like an amazing news. I wonder what he's done so far. They had a truce? Did they find them? Listen, Minister, this is: Your Government and the various ministers should leave the game "to whom to leave the pussy behind", because now is the time for action, it is time to rethink the operational mechanisms and strengthen the cooperation of the prosecution authorities, with the recruitment of police officers, with patrolling and patrolling at night hours, by mobilizing the mechanisms for tracing black money and all its corrupt supporters. Only in this way, Minister, will we be able to win the war with organised crime and will the citizens be able to feel safe again in Greece. Everything else is about consumption and we're full of words! Now you're judged every day and every minute for what you don't do. It took about eight months for the government to decide to bring the Golden Dawn amendment, and indeed, without consultation. I would just remind you that I had proposed this right after the trial and condemnation of the Golden Dawn and had called for the activation of all the wings of this House. The law is necessary. There is no doubt about it and we will vote for the arrangements. But it's not good enough. To erupt every fascist paranormal, it takes work to realize that there is no room in Greece for fascists either in politics or anywhere. I come to an amendment - and I will then speak in detail about the bill, as you can see - really unacceptable, for the TIADE, which we are voting against. The government continues its policy of handing over the public property to private interests, just as we denounced in the previous period that it is doing with ELPE. But you forget, Minister, that the HICP is a special-purpose company that manages public-owned property. He doesn't manage your own property. So these unacceptable interventions have been requested for many years since the establishment of the surplus fund, but they have not been accepted. Now, of course, the Government of the "Principalists" of the New Democracy is rushing to adopt the most provocative requirements against the interests of the Greek people, reaffirming once again what we have said about the way it works and the role of "Maximos SA". For us, it is not enough to vote unequivocally against this unacceptable and provocative amendment. The big scandal is the very existence and operation of the superstition on this basis. We have called for its abolition and for national sovereignty to finally be restored to the question of the exploitation of public property. Not a sale, but a real use of public property. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] We're going to keep him up and escalate him. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating another government bill that confirms how centralized it is. What does it need today for self-government? A real change that will make the transition from the current centralised and inefficient model to a truly modern state, to a multi-level and digital governance, with the central state, as I said, to a strategic and final role - nothing in relation to the state of New Democracy - without party interventions, with full transparency in all its decisions, by transferring all executive powers and corresponding resources to self-government, of course - because this is always the problem - by promoting the economic self-reliance of the OTFs in the context of tax decentralisation, with the first step in the transfer of the ETUC and, of course, by strengthening the legacy of the hereditaries and an electoral system that safeguards the democratic process, strengthen public participation and especially at the same time ensure governance. We wanted a law like this today. We wanted to! After the major legislative areas of the "KEYSTITRIA" and "KALIKARATI", which strengthened self-government by new responsibilities, it is time for the third wave of changes for us. Changes that will act on the new social and development role of self-government at both local and regional level and enhance transparency, operation, citizen service, provision of health and social welfare services, the possibility of dealing with natural disasters. Your government, however, cannot and above all, does not want. He doesn't want to give authority to the elected. He just wants to control them and subdue them to the deep party state. That was always the right-wing policy. That's who you were. That's who you were. You haven't changed at all since your resignation wanted the mayors to deal only with garbage and cemeteries. You never believed in decentralisation and self-government. You have always voted against all the major areas and major reforms that brought PASOK. Because only PASOK has made serious areas and reforms in this area too. It is no coincidence that you have also disappeared from the well-advertised conclusion of the Continental Committee on State Change and it is no coincidence that the regions and the concept of'regional development' are completely absent from the Dog Plan, from the government's plan to make use of the resources of the Recovery Fund. But let us remember this a little. The New Democracy 2006 with Law 3463 deals only with the election of municipal and regional authorities and legislates the 42% limit. SYRIZA then introduces the simple analogue and creates the catastrophic and scrupulous situations that we have experienced during the elections of the self-government, but also after the elections. The law, of course, was not about the democratic functioning of the municipalities, it was no reform, but it was essentially about the implementation of a policy of burnt land by a government that was on the way. The new Republic, again, legislates only for the electoral system, giving the executive powers, given the majority of it to them and, of course, undermines and weakens the role of municipal councils. The cycle is completed with the New Democracy to substantially restore the Pavlopoulou law on the electoral system. The policies of the New Democracy and SYRIZA prove both sides of the same currency. Their interest is not in the institution and its role, but in its control through a convenient electoral system every time. SYRIZA and 'Blue SYRIZA' cannot make reforms and pursue progressive policies. These are deeply conservative policies, they are policies of yesterday. Ladies and gentlemen, we had voted against both the law of SYRIZA and the law of New Democracy. During the debate on 'CLINHENS', we had raised the three main criteria for a new electoral system as part of a reform, that we saw it. I stress it because it's a very big difference how we see things about self-government and how you see them. Firstly, strong municipal and regional authorities. Secondly, democratically legitimised municipal and regional authorities. And thirdly, procedures for strengthening popular participation. On the basis of these criteria and principles, the law brought by the New Democracy cannot be accepted and, as you can see, we are voting against it. Because, first, the election of mayor or regional mayor at 43% in the first round deprives the strong democratic legitimacy that gives 50%+1. The argument that with 43% of a party may govern itself is completely irrelevant to the functioning of self-government. The systems of governance and co-legislation between state and municipality are completely different and in any case the mayor is a single representative body. Secondly, the very adoption of 43% for election, in conjunction with the provision for the over-reinforced majority of three-fifths of the seats of the municipal or regional council is an open challenge, Minister, and it shows you irreparably. We're talking about authoritarian overconcentration. Real representativeness goes for a walk. Thirdly, the reduction of elected representatives in municipal and regional councils is also a negative option. It significantly limits the involvement and representation of citizens, but also the necessary renewal of the institutions. It is also difficult to operate municipal councils because of the need to staff the legal persons of the municipalities and of the ten committees provided for in the legislation. And don't tell us now about the economy that you've been out of commission and procedures completely out of procedure all this time as a government, in the name of pandemic, of course. Fourthly, the 3% threshold for representation of a combination in the boards deprives the possibility of representing adequate shapes created by local societies. And fifthly, we point to the other governmental handling of the issue of communities. After successive sewings - you have dismantled into a legal intervention that dissolves every concept of intra-democratic decentralisation and alters the expression of local societies. Finally, the bill ignores the necessary institutional and democratic counterweights to exist in self-government, such as participatory accountability, transparency, the functioning of social control, concepts that reverse the deeply conservative concept of the New Democracy. And I would like, ladies and gentlemen, to clarify our own approach to the system for the election of municipal and regional councils. We say no to the simple analogue that leads to bazaars, to transactions and to the creation of a ultimately fragile majority. But we also say not to the falsification of the popular vote which the New Democracy is trying to do today. Cannot a mayor who in the first round took 20% -25% of the votes finally had 60% of the board. It's a direct alteration of popular will. It would make sense a proposal that combines the two needs of democracy and governance. A proposal that will not deprive all people of enthusiasm who really want to offer their place, but can be expressed, to exist within municipal councils. So the elected mayor, or the district mayor, with 50%+1 of the votes in the first and second rounds, ensure a minimum of 50%+1 of the seats and add additional seats in step if his combination exceeds a percentage, for example more than 35% in the first round. We could discuss what that figure is. But I have another logic that, as I said, can combine democracy and governance. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are fighting our battle against the government's effort to control and manipulate self-government. In society, we are fighting to unite the productive forces of the place into a goal of development everywhere, growth for all. As we stress in our programme, in the "Project Greece", in the new green social contract, our own narrative, there can be no productive reconstruction and an increase in the growth rate of Greece if the regions of Greece are not found with a development identity at the heart of the changes. A change in the pattern of production and development can be made in the region. The municipality can be designed to mobilise all these forces that are now fragmented. In self-government can be organised effectively and we need the social state better than any other level. The enhanced role of self-government has to do with the very quality of democracy, with the service of the citizen, with regional development and social solidarity. It's a fine letter now you tell me, it's none of your business. You're interested in this, see how we're going to control more and more municipalities and regions, do the work that the Minister wants, or rather, fix, the Prime Minister. Because the Prime Minister decides everything in this government.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u153	Is it bad?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u154	Yes, it's a little strange for the ministers to be puppets and for everything to decide on Maximus. If you don't mind, it's your right. You're judging about all this. So we also believe that this is why we are struggling and calling on the elected representatives of this country to defend both self-government and self-government and the course of the country and to fight together for the purpose of regional development, which is the only chance we can keep in our place and our children. Be well, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u155	Thank you, Mrs. Gennamas. Mr Fotilles Iason has the floor now from New Democracy. After Mr. Fotila it will be Mr. Psychogios, Mr. Nicholas, Mr. Constantopoulos and Mr. Santorinios. It's the first five of the tenth-cycle speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u156	Thank you, Mr President. Madam President, I wonder whether you are going to be a Prime Minister tomorrow if you are going to maintain a minister who is going to do the opposite to what you are saying in the name of democracy. You'll have trouble ruling, I'll tell you right now. Now, let's start with the basics. Are we surprised today by this bill? Does the bill make us, even to the slightest, inconsistent with our election commitments? The exact opposite. The bill comes to literally apply the election announcements of the New Democracy in relation to the issue. At least that is why we are proud of the fact that we are legislating precisely what we have committed in the run-up to elections and not for others, what we have called for the Greek people's vote and he has given it to us. Because, how to do this, this is the right thing, the consistent, the political orthodox, to do what you were saying and not others. On substance now, although more fundamental than political consistency, when the law of simple analogy was passed, we warned you that the bill you brought would lead with mathematical accuracy to the dominance of municipalities and regions. It was obvious, as it is obvious, that it was the request for you. You on the other hand said that our claims are impatient, that everything will be fine. Well, today we don't talk speculation, we don't think it's possible. We have tangible results, which lead to concrete conclusions. And the basic conclusion is one: the application of the simple proportional led municipalities and regions to a state of government with disastrous consequences for the citizens themselves. In one third of the country's municipalities, the elected mayor has a minority of municipal councillors as a result of the implementation of SYRIZA's simple proportionality. Does that make any problems? The truth is, it only creates problems. And the local rulers come, the President of the CEDEFOP itself to confirm together the impossibility of exercising the policy for which they were voted on by the electorate. This is because the mere analogy with the distribution of the seats of the municipal and regional council was voted with delusion and appropriateness. In fact, it was voted to block decisions to force mayors and district rulers to subject themselves to compromises and sometimes blackmails of those who were beaten. But the short-sighted policy, the mere analogous one, so short-sighted that it was only interested in the next elections, worked with consequences, worked and operated at the expense of the proper and effective functioning of local government. It significantly undermines the interests of the citizens. Many municipalities lost money from large and important programs. Others ended up failing to present budgets, and significant decisions have never been made. And all this because of the hostage that the simple analogy has brought about. To reach and see phenomena and situations, at least paradoxical and certainly unprecedented: Mayor appeal to the decentralised administration against a decision of his own municipal council. I read it recently. It happened, he says, with the mayor of Kavala, who, according to his words, offended a decision of his municipal council when this voted for the opposition's proposal, and in practice it was possible to implement it. However, our SYRIZA has become accustomed to the paradoxes, the stumbling blocks, the 'cutters'. That is why, recently - yesterday - it also voted against the facilitation of the vote by the President of the Greek Parliament, easily negligent on the part of the Head of Division. On the other hand, by abolishing the abortion of simple proportionally, we are creating the preconditions for restoring rulership to the municipalities and regions of the country. We ensure that local government operates effectively and in favour of all citizens. It is incomprehensible to transfer the powers of the city council concerned to the respective economic committee, where the elected mayors have the majority in order to take decisions directly and quickly. It undermines the role of the municipal council, despises its decisive competence. That is why this draft law ensures the election of three fifths of the board members to the election winner. In addition, the electoral threshold applies to 43% plus one vote from the first round, and the 3% threshold for the right to elect a municipal or regional combination is set. You have accused us of this and, ladies and gentlemen, we have had a difficult time involving other factions, that we are doing so, in order to make alternative voices. First of all, you are judging the odds, because these are your own, exclusively tactics. But to meet you or rather remind you that 3% of municipal or regional elections are in line with the 3% in the parliamentary elections for reasonable reasons. In any case, however, you have no reason to worry. We ensure the percentage you usually have, that of 3%, and that of self-government. So you have no reason to worry. Now, beyond the jokes, what does that limit serve? The introduction of 3% recommends a particularly important intervention of this bill, because no few municipal groups recommend forms that do not represent or express a minimum basis for society. Because some want to be elected, not to do something or to present a project, but simply to prevent the other one from doing so. It is those combinations that put candidates in the self-government elections for the sole purpose of showing one on the board, so that he can simply haggle. Well, this bill restores normality. There is also a five-year term to allow voters to assess the work of the elected mayor or regional director within a reasonable period of time. For the preparation and declaration of the combinations, the final date shall be 31 August of the year of the elections and 10 September for the proclamation of them by the competent court. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. The aim is twofold: on the one hand, there is a full control of the electoral costs, on the other hand, candidates must be informed in time to the electorate. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, the abolition of simple proportionality is now an urgent need for the municipalities and regions to be detached from interoperability for the benefit of the public interest. We must help local authorities to respond promptly and effectively to the needs and demands of local society. The bill is moving in the right direction and it is to the benefit of all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u157	The next speaker is Mr George Psychogios from SYRIZA. You have the floor, Mr. Psychoyotus.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u158	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, as early as August 2019, you have rushed to abolish a electoral system that has not been implemented, but you have prescribed that it will fail. And I would prefer and would like the majority Members to be more honest and to say, for example, that workers will be paid off instead of salary or that the hospitals who took the weight and the workers in the health system will be forced to participate, as the Prime Minister said, with the private clinicians of the millions of pandemic or, as you said, quite rightly, according to your own logic - 'we will take all those institutional measures so that the Left does not come back to power again'. That could be the title of the bill. But instead, they tell us about prudence. Where did they see her if she was working or not, if the system expanded, or if there were the alliances? When did she get to get flesh and bones, or just proportionally? There have been further excuses. You have rooted out the responsibilities of municipal and regional councils, making the advisory bodies and turning the OTAs into mono-faced bodies. There are municipal councils and also the Peloponnese Regional Council, who are right-wing leaders, where they denounce you of this anti-democratic practice. You have not taken it into consideration. This is a provocative and unacceptable centralised system that does not apply to another country in Europe and also violates the basic principles of the European Charter of Local Government of the Council of Europe. Three questions about the new system: Question One: In what other country does the person who gets 43% in the first round receive 60% of the seats? There is no way of solving cyberproficiency problems, if any, with such an enhanced majority system that will bring pressure elsewhere. And I explain: Instead of going to a consensual effort, so that we have a fair representation of the popular will at a local level, we are leaving and transferring a correlation procedure within the first ballot behind closed doors, with the head being hostage and pressures and interests. And because some have talked about trade and interests in the simple analogues, they probably judge the odds of what has been happening for decades - not all of them, obviously, the mayors supported by the New Democracy, but by several - and they are well-known. The simple analogue that it promotes is the programmatic shocks beforehand. And so alone, distortions can be lifted in the alliances that have been heard and indeed have been in many levels. Only that way. And as the simple analogue went, it would pay more and more, because it is obviously a system for which education is needed and self-government and society. But we had to invest in this to remove all these phenomena of the pathogens of decades that you cultivated and led to many bankruptcy. From 2010 to 2019 there were more than fifty cases in the two self-government terms that were abolished by their majorities, not for political reasons as well as for reasons of interest. And you're telling us that you're gonna come and solve it now and in the worst way, bringing back a system that only existed since 2006. Question two: What is the reason why you set the 3% threshold in elections to the ATT? You haven't answered that. Are you afraid that the municipality of Corinthians, for example, would be able to take the vote on a one-thematic ballot? What's the stake? Why do you raise such serious issues of democracy, representation and portrayal of the will of citizens? There's an answer for that. You have an allergy to these. It is an ideological and deeply strategic issue and I shall refer to it below. Question 3: Why do you want to reduce the number of municipal and regional councils? Obviously, this is your strategy. And it is another thing to say, Minister, as the Left says, 'we think globally and act locally' - so there is political dimension - and it is another thing that you are doing here. What are you doing here? You're turning OTAs into a central political controversy, purely party. Obviously, I repeat, there are programmatic disagreements, there are positions on the municipal councils, on the regional councils, and we are talking about them. But you obviously do not understand how the institution of self-government and communities works. Self-government must have proximity bodies and institutions so that it can approach the problem that it will communicate and resolve. By abolishing the call for the election of presidents and councillors of communities, all you will achieve is to remove even more the inhabitants of small and remote regions from self-government. Many young people had dealt with this system with the public. You discourage them, then. You have already done so, by altering the popular will, as soon as you have taken on government, with any unconstitutionality, if necessary, by abolishing the separate call for the institutions of the communities and tailing them to the central ballot. I'm on my way. A final mess with the responsibilities associated with many areas, but above all with the Civil Protection. I'll talk about it because of your excellence, Corinthia has suffered for the last two years. Last year’s fire in Athikia, this year in Shino, thousands of acres burned with bucket responsibilities and first - line people attempting without design and means. Corinthia, like other municipalities, remember what was done in the SYRIZA government with the funding and resources they received, because the projects that are being done today are one of this money, amid memorial tombs and then, that we sent to the municipalities and regions. "PILUBLIC I, II" and many other financial instruments. That's what they remember, obviously. I will also say that we are not the same, as it has been said. We're two worlds with the New Democracy. The JRC cannot say that we have done exactly the same or acted in the same way, or that we have a policy that is identical. They should ask Mr Peletidis if he took projects, funds and what direction the SYRIZA government would be then. So the Minister, in this bill, condemns the country in an undemocratic manner. We are going to face-to-face and not collective bodies, we are discredited by the institution of self-government further, and we must make our moves towards it. Revoking the democratic functioning of self-government, strengthening of citizens' participation, as well as strategic upgrading of municipal infrastructure, social policy structures and recruitment of permanent posts, as we have done in previous years, so that self-government can develop. [[At this point, the President-in-Office takes over by Z' Vice-President EpostOLOS ABDELAS]] I shall close, Mr President, by saying this. This system will change and will not only change from us, it will change from society and self-government itself. You, Mr Vorides, fear the initiatives and civil movements, underestimate the maturity of society and target them. Fear the representation you want to control, the activation of citizens. You want agents and agents in the province. You want full control from the local president to the district manager, to pass your deep anti-grassroots policies and privatizations. You think you'll make it. But keep in mind that you will receive an answer and it will be a resounding answer to what you are struggling with, to turn self-government and society into the administration, to assign, to non-direct participation, to the tactics that led to bankruptcy. We, with all the means available, will strive to prevent this, putting people in the sense of participation, with the progressive forces, the left forces, the movements and democratic citizens. Keep in mind that society in what you are going to legislate has left you behind. You will see this and some colleagues will leave about 3%. 3%, which becomes 33% and 43%, as your limit, in the central elections you will soon see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u159	Thank you, too. Mr. Andreas Nikolakopoulou is called at Stepma from the New Democracy and the Tower of Ilias.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u160	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are called on to discuss and vote for an important bill focusing on self-government, one of the main pillars of democracy and the country's governance. The involvement and quote of proposals and ideas of local societies in all issues concerning them is a basic principle of our democratic culture. A modern society, to have stable time, must do for the benefit of its citizens. For this to happen, municipal and regional authorities must be given the opportunity to take decisions, expressing the will of the majority of citizens. The implementation of Law 4555/2018 introduced by SYRIZA to the latest self-government elections has caused many problems, notably in implementing the so-called mere proportional to the distribution of the seats of the municipal and regional council. It is a law that has created more obstacles to the administration of local authorities than it was supposed to solve, but also more obstacles to elected mayors and regional managers to pursue an effective policy for the benefit of their fellow citizens. An electoral law that he has only done is to favour minorityness and not all individuals making up society, but also to hamper decision-making. Ladies and gentlemen, in a neutral political time, with the security of time from the upcoming self-government elections and without any micro-political feasibility, we restore with this draft law the rational distribution of seats in place before 2019, putting an end to SYRIZA's intergovernmentality, with the aim of restoring the orderly functioning and balance between local and regional authorities and the whole of the councils. The role of elected representatives in a municipality is clear. In every democratic society there is a key manager of matters. As parliamentarians who are involved in decision-making for the benefit of society through the most democratic institution, Parliament must, accordingly, promote the most effective decision-making process in the other institutions of society. You will allow me a brief reference, in particular, to the most crucial points of this bill, which are fundamentally changing the plan of local government. Mayors and districtlors who will emerge from the October 2023 elections will have a full five-year term of office starting on 1 January 2024. This will make it easier to show and carry out the work of each mayor and periphery, because it is often observed that the works of the former are carried out and that there is no clear picture among the citizens about each other's work, and even the non-completion of projects is sometimes observed because of disagreement. The limit of election from the first round is adjusted to 43%, while the first in combination votes ensures three-fifths of the members of the Board. At the same time, a 3% threshold is set for the right to elect a municipal or regional councillor, independent of the number of members of the board concerned and in line with the applicable limit for national elections, because we cannot accept that a government and a majority of the parliament can be formed with 43% and a minimum percentage for representation in parliament 3%, and that is not possible in the municipal or regional council. After all, the Qualified Opposition also exploited the majority system, to be found twice in power, and at a rate of less than 40% and with a government coalition. Why, then, is the majority system blocking the cooperation between combinations? Programmatic convergence and cooperation cannot be carried out as a matter of urgency and as a result of the political system, because it results in dangerous effects. Hazardous effects, such as those of SYRIZA - ANEL government. It must be the result of substantial programming convergence in a specific direction and purpose. But let us remember what problems the implementation of the system that SYRIZA brought to local government has caused. In the Municipality of Thessaloniki the mayor was elected on the second Sunday at 66.8%, but has only 7 out of 49 municipal seats. In the Municipality of Orestiada, the mayor was elected on the first Sunday at more than 50%, but has no majority on the municipal council. I shall mention another example, however, from the Municipality of Kavala, where the mayor, a fiancée of the simple analogy, was elected on the second Sunday at 63% and elected nine of the forty-one municipal council advisers and due to the lack of a majority vote on the municipal council a proposal to participate in a European programme of EUR 4 million. More generally, we are all aware of the problems and I do not think that we need to set out examples of our country's history before the Migration, but also of modern European history in countries where the simple analogue has been applied. In other words, simple analogue is another left-wing myth, an ideal that he used, to create a chaos in local government and thus try to control it, in fact, indifferent to the resolution of regional problems. Ladies and gentlemen, yet another important regulation is the provision for a final date for training and a statement of the combinations by 31 August of the year of the election so that the competent court can declare them on 10 September. In this way, we are still dealing with a problem of the electoral process, the candidates are given more time to prepare and hold an election campaign, citizens are being informed about the candidate combinations and more effective electoral expenditure is being controlled. Ladies and gentlemen, local government bodies, as under the Constitution decentralised public affairs administrations, must and must operate unresponsively and without micro-political games, in response to the benefit of their fellow citizens, who elected them, so that they can have voice and voice. I am sure that, with this reform, many of the problems that have so far arisen in the local government agencies, with the poor inspiration of the SYRIZA for simply proportionally, will be dealt with. Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis had made an election commitment to this reform that we are doing today by resolving a lot of the deadlocks of local authorities, but also by strengthening local self-government institutional and development. I therefore urge you to vote on this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u161	Thank you too, Mr Nicolakopoulou, and for the time being, because the next speaker will certainly ask me for tolerance. Mr Nektarios Santorinios has the floor from SYRIZA and the beautiful Dodecanese.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u162	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u163	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u164	You always preconceive.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u165	I've taught you, pretty much, all of them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u166	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, you will allow me to begin with Mr Mitsotakis' visit to Astypalea today, in my constituency. I will also use your presence, Minister, to ask you a few questions. Obviously, no one can oppose becoming an island of green and autonomous. But is that really so? Today, Mr Mitsotakis actually made a pattern of communication. What's he doing? He receives five electric cars from a well-known automotive industry. That's it. Where's the hybrid unit going to be? We don't know. What else is he opening? It opens up nine chargers, of which six have been purchased by the municipality. The company's giving the three. I'll give you the decisions. I'll testify to them in the Minutes. So you say that it will become a green, autonomous island and indeed the first one. That's awkward. Don't talk about that. Of course, there must be a green and autonomous island of Antypalaea. But Tilos and Ai Stratis have become. Why are we forgetting this? Because they did our own governance? It's not right. You also say it will be autonomous. Really, with 60% coverage an island is autonomous? I don't get my math. Because so much so says the study of the TEDDA, and indeed, in an official response from the Ministry of the Environment and Energy, where it is noted, furthermore, that the tender documents are not in a mature stage of processing, the recommendation of the relevant manager is being prepared and investigated all the alternatives to project management. Until February, there was no memorandum of cooperation, which was not binding. Is this really the contract? What are we inaugurating? Are we inaugurating a memorandum of cooperation that is not binding? What will be the amount of financing from the company? You know, Astypalea will be an open self-driving test lab and the company will get a great deal of goodwill from it. What's he gonna give? Will he give the five cars Mr. Mitsotakis is inaugurating today? You, Minister, have replied that you do not know what projects will be carried out under the project. And I ask you: Today when the fiesta is made, what will be the projects that will be carried out in the framework of the project and financed by the 'ITIS INITIATION'? I'll give you the answer from the Ministry. You are trying to build a green profile with fissures and for projects that do not even have full design, while where the green economy should be financed in the Recovery Fund, you have their municipalities out of nymph. You have a few and a few chosen to take the money. And we say that Astypalea deserves to be a green autonomous island, attracting green investment, but with substance and programming rather than fissures. And that must be understood. And because we're talking about the islands and the island relativity, really, what did you do in the time of pandemic? They collapsed, because they mainly rely on tourism. Did you strengthen the budgets of the municipalities in order to make suspensions? You said to them: 'You have the right to suspend municipal fees'. You gave them money?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u167	Give it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u168	Yeah, they gave a lot.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u169	What am I supposed to do now?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u170	I'll tell you what they gave them. In Kalymnos Municipality, Mr. Admiral - all of you lately mentioned - the oxygen bottles have been financed in this difficult crisis by the municipality and not by the Ministry of Health, because the Ministry of Health has made sure that the Kalymnos Hospital's budget is reduced. That's the reality. Even in difficult times, municipalities substitute the state. That's the reality.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u171	Calm down, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u172	Minister, local government is the cell of democracy, especially the municipal and local communities, which had occasionally been abandoned. The LAGs are primarily a field of cooperation and consultation. We, because we believed in the need for cooperation, progressive changes, representativeness of the vote, have made three fundamental changes: we have applied simply proportionally in the election of the consultants. We separated the local communities from the third poll and avoided the mayor's hugging and the possibility for the municipal communities to have a budget and the management of everyday life. So young people entered the local councils. People were inclined, because they knew they could manage their locals. We saw community-level partnerships. And now you're telling us that there's a problem of governance and you're showing the law. Well, those of you who say that look at the mirror, because for two years now, the municipalities are not governed by the law of SYRIZA. They are run by the Theodorikos abscess you voted on, because you have turned the municipal councils and regional councils into philosophical groups for reflection, you have abolished the possibility of co-operation of the factions - that is what I said to you, Mr Voridis - with the obligation of merger, you have abolished the budgets in local and municipal communities, you have brought absolute power to the mayor through the committees, which are completely in control and you have transformed the collective bodies into applauders. So you blame us for becoming the law. I told you before, look what you voted for. The law of Theodorakou to blame. This law that you are bringing is undemocratic, anachronistic and well-intentioned, but above all it abolishes democracy and establishs aristocracy, because it distorts the popular will more brutal than the extreme majority systems, contrary to the models of election in European countries. It's a system of overconcentrating, no popularly declared. And we've elected the mayor and the district mayor with 43% by giving 60%? This misrepresentation is the worst thing in history, except for 2006. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need two minutes, Mr. President. In order to understand it simply, in the first round, the party proposes municipal councillors for the composition of the municipal council and suggests a mayor. If it takes 50%, then the mayor is elected. Otherwise, let's go to the second round, where we don't vote for orders, but mayor. That's the difference. That's what you need to understand. That is essentially what you are falsifying today with this law. And, at the same time, what are you doing? You are reducing the opportunity for young people to participate in the ballots. And why are you doing this? Because you are actually reducing the number of advisors, and you are also increasing the number of candidates. Who's this favouring? The ones who can pay, the ones who are known, the ones who are fierce. Young people will not enter municipal and regional councils and that's exactly what you want, because you know that local government is a field for young people who want to deal with commons. That scares you. You don't want the young. You don't want the productive powers in the privileged field of politics. You want customers - citizens and not active citizens. That's your problem. And I am closing with this, Mr President, and thank you very much. This is the first time that in electoral law for local government the South Aegean Region has no exceptionally specific composition of a regional council. Why does he always have more regional consultants? Because it has forty-eight islands and many of them are small. So there is a problem of their representation. That is why we are putting more regional consultants than the measure. The South Aegean Region is right now at three hundred thousand, to the limit. It can have thirty-five to forty-five, and today it has fifty regional consultants. This means that the islands will be underrepresented. Put the concept of insularity. Understood. And I wonder: This district chief, this regional council, why are they silenced in this first-time circumvention? It's a disgrace to islandity. It's an insult to the islands. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u173	Thank you, too. Mr. Dimitrios Konstantopoulos of the Movement of Change from beautiful Ietokarnania is called in Vima. We were sorry, of course, the other day, but that's all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u174	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we are talking about local government, a privileged field for us in PASOK. Do not forget that we have made reforms and major changes in local government. So we have one more reason and to speak and to insist and propose and demand. For us, administrative decentralisation with the strengthening of local government was and remains a stable core of all PASOK governments and today of the Change Movement. And it was and remains a firm compass of the democratic party. It was reflected in the founding declaration of 3 September and was ensured - I would say - by means of the persistence of Andreas Papandreou during the 1980s to strengthen the political participatory element in the management of local affairs. Ladies and gentlemen, do not forget that in the institutional arsenal of local government the PASOK governments contributed decentralisation with the apartment councils, the border councils, the institution of the representatives, the institution of the anti-democrats, the central self-evident resources that replaced the state grant. And all this, ladies and gentlemen, when did it happen? In the 1980s. So, we have been pioneers since then, the PASOK, the Change Movement. In order to continue in 1997 as a PASOK the major reforms by intersection in local government, the "IOANNIS KAPPTRIA", which established the region as a decentralised unit of state administration and, finally, in 2010 with the "KALIKRATS", where we had re-formed the architectural structure of the administrative and administrative map of the country. Ladies and gentlemen, all reforms with a progressive political signal have referred to PASOK, the governments of Andreas Papandreou, Costas Simitis, Giorgos Papandreou and, indeed, reforms in a persuasive sense of all those who resisted, Minister, in the development of the self-determination system. I am referring to the opposition parties at the time. For a modern, that is, self-government map in the country at the time those opposition parties reacted. In fact, in persuasiveness of all those who blocked looking at tiny election purposes. Today, then, the bill we are discussing deeply touches the democratic line, because this draft law abolishes KLISTENIS, which has actually been an unfortunate - unfortunate one, I would say - involvement in local government and, indeed, different electoral systems per OTA institution, something that was then judged in the 2019 elections. And it was judged essentially and failed. Ladies and gentlemen, local government has been dealt with, I would say by the previous SYRIZA government - ANEL as a political coach. Of course, the fierce monodigital effects of 2019 showed the then SYRIZA - ANEL government that they really did the bill they proposed for local government failed. It failed, that is, a reform proposed by the government at the time, SYRIZA - ANEL. Minister, we should come to you. I am afraid that today, with the present government, you are dragging behind other priorities, especially through micro-party purposes, I would say. We, the PASOK Change Movement, on the other hand, firmly believe that the institution of local government needs modernisation and democratisation, and that, ladies and gentlemen, with a clear distribution of responsibilities, with genuine self-sufficiency over central government, with studied financial resources, because responsibilities, ladies and gentlemen, without resources, are unrealistic, with control mechanisms, to deal with mismanagement phenomena, as well as with a spirit of tax decentralisation, as our rapporteur has said. Yes, yes, we need another different electoral system that serves the expression of the popular verdict and the cybernicality of the OTAs, not, of course, to serve on a daily basis micro-party purposes. And in this bill, ladies and gentlemen, many but many purposes are reflected. For us, the Change-PASOK Movement is our fundamental disagreement, the new electoral system of the municipal and regional elections, which institutionalizes the mayor's election from the first Sunday with a 43% vote, which essentially predominates 57%, i.e. the simultaneous solution following the three fifths of the majority of the councils from the 43% combination. Our position, ladies and gentlemen, is clear. We disagree not to disagree. But we disagree with any percentage that is less than 50% plus one. So no mayor can be elected by 43% to one vote only with 50% in one vote. The 43% we see, when you enter here, Minister, leads to minority administrations, as well as minority administrations, driving the system voted on by the government and receiving the answers, as I said, in the 2019 elections. Minister, we expected to see this distortion corrected. But we see the same recipe. We disagree with the reduction of elected representatives in municipal and Community and regional councils. We also disagree with the excessive increase in candidates up to 150%. I have a question here: because we all know from the province and from the region, where so many candidates will be found. The conclusions are yours. We also disagree with the excessive increase in factors, because all these lead together to the creation of strong players in the electoral arena, I would say, of local self-government, which in no way serves transparency and democratisation of the institution. On the contrary, perhaps it will also lead us to situations, I would say, with political and economic dependencies and that will, of course, be because it is not guaranteed that self-government and independent selfgovernment are not guaranteed. Another question also concerns the crucifixion of municipal councils. First of all, we disagree with the change that you are introducing to the crusade of municipal councillors. Where? In municipalities consisting of more than one electorate. It is being abolished here, Minister, the compulsory crusade of the candidates, so from the constituency to the electoral lists in which the citizen is registered. We also disagree with the prediction that all local councillors should be included together together. And I wonder, then, what the government is doing. It cancels the existence of elections within the municipality and distorts representation, thus opening the way to those who have access to the media. Minister, in the election of municipal councillors, provision should be made for the election of those who have been - I would say - mayors for more than two terms, either in an artistic or a capodist municipality. It is the practical recognition of their experience in self-government, and this is a provision that existed in the draft bill and was removed. Look at it. You need to see it again and act on our suggestion. Ladies and gentlemen, I would say that the conclusion we all draw here is that while the government had time to prepare a long-term reform for local government, it does not do so. What was he supposed to do? To promote a reform that corrects the distortions that have been observed, which will solve problems that have been created, which will shield local government from sufficient resources, so that local government can carry out its development and social work. After that, of course, ladies and gentlemen, we - PASOK - can only vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u175	Thank you, Mr. Constantopoulos. Mr. Paul Paulakis, MP of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, from the beautiful Chania. And I want a temper on the right, Admiral.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u176	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ten days after you were elected in July 2019, in the debate on the government's programming statements, I had made a position I had said: You went out riding the chariot of the anti-Macedonian struggle, the lamentation of the Eye, the promise of the relief of the small and medium-sized ones, and I said then that it will soon prove that the government of Mr.Mitsotakis' neo-right will do three things. Three! The first will be to make the gresso trick with the subsidiary insurance that he wants to give it to the private. A resentment of neoliberals since the 1980s, a work of 75 billion in a depth of twenty-five years. The second job would be to sell all the "silver and gold" of the public again to your friends and friends either of your party or the Mitsotakis family. And third job - and this is implemented and is seen from ELPEs to all the laws passed by Hatzidakis, which despair the real estate of small and medium-sized enterprises and grant it - is to eat the money, the 37 billion euros - which, unfortunately, we left you so much - and the money of the Recovery Fund, which will not be diffused throughout society, but will be the largest volume of them to 5%, which is the percentage of the Greek society you truly represent. Go complete what Samaras started in 2012-2013 with the memorials, the transfer and redistribution of property from the small and medium-sized ones to the very upper social strata, which are the ones you represent. That is why you are bringing the laws of the labour bill, Hatzidakis now, with the new devaluation of the value of work, with the payment of overtime and overtime. To do all this, you need to reconstitute - and that is what you are doing with this bill, as you started it with the law of the state of staff, that is, the rule of Maximos - a state of ERA in the 1950s. And you were the first to say so clearly that we must take all the institutional measures so that the Left does not return to power. It is what it has repeated in another way of tearing up - and you say to me a bite! - Mr. Mitsotakis before the European partners that it was a dark break in 2015-2019, underestimated all the Greek people who voted and supported the SYRIZA - ANEL government! That's what you do with today's bill. You went to do it with the law on the vote of the faculty, believing that there you'll get what you've already lost, because you're plucking. Anyone who walks on the street - not in the galops' halls - understand where you are and where we are. It is not the stylish media that the social reality currently exists in Greek society, because the catastrophic management of the pandemic, which you have done, is added to it by two figures: the world average of deaths per million people right now - which is the most reliable - is four hundred forty people. In Greece more than a thousand percent. In Greece you said, with EGE's data, that two and a half thousand people came out of the ITH since the beginning of the pandemic, that is, another thousand - because 70% survival, 30% mortality, is up there - died. Thousands died in ICUs. The other eleven thousand where they died? Only one of these two figures understands - and with your insistence not to bring in the monoclonal antibodies that we have been calling you for so long, approved by both the FDA and Coreper - and it seems that the pandemic's catastrophic management is a disaster. So, what do you do with the bill, Mr. Voridis? You are actually giving the absolute monocracy to the mayor at a reduced rate. Mr. Hatzidakis has left the mayor with 72%. I went out with a mayor with 96.4%.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u177	You took me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u178	Of course! It is the historically highest rate of mayor election since World War II and then throughout the country. The mayor is a local authority. It must have social and popular legitimacy. She can't have it. It's a deep ideological problem that you want with 43% to have 60% - 65% of municipal councillors. If you had a elementary contact with democratic conditions in the exercise of the culture, you would say that you have to get 51% and get more municipal councillors to have the majority, which would hold this thing, what you say about government. And what does it mean to be insolent? Can we look at it with one example? I'll tell you with one example to see where you're driving things. It is another logic and a transfer of the state of staff and we "do what we like" it with our direct assignments and eat the money with the best friends, such a transfer to the level of the municipalities and communities, which is a cell of democracy in our country. I will tell you what you will do with one example. A bit of your tolerance. In the Municipality of Apokoronou there is a major local problem called the "waste transhipment station". With the elections recently held, with the municipal council elected from the first round, the mayor's proposal did not pass. He didn't go by one or two votes and by the mayor's resignation. What does that mean, Mr. Voridis? It means that for such a serious problem it does not have the popular legitimacy to do where they are saying and there is another proposal and everything else. With your law, with 43%, he would do whatever he likes. That's the problem. To be elected with 51% and to have an absolute majority of 51% -52% of the municipal councillors I accept, I could discuss it. What are you doing? With 43% all on the mayor's side, you get the responsibilities from the municipal councils, you destroy the way in which you elect local communities, you reduce the number of municipal councils and regional councils, while you have more candidates to be in more focused hands and this power. No, it's not like that. It's not like that. This bill will be abolished from the first when we become a government again. You should know that. We've been telling you now. There will be no elections with that thing. Be sure of that. In the municipalities, therefore, the next SYRIZA administration will also be transferred resources and responsibilities to self-government. And one is the word of responsibilities, one is, all the others are 'barboutsala', the 'licensing', with resources and personnel, being able to authorize works up to a certain amount for each municipality, the other is the Municipality of Sfakion, the other is the Municipality of Palaios Faliro, the Municipality of Athens. But not needing five hundred signatures outside the municipality or local area to ministries and services to launch a project of a regeneration square, as is the case today. That's the big problem, but you don't want to hit this, you want to give the mayor you think he'll be yours with 43%, give the job to your best friend, to a local contractor there. That's the essence of what you're doing. That's why we're gonna destroy it from day one. Two things and I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u179	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u180	Yesterday - I apologize, I ask for your tolerance, I must refer to two things, because here we have a distortion of reality from the "flat" media - at the "Metaxas" Hospital, opened the "Baby - Cyclotronium", the radiopharmaceutical machine, which Rena Dourou, I, Olga Jordanidou and Zaimi, the former commander, financed, decided to join, auctioned and ended. Yesterday he was inaugurated and came and was crowned by Patolis, who blamed Dourou for spending the district's money to take it to the hospital, Kontozamanis who canceled the four "citrons" of Niarchas donation, who, apart from that of "Metataxas" and the other "Saint Anargyroes" that we financed from the region, had arranged to enter. The one who annulled them came along yesterday with Metropolitan and your local MPs for radiopharmaceutical cyclotronic production, for the PET - CT, in 'Metaxas'. And you're so petty and your commander there - what's his name? - Tubeki, who didn't invite any of the people who did it. And last: Yesterday in the letter sent by Stournaras, the Governor of the Bank of Greece, on the course of the 3 million euros of Kalogris, which appears to have come from this Arab company for a project, for a contract, it turns out that after the cancellation of the tender and the release of the licence guarantee, they ended in his pocket. He proves it with the papers he sent. And today the historic newspaper "TA NEWS" like the biggest junta Georges to say "in the light the dirt of 3 million", yes, and it puts the image of the Poppa and is not ashamed of Marinakis and the other journalists who are underneath it. If Stournaras sends a paper that proves that the 3 million euros went into the Calograss' pocket and you built pre-interrogatives to get the Poppa, let's get away with the curse! Evidently they went to his pocket and come out today "THEA" to say "the dirty route" and take a picture of the Pope. That's what he wants to sue and it's going to happen.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u181	We get it, finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u182	I'm just showing - and I'm saying this, and I'm finishing - that it doesn't save you, as much golls as you do, as you do, what you're gonna do and feed. Your curse starts, it will be accelerating and everything you vote for, we say it clearly you will not be able to implement it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u183	Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Please, there's no point at all. Mr. Constantine Blush of the New Democracy is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u184	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u185	Mr. Hatzidakis, please. It's news that you've been kept ten minutes, please! In the canteen, the rest!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u186	To Piraeus...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u187	Mr. Polakis, please, you said it a moment ago! Here you go, Mr. Blush, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u188	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Polakis, I retained the 'new ones' and the reconstituting of the 1950 ERA. You are just testifying to your historical consecration and obsession with your obsolete consolescious now vocabulary arsenal. And you talked again about the disastrous management of the pandemic and you referred back to death. It has otherwise expelled your argument both internally and abroad of the country with the position in which it comes. And with regard to the latter comment on the presence of the Deputy Minister in "Metaxas", the presence probably does not mean a stumbling, Mr Polakis, it means "performing honor" and we give you the honor when needed and where appropriate for what little you have done in your five-year term. Destination and loneliness! The debate here today recalls the debate on the electoral law that we held in this Chamber 16 months ago. Like then, and now, faithful to our election commitments to the needs of the public administration and the governance of the place at every institutional level, we have brought as a government a law that goes beyond what is so-called pure left-wing intentions of blossoming flowers all over the garden, as said by my dear colleague of counterpopulation at the meetings of the committee. How will the true flowers of local societies blossom, will their voices be heard and will they cease to blossom trumps and weeds? And in order to avoid misunderstanding about the image of the rubble and the weeds that I invoke, these are the plants that are partially or totally receiving the nutrients needed for their development from the flowers that bloom and from the fruit plants. They're repellent of their vitality. For tolerance, that is the reason and for reasonable multiplicity. Really, where is our realism? In your virtual reality of instability, fragility and mortgage on the social contract? I believe that the image of the trillion and the complete indication of the concept of zeroation are the best descriptions of the simple and unscrupulous left analogy and your intentions. Because your tolerability is dominantly the one controlled. In your words and intentions you idealize the conditions in which public administration or self-government cannot make decisions. With you, we recognize the cognitive zeroing of the "those who do not think are convening". What else are you doing? You are pressing for an administration that has no authority, no will and that moves according to the opportunistic attitudes of some members, who self-evidently consent to the artificial creation of majorities. Electoral pluralism is suppressed, differentiations do not coexist constructively, fertilising dynamics, but work out opportunely - where what? - where an alliance of logic, common sense, is required. In this way, you are driving public administration and self-government into social zeroing, rejecting any real principle and power. After all, it bears witness to your wider ideological space, especially the extraparliamentary, in which Paulis works. And you are going to institutionalize the acceptance of the destructive deadlocks, the political reproach of populism on the left. The defence of self-government, the defence of the commander - a people - is not, rather, the establishment of your own inappropriate and unadulterated, that is - what? - a obsolete scene, the formation of appropriate education and exercise in collectiveness, is the activeness and participatoryness in the logic of the common benefit, what proved to be a pandemic, against the anthropological zeroing of atmospheric decontamination. In other words, the answer is the anti-nuclear education that raises the total per capita crop, the ones that you are always drugged by artifacts and pyrotechnics hide the essentials. The left theory of a transformed democracy, which will demonstrate the popular will inevitably overshadows the problem of the value principle, which, ladies and gentlemen, is extremely difficult, because democracy and the meaning of collectiveness and the principle of participatoryness, unfortunately, are not being reconstructed and institutionalised on demand. And if cyberdynamicity is not being ordered, as we have been told by a selective colleague from counter-population, why is the culture of consensus being institutionalised? Resistance to corruption and decline, the dismantling of our worthy backgrounds is not only a matter of institutionalisation, but a matter of resistance to society, it is a matter of seeking meaning. The problem of public administration and, above all, of self-government, you understand that on the basis of the Treaty falsehood of the Left, numerically. You consider, in other words, respect for the collective subject of extremist pluralism, the lightning voice, the arithmetic imprint of representation. For us it was and will be worthy: what we announce in the election is what we do post-elections in a relationship of truth and patriotic responsibility. You intend to act solutely, to "lost" local government and that in the name of democracy. Our aim is to restore self-government to its real role. Self-destructive behaviours of the past or the future, such as your own sleep with the "adolescent" have no place. And it is not provincialism, unless provincialism means realism. Yes, guaranteeers of social cohesion and safeguards are required, but not solvent institutions, paralysis and 'xantropodism' of the democratic principle. Look, for a change, and you once check why the quality of our democracy is controlled and do a brave endoscopy and you may be surprised by your "self-recognition". However, I have forgotten, Mr Hatzidakis: you are naturally claiming progressivity, democracy, and only on behalf of the people, so the endoscopy is unnecessary. And do you know why the quality of our democracy is vaporized and depleted? Because by displaying too much tolerance, it remains irresponsible and incomprehensible. And only when there's direction, there's no evaporation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You say: 'We are in favour of simple and inappropriate, which will create a culture of cooperation'. First of all, you as the Left are talking about pluralism when you have not been able, for at least the last fifty three years, to consult each other, while constantly breaking into parties and 'cuts'. You talk about the cross-setting of policy at local level and one wonders: How is it done? But, in fact, with osmosis, with civil society. You want to talk to us about culture of understanding. But is this culture imposed? And let me come to some examples of education and culture. What example do you give, when you oppose, by leading the resistance to "tree" and by questioning for tiny reasons any representative of the scientific community, as Mr Paulakis has just done? "Kosos" the t-infectionist and the Committee of Experts and we are unable to reach an agreement on what is the right to life and what a public health obligation. "Kacos" and Korres on the Rock of the Acropolis! We are unable to reach agreement on what is armed concrete and what a post-Byzantine quartz with which thousands of public infrastructure has been built for centuries! What culture of understanding do you cultivate when you impose its essential amputation on the vote? The "adult" and "unfair" rather work to confirm the Hellenistic principle "Great unrest,..." - for the whole world a headache - "...wonderful situation for you". And I'm just wondering, what direction can it take, in your intentions, local, municipal or regional council? I can only see one answer: one unholy direction. And our final political question is whether this is what you are experiencing in your absolute inconsistency. But this is probably about the genuine left of monolithicity or - and, rather, this is what is happening - you are experiencing it in your absolute hypocrisy, of your insurmountable people - flattery, but also in your left-wing career. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u189	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. And now Yanniotissa Merope Jufi, a member of the SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, is called at Step. Here, Mrs. Jufi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u190	Thank you, Mr President. We have heard from the recent colleague of the New Democracy that innovative things have been heard, such as that democracy is an unholy direction. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, with this bill, but also with the position of my colleague, it is quite clear that the New Democracy Government in this bill and with a tool the electoral system of local government is challenging the quality of democracy. The reasons have been listed, but I will repeat them. With the "43%+1" of the bill there is no doubt that the principle of equivalence of vote with the argument of administrative efficiency, which was of course guaranteed by the "50%+1" system, is clearly being violated. Of course, the only thing that is achieved is the drastic reduction in the democratic legitimacy of the mayor and the district mayor, which seems to be not the case for some, since they allow the first party to occupy 60% of the members of the municipal council. And we have consciously heard all arguments about the fact that it should and should be prevented from involving smaller extensions with an entry wall of 3%, i.e. excluding pluralism, pluralism and democracy, while there are no grounds for public interest, such as the central political scene, because those who do so are 'voices', 'weeds' and 'tribbles'. What aristocratic concept! The decision to strengthen the first legacy by weakening the councils and strengthening its presence in the Economic Commission and in the Committee on Quality of Life is, ladies and gentlemen, a violation of the charter of local autonomy. We have, in other words, completed the legislative interventions Theodorikos, which deliberately prevented the implementation of the legislative framework of the SYRIZA system, so that it is not implemented as a failure. With this anachronistic bill we have a regression in the gray era of the majority of the New Democracy in 2006, an self-government fully confronted with the government's central administration subordinated and dependent at that time, when the principle of democracy was systematically underestimated in the hands of small-party interests. The worst of all is that it is consciously weakened that the independent functioning of local communities is weakened by the abolition of the provisions of autonomous lists and separate ballots, an absolutely successful measure of the legalisation of the SYRIZA next to the public, confessed by all and all, because it was necessary and demanded by local communities. It was served and served by young people who acted and dealt with the public, without any dependants from the central ballot. They were given the necessary resources and now you say to them 'unnecessary, we do not need you'. So the culture of decentralised administration and the concept of collectiveism is lost, indifferent to the European charter of local government, where for many years and in many countries the electoral system of simple proportionalness is what is in place, a decentralised system with the election of mayors by the municipal councils in the direction of a public administration fully partisan. So, instead of discussing what responsibilities this multi-level governance needs, you are creating a majority system and you are legislating to reduce counsellors while increasing the candidates to make it difficult for independent lists to be drawn up. We, in communication and in contact with the communities in which we were born or come, see in our constituency that there is a special relationship between the hereditaries and their villages. The daily life of the village, the neighborhood, the semi-urban and urban fabric, the problems of the community are the "his" problems. They are the problems of those who choose to participate in this way, and that is why they will continue to claim a separate call and an independent voice and expression, since they consider that the large border ballots can "strangle" the independence of the local and special voice of the community. For example, in the Law of Ioannina we have three hundred seventy - seventy local government agencies and eight municipalities. One hundred and twelve communities have more than three hundred inhabitants, and the rest have a limit of less than three hundred inhabitants, which is now visible with the limitations of the bill, the risk of large inaccurate and historical communities being represented only in the institutions of local government. I quote: Kalaritas in northern Tzoumerka, Asprangels in the Municipality of Zagori, Karitsa in the Municipality of Zitsa, Ligiades in the Municipality of Ioannites, Psosoyannis in the Municipality of Konitsa, Votonosi in the Municipality of Metsovo, Buildings in the Municipality of Pogonios. Evidently some people may remember those names. However, none of the inspirations of this bill recognizes the need for the elderly to live decently and to have close to the people of local government who are struggling to solve the problems of their country that make their lives difficult. During SYRIZA's governance, money was given through European and not only resources and programs, such as "PHILDIMOS", which enabled municipalities and communities to do important projects to improve the daily lives of citizens, while eight thousand five hundred permanent appointments were made to local government. Now, for the priorities, the ICTD will decide clearly and provocatively. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, democracy suffers in your hands and suffers not only in your local government. Your torque to authoritarianism is obvious. In fact, if one looks back on old electoral materials, one realizes the undemocratic repressive shifts in the physiognomy of the right. The dominant project of post-population for more democracy and social justice was easily replaced by proclamations of more authoritarianism, police and discipline in law and order. With accomplices and media partners, you are disseminating repression and totalitarianism to society in all directions and tones. For example, the old national intelligence of the educational system comes back with numerous actions and statements from the relevant Minister, most characteristic of which is the statement on school history that must not be societal, but Greek Christian intelligence. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Even more impressive is neoliberal policy in Mr Mitsotakis' economy, an economic policy that delivers everything to private investors by ensuring that the labour movement is dismantled, that labour rights are smashed by establishing individual labour contracts that reduce the income of workers, institutionalize payment on the day-to-day basis, take out their homes and lead to social catastrophe. And the totalitarianism of the New Democracy with subtle bills continues and continues without end. But what is the New Democracy doing? One of the basic characteristics of neoliberalism is its dislike to democratic processes and the preference for the establishment of a post-democracy, essentially virtual democracy and ultimately the oligarchy of the rich, the rightful occupants, the praisers and the supposed excellence. The New Democracy therefore serves neoliberalism faithfully and with a particular zeal and strangles democracy in the country's self-government history, bringing the most anti-democratic system across Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, the great strength of democracy is the composition, creation and dismissal of the security of a rigid ideological system that interprets the world completely and submissively. The majority principle, only when embraced by minority voice, strengthens and nourishes the foundations of democratic governance. Serving democracy in the delicate thread of freedom of will that starts from the voice of one who becomes the voice of many, should be the primary objective of every government that respects democracy and itself. Unfortunately, the New Democracy's choices are the powerful full control of everything, without respect for the democratic rule. Obviously, we are voting against the bill and we will abolish it, when a large social majority gives us this opportunity and is convinced that there may be an alternative proposal of positive democratic overthrows, both in local government and in general. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u191	Thank you, Mrs. Jufi. Mr. Philip Load, our Cycladicist from New Democracy, has the floor. Here, Mr. Colleague, you have the floor to say it now from the Stepma, because no one would hear you from where you were shouting.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u192	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let us put things in order, because we have heard many and various times in plenary. Today we are discussing one of the most important bills, which I would say is an emblematic one, which is introduced into plenary by the present Government of New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis. It is a bill that comes to the vote after many months of consultation with the representatives of local government and which comes to give solutions, to rectify, I would say, failures, but also to shape the electoral process for the emergence of municipal and regional authorities from the outset. This bill is one of the most important reforms in the area of TAAs, of course, since it abolishes the simple analogue. You, ladies and gentlemen, had brought a 'travesti' analogy. What does that mean? You had elected mayor with the reasonable majority, either in the first or second round and, of course, in the selection of municipal councillors with the simple analogue. This is what you had legislated and only had problems with local government. We are therefore reintroducing the rule of law to the municipalities and, of course, reintroducing the five-year term. We adapt the limit of election from the first round to 43% and we ensure governmentality in the municipalities by electing 3/5 members of the municipal council for the winner of the elections, other than parties, but also colours. We are streamlining, of course, both the framework for blockages of election and also the unconventional ones. Of course, we also provide for the election of councillors or presidents of municipal communities throughout the territory, without exceptions. There are also many important reforms on how and when candidates are submitted, in the case of disputes arising from the Ottawa elections. At this point, Minister, I would like to refer to a number of important issues of Otta and local self-government, since I myself know that you yourself, as well as the Ministry of Interior as a whole, have ears and I believe that some of these comments will be incorporated into some of the forthcoming bills. This is what I think they need to deal with for the proper functioning of both the municipalities and the regions. My first point concerns the extension of the election block to all members of the Armed Forces and the Security Bodies, in addition to the officers already established. While there is a ban on the election of officers precisely because of the responsibility, the positions of responsibility, which often do not have the rank of the officer, are nominated in the municipal elections. I consider this to be contrary, of course, to Article 56 of the Constitution, which does not separate officers from other members, but also the servants of the Armed Forces and the Security Body. Furthermore, I believe that their participation in the elections as a whole, and their election, conflicts with the special position of power which is all of this to the state. It is, of course, causing a significant reduction in the personnel of the armed forces, but also of the security bodies, and in many cases corruption has occurred. My second point concerns the regional consultants, who are appointed leaders, but also their professional activities. In the current legislation, there is provision for the Vice-Presidents - and quite rightly so - that, during their term of office, they are exempted from their official duties, as long as they work as civil servants. I therefore consider it fair, but also reasonable to extend this regulation to regional consultants, who are appointed leaders by the regional authority concerned. And that, ladies and gentlemen, because the regional head of some island region - we have heard a great deal and I will come back to it - is responsible in particular for responsibilities, responsibilities and responsibilities. It must therefore at any time be available for the needs of the island which it serves, to cooperate with the municipality concerned, but also to disguise the citizens' various problems and to ensure that they are resolved. I would say that it is particularly difficult in the present circumstances to cope with all of this from the post of a civil servant, while at the same time carrying out his other duties from an office. The chief of staff, therefore, should be free of any kind of staff so that he can also commit himself to his duties, as we believe he is. I come to some of the things we have heard from my dear colleague Mr Santorinio. You know, ladies and gentlemen, you have become accustomed to the opposition and the entire specole and lies, but it is particularly heavy in plenary to continue what you are doing in society. Because there is an answer to this, I am standing in Mr Santorini's words, in what he said about the South Aegean region, since I am elected in the Cyclades. He said that the South Aegean Region did not react to the reduction of regional consultants. I am tabling the letter sent on 24 May 2021 - obviously Mr Santorini does not know that - for the South Aegean Region to be excluded from the reduction of regional consultants. It is a letter sent by Mr Hatzimarku to the Minister of the Interior. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Philip Load, presents for the minutes the abovementioned letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, personally considering that both because of islandity and geographical uninterruptedness and dual regionality, as it is the South Aegean region that is the largest in the country with twenty-four island municipalities and forty-eight inhabited islands, I think there should be equal treatment because of islandity and the South Aegean Region. I am standing on this because the New Democracy Government has done too much, unlike you who had abolished the reduced VAT rates in 2015. In fact, many of your colleagues at the time were here for this. So I, too, call for the South Aegean Region to be excluded from the billed reduction in the number of members of the regional council. A fourth comment concerns the legal persons governed by public law of the municipalities and, in particular, those subject to more than one municipality. This is a problem of the island municipalities, particularly in the port funds, which extend to more than one municipality. The legislation in force stipulates that commissions per municipality are awarded exclusively by the regions to municipalities or other legal persons. This legislation makes it difficult for other legal persons who are subject to municipalities, in particular in different cases where a legal person is subject to more than one municipality and often these are port funds. So there should be a separation, Minister, per municipality so that these legal persons can handle more correctly, I would say these costs according to the needs of each municipality and, of course, of the localities, as the economic needs of each region are quite different. Finally, I should like to dwell on the existing bill and Amendment No 907/88. With this regulation, our country forms part of the first wave of countries that activate the European CIVID certificate, a European initiative that takes flesh and bone and which best ensures the safety of travellers, but also of destinations, and of course solves the hands of those who are trying around tourism. It is a digital tool that demonstrates that our country, Greece, and in the tourism sector is a pioneer, but also a regulator. We are creating policies and we are mainly opening the way back to normality. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot talk about the development of this country without the local government agencies. The contribution of the municipalities, but also of the regions, is crucial. They are the bodies that are very close to the citizens, serve the citizens and are controlled by the citizens. We must unite our forces to create a truly decentralised and functional state. Local government must become regional government. With a strategy, therefore, but also a plan, in participatory procedures to contribute to the implementation of the work of self-government, always in the interests of both the citizens and society. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u193	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u194	On the subject you said, 'travesti', Mr Loading, to delete it from the Minutes. It's racist. You're not Mrs. Latinopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u195	If he wants to, yes. But then he clarified what that means.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u196	I'm not Latinopoulou, Mr. Zachariadis. I mean, I saw a transvestite, and I did an analysis. Other colleagues had placed themselves on other things with the same logic.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u197	They'll read it after years and they'll see that word.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u198	Mr. Zachariadis, he explained it later. If he wants to delete, delete. But he made it quite clear what he meant. Mr. Georgios Bored by SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance and the beautiful Iato-Carnania.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u199	Thank you, Mr President. Travestii with solid armpits! That's a great picture!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u200	Come on, Mr. Comrade!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u201	Ladies and gentlemen, we are, or should at least be, at a time of great appreciation, after a great crisis that has engulfed Europe, and which has resulted in the hump of this country accumulating a overwhelming, disproportionate burden, and after this crisis, a quarantine that has come to accumulate new burdens in the country and the Greek people and to reveal new weaknesses of the European Union alongside those that were known, such as the Union cannot guarantee the borders of its member countries either. So, at this moment, a Prime Minister of a miserable country, supposedly represented by this Prime Minister, in an anniversary forum for the European Union, is confusing, considers that he is in a seminar on the anti-SYRIZA front and unbelievably formulates a sick splitting position before Europeans. And no one was found to prevent it. To say, even at the last minute... Obviously not you, Minister, someone else I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u202	I congratulated him.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u203	To prevent him and to say that things don't happen in such a forum. So we are towards a trend in other times, and this logic that I have invoked seems to be luxury, as if there is an invisible force that pushes things into extreme situations, to the extent that the question arises: what is this invisible force and finally who governs this country with that logic? I would say that the Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, an anti-popularist, would be the shortest joke if he did not contain anything tragic at the same time. At a time when Europe is called upon to respond to existential dilemmas, is the Prime Minister of Greece coming to testify to what concerns? While some say that the European Union must be reborn and this must be achieved through communism, the government, Minister, is coming and gives the slogan'return rapidly'. In communities, what luck do you keep with the bill? Even the colonel enters the party 'Profruit'! And the colonel! Finally, what vision did you see in this regard? History began with the final state, let's call it communication. We don't get too far out. It is a hybrid of tertiary-world cutting, whose logic is all the flow of money to be controlled by a top. The question is: Which state have you just envisioned, have you dreamed? A state in which you and some satellites rule? Who's in the background? We've heard some terrible things here. Some of the New Democracy speakers in their attempt to read what they have in front of them manage to make fun of themselves. It was heard, for example, that "we did not give any anointings for the self-government". Really? And since you didn't give any anointings, why are you swelling the painting and saying, "Blue painted"? And the more it has to be made blue, to the extent that the color becomes so deep that it looks like someone else, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u204	Dark blue.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u205	It's okay, dark blue. A little black? That's all right, either. On a good path, then, you're pulling as a government. What can I wish for? Have a good way? I'll say that too! What do you think? We reduce the regional, municipal councils, we take the road to young people, and what do we want to support and reproduce? The factorism. Factors guarantee the perpetuation of current government. A neo-fungalism when governmentists tighten the tie and they say "we are anti-populist". Really? You don't believe in clientism and you follow this tactic? It seems that the government has succeeded in the political jackpot, that is to say a lobotomy of the Greek people, who can easily see the black one - white and the reality inverted. This seems to be what the current government believes, until a humble rapper has arrived, please, in order to trouble the water and cause fear to whom? To those who worked fear. I don't think they're so scared, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u206	I didn't say that, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u207	You didn't say that, no. The government, I say. So there's only one pebble in the lake. And what does the case I mentioned earlier prove? That there is a thirst for the truth, an insatiable thirst for the truth to be heard, a thirst to pull the veil of communication and propaganda and to know what exactly is happening and not the reality inverse. In this respect, I would like to say - and to end - that many, if you like historically, dreamt of burying the truth as deep as possible. But what's going on? The truth is seed and as deep as someone gets into it, at some point I believe or, if you like, I hope that this truth will blossom. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u208	And we thank Mr. Bored. We continue with SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance and Mrs. Catherine Papanatziou is called at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u209	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, with the bill we are discussing today, still in the middle of a reopening of the House, one more of the government's flaws in conservative reforms is coming in. The bill replaces the law of SYRIZA that introduced mere proportionality to self-government, giving a breath of democracy and participation. The government's abstention to mere analogy is a deeply undemocratic concept, because it does not accept the basic principle of democracy, that each and every one's vote is equal. Your effort shows fear of control and transparency, which is facilitated by the presence of all the factions in the institutions of self-government. To be perfectly precise, this legislation comes after 2019 regulations, again from New Democracy. Then, in essence, all the powers were removed from the regional and municipal councils and passed on to the mayors and the regional councillors. At the same time, responsibilities were removed from local communities, while shortly before new administrations take over, in 2019, on the pretext of cyberdynamicity, you replaced the OTA framework with a centralised, completely dominating, opaque decision-making system. So, now's the bill as a supplement, and what's it doing? Firstly, it reduces the percentage of the mayor's election to 43% from '50%+1'. The first combination elects 60% of consultants, the mayor and the district manager. On the substance, you are stealing from the people's vote. The mayor's and district manager's resignation, however much as they get in the first round, will at the end have 60% of the members of municipal and regional councils, the institutionalised committees and the legal persons of the municipality and the region. Second issue for the election of a municipal and regional consultant on one side: a minimum of 3% is introduced and, at the same time, the number of municipal and regional councils is reduced. In practice, that is, 3% will be much larger for most municipalities and regions. Thirdly, you are abolishing the role and responsibilities of local communities and the separate polling on the Community Councils, by obliging active citizens as they manifest themselves through social fermentation to be charged behind the municipal ballots. But let us look at the amendment from the Ministry of Finance, which has come to a dead end again. It brings changes, from what the Minister of Finance said yesterday, to the law of TIADED and an amendment to the "GEOFYRA" programme. On the subject of HIAD, first point: You add responsibilities to the objectives of the fund on the development of strategic public procurement. What are you doing on the substance? You change the nature and duration of the fund. So you're permanently simulating it? Here we note that with Law 4799 you set up a centralised system for monitoring public contracts of strategic importance. You have created a government committee under the Prime Minister to control the flow of money. The Commission's contracts relate also to the European recovery mechanism, the Recovery Fund, irrespective of budget, to contracts over 50 million and, in the case of the NSRF, more than 30 million. What happened to your final state? Doesn't he make it? Or does he want cover too? With the amendment you are now blocking the procedure with the TEAD. Why is that? Proceed even to the lenders. Second, the number of members of the Board of Directors of the HSE and the executive members will not be defined by the law, but by decision of the General Assembly. This also raises important issues of transparency for such a serious body with direct public interest. It is also not only free for the fund to determine what members it wants, but the hearing of the President and the CEO from the House is no longer complete. It is another decision without the involvement of Parliament. Once again democracy on the ice. Point 3 shall be set for a period of one month to the beneficiary for the acceptance or rejection of the fund's recommendation on the maturation of the project. Otherwise the recommendation is deemed to have been automatically adopted. This provision gives the HICP a critical overpower in relation to strategic contracts. Within one month which body has the ability to control maturation? What is the purpose of this arrangement? I have nothing to comment on in the other articles of the amendment to the 'GATT' amendment. After yesterday we have been through the process of full operation now of the new bankruptcy law. The process of lifting the protection of the first residence and the liquidation of the property of the citizens has become final straight. The government chose in the midst of a pandemic to give the final blow to households and businesses. The New Democracy after the bankruptcy of the natural persons and the conversion of the tenants into tenants removes the protection of the first residence and brings, as a crown, an anti-corporate bill. The day before yesterday, we were told by the Minister of Labour that overtime will be paid on leave or on the day off. Assuming that the instalments of loans will also be compensated for by them, will they be paid either with leave or with the day off? We should know that right now. To close, in order to return to the bill under discussion, it aims to establish an even more centralised and authoritarian way of administration since it further strengthens a male authority at the expense of the collective bodies. You aim to complete control of self-government. After the finally controlled state, the effectively controlled self-government comes. You show by this piece of legislation your allergy in the cell of democracy, which is participation and co-modulation. If you weren't dangerous, you'd be a bad joke in the history of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u210	Thank you, Mrs. Papanatsiu. Mr. Vassilis - Peter Spanakis from New Democracy, who is elected to the B3' South Athens Sector and we will close the speakers with a natural presence with Mr. Karasmanis from Pella and New Democracy as well, to go back to the Webex. If they hear me from Webex, Mr. Karaoglu should be prepared.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u211	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, getting into this Chamber and confronting the SYRIZA headquarters of the former Interior Minister, Mr Ragosi, who actually brought self-government law that created and multiplied the problems of self-government, I do not know how to start this position. When the Government of New Democracy, when the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, when the Minister of the Interior, Makis Voridis, brings a bill that is cured, right, in order to solve problems that have been created in self-government in recent years. In short, to be understandable to those who are listening to us and who have fought for self-government, who are struggling for the future of self-government and the first and second degrees, this bill gives self-government and, in fact, selfgovernment gains what it lost with SYRIZA. This is the title of today's bill, ladies and gentlemen. A week ago, in this Chamber, the Civic Opposition, unfortunately, voted against the bill for the vote of Greeks living abroad. In other words, they refused to give the Greeks who are registered on the electoral lists and who already live or may be found in the future outside Greece to vote from their home place. Today we are discussing and will vote on the draft law on the elections of self-government. Why today? Because today we need to correct the very serious problems caused by Law 4555/2018, the SYRIZA - ANEL government law. As has been shown, the so-called simple analogue applied to the municipalities and regions of the country only placed obstacles to the municipal and regional authorities in order to achieve their work and purpose. In a number of municipalities, about a third, the elected mayors do not have a majority on the municipal council throughout the whole territory. The previous government's obsession with the simple analogue has been denied for four years by the municipal and regional authorities the opportunity to do this for which works have been passed and which has been deprived by citizens, to upgrade the quality of the areas that live and many others. What brings today's draft law on self-government? The five-year term of office of the municipal and regional authorities shall be restored. Electoral day is the second Sunday in October. It comes from the incompatible linking the existence of debts to the municipality, where this framework is stricter. Determination of obstacles and incompatibilities for candidates. Here too, allow me to focus on the regulation on the blocking of election for lawyers serving the municipalities with a leased mandate and to thank the Minister for the legislative improvement he brought yesterday. This corrected a very serious issue that concerned these lawyers and there was no provision at first. In other words, if someone had resigned to run if he could have returned to his post in the event of no election. This has now been clearly clarified and it is very important. And I continue with the critical changes of today's draft law. It is established by Article 24 for the municipalities and by 57 for the regions a limit for the election in the first round of 43% and one vote. This regulation will put an end to all the problems caused by Law 4555. Poverty and efficient operation in the municipalities will return 1-1-2024. It is set as a limit for the right to elect a municipal and regional councillor of 3% and is defined as having three fifths of the seats on the board. This regulates the distribution of the seats of the municipal and regional council in a way that reflects the mandate of the electorate by ensuring the necessary majority of the combination that it won on the board as well. We also have Article 30 which provides that for municipal communities with a population of up to three hundred presidents the first is declared to be crosses from the combination that took the majority in the first round. We therefore establish the election of councils or presidential municipal communities throughout the country and in the very small communities. Finally, Article 88 stipulates that the exercise of his professional activity is suspended during his term of office. The above regulations also add those of the amendment by the Ministry of Interior to the political parties, their funding, the promotion to the media, etc., for cases where the president or other executive has been sentenced for various criminal actions. But today we have other amendments and I would particularly like to refer to some of the provisions of very important importance to my constituency. First of all, I would like to refer to the amendment by the Ministry of the Environment on the Greek, the placement of the San Cosma marina and other provisions. As you can see, ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on with the Greek issues. A few days ago we voted to ratify the new TIADED Convention - Greek, and today we are dealing with other specific issues. Against Cassandra the investment of the Greek will be a reality with the seal of the government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis. But here, let me make a comment on Article 4, by which the Greek office with its staff is transferred to the Ministry of the Environment, to the General Secretariat of Spatial Planning and Urban Environment. Dear Minister, the staff of the Hellenic Office currently belong to the General Secretariat of Public Property and Tax Policy of the Ministry of Finance. These officials would like their organic positions to remain in the Ministry of Finance and to be seconded to the Greek Ministry of the Environment to the Greek office for as long as necessary, and then to be able to return to their organic positions. I would like, Minister, with your experience and your knowledge as legal, but also with your parliamentary route to see this detail. In conclusion, I would like to address to the Minister some important issues, such as the costs of compensation for the municipal councillor, the remuneration of the retired vice mayor - we have cases of retired anti-democrats who cannot take the compensation of the vice mayor - the compensation of the president of the municipal council and many other issues that are open to self-government. But today, there is a basis for the cyberdynamicity of self-government. Finally, I would like to mention the reincorporation of the self-government charter, the reintroduction of my proposal to identify - let me, Mr President, one minute, with your tolerance - the areas of national elections with the Attica Region. I am talking specifically about the Attica Region, Minister. You know, of the thirteen municipalities of my constituency of North Athens, the Municipality of Ioannina, Byron, Kesarianis, Daphne, Hymettus and Ilioupoli belong to the Central Division of Attica, while the Municipality of Glyfada, Argyroupolis, Greek, Alimos, Agios Dimitrios, Nea Smyrni, Palaio Faliro, Kallithea and Moshato - Taurou belong to the South. I had tabled a question and reinstated from this Step, the Step of the Parliament, the proposal to extend the South sector of the Attica Region to the Municipality of Painting, Byron, Kessarian, Daphne, Hymettus and Ilioupoli to identify the electoral maps of the national and self-government elections, to be specific. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, because this government is putting a strong foundation for the future of self-government, all the wings must vote in favour of this bill, a bill that turns out and which self-government earns everything that has been lost over the days of SYRIZA. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u212	Thank you, Mr. Spaniard. We will close the tenth cycle of speakers with a natural presence with Mr. Georgios Karasmani of New Democracy from beautiful Pella with its waterfalls and then go to the speakers via web. I repeat, Mr. Karaoglu prepare himself. Here you go, Mr. Karasmani.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u213	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, a week ago colleagues in the opposition asked for the restrictive measures to be lifted in this House. Big mistake, when they are still in force for large professional productive groups, the murderous virus is even exist every day we lament dozens of casualties among our fellow humans. All this time, the House has worked well, something that is certainly credited to the President himself, the Bureau and the Members of Parliament first to set the good example. And now I come to the bill. I have attended all four meetings of the committee. The rapporteur has mentioned in detail both the committees and the plenary. That is why I shall confine myself to two - three points. The draft law reintroduces governmentality to municipalities and regions and enables decisions to be taken and immediately implemented. Mayor will now be elected from the first round the one who gets 43% and one vote and receives three fifths (3/5) of the municipal council. As regards the election of the Presidents, in my personal opinion, those who take most crosses should be elected, regardless of combinations and whether the community is small or large, because this is the democratic one, and the citizens of each community should have the first say, in other words, to elect the best, those who manage their homes. I'm a supporter of independent, unarmed local government. I think the best and best people should be elected. It has been proven in practice that the system implemented by the previous government has had serious negative effects on the functioning of local government and all it has achieved was to highlight minorities in extortionist regulators. How is it possible for a hostage mayor to be able to produce a project? That's what we've been through. Many examples have been mentioned by colleagues. Crazy example, as mentioned, is the Mayor of Kavala, who, by a perpetrator of the mere analogy, has not only changed his mind, but also denounces that he was elected to the second by around 63%, but by the forty-one consultants he only took nine and that in a critical vote for a significant European programme of many millions was voted against by the municipal council and, as he said, by those elected by four hundred votes. So in this unacceptable situation with this bill, it ends. And I come to the amendment that I have sent to the main ministers concerning mountain municipalities. Under Article 2B of Law 3852/2010, as added to Law 4455/2018, the mountain municipalities were included in which 50% of their communities were designated mountainous areas. There is a paradox here, however. That is why I sent my amendment. Because there are municipalities, which, despite the fact that the majority of their area is mountainous, are not characterised as mountainous, because the number of mountainous communities is smaller than 50%. A characteristic example is the Municipality of Almopia of Pella Prefecture, which you have visited, Minister. You've seen the mayor, the municipality. It is not considered mountainous, although it extends between two mountain ranges, Kaimaktsalan and Paiko, and has a huge volume of forest land, a particular geomorphological relief, many elevation differences, a rough road network and eighty kilometers of borderline. And yet, this municipality is not mountainous. It's an unjust erection. So, with my amendment, I would ask the municipalities that I described to be designated as mountainous, to support these areas, to motivate, as you have said, Minister, the day before yesterday, for signing the ministerial decision by which you give twenty units to the children who live in border regions and compete with APA procedures. To stay, that is, the people at their place. It has been shown that this government is listening, and at the very first time it has supported local government. And as the Deputy Minister, Mr. Petsas, had mentioned, with the program "ANITONIS TRIT" and the National Recovery Plan, 5.5 billion euros were given to the regions and municipalities. I am afraid, however, that with the lack of adequate and qualified human resources and the weaknesses and malfunctions of services, apart from a few exceptions, there will usually be delays in expropriations, notices, tenders, awards and works. That is why we need qualified staff and the existing one's training. I speak from experience. Mr. Vorides knows. He's lived it too. For the first time with the Agricultural Development Programme 2014-2020 for decentralisation and drastic red tape, we allocated 20%, i.e. EUR 1.819,000, to the regions and municipalities for a series of development interventions, public and private, such as improvement plans, to young farmers' programme, processing investments in agricultural products, forest roads, rural roads. We awarded 100% of the LEADER programme, extended and without obstacles, etc. Sadly, however, I still find great delays today. Many projects have not been carried out, absorption has been too low, and this is due to the well-known nuisances and pathogens. And since I have heard about the Koukiade report and its proposals, I would urge you to take a look at the minutes of the Special Permanent Committee of the Parliament of the period 2004-2007 and its conclusions on combating bureaucracy, decentralisation, modernisation of public administration, municipalities, regions, competences, resources, multi-level governance. These proposals, although they have been fourteen years, continue to be timely, realistic, adapted to both local and European conditions. I am pleased to see that our Government takes these proposals into account in many bills, which are rainy, and what surprises me is that, despite the fact that I am twenty-five years in this House, I have not seen any bills that solve chronic problems and eradicate pathogens. In conclusion, this bill restores normality, removes the deadlocks of the previous government's legislative framework and does our government's commitment. That is why I support it. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u214	Thank you, too. Mr Theodoros Karaoglou has the floor from New Democracy for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u215	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will begin my speech by making a special reference to a classic doctrine of the Left and its political expressions, this being about the introduction of the fixed, simple and inappropriate analogous, as it says. I will attempt to make a brief historical regression to the harmful consequences - I stress, in particular, the harmful effects - of the mere analogous application in our country, which unfortunately has been linked to the worst periods of instability of our political system. For the first time, it was established in 1926 and for about two years, i.e. until 1928 that was abolished, the governments in Greece changed almost every five months. He returned in 1932 causing insolence, fragmentation of the political forces, fatigue of society, which had as a result led rule to the dictatorship of Ioannis Metaxas. We had a simple analogue again in 1946, with the result that at least ten governments were sworn to it, while a milder implementation was that of 1989, when the then government of Andreas Papandreou, PASOK, discerning its upcoming election defeat, attempted with the famous Koutsogiorgas law, manipulate the election result and mine the New Democracy's course towards power. It took three elections in June and November 1989 and April 1990 to form a fragile one - the truth - is the government with Prime Minister Constantine Mitsotakis. Unfortunately, without learning anything from the negative historical experience, SYRIZA restored the simple analogue in 2016, claiming that it is an allegedly progressive demand. The argument, of course, collapsed immediately because, obviously, neither the ANELs nor the Golden Dawn who voted for it belong to the so-called progressive space. On the contrary, it was the desperate attempt of the SYRIZA government at the time to mix the political cards, due to the certainty that it had developed in society and political parties for its upcoming defeat. It was therefore based on a myth and with a vehicle of civilization it sought to create states of political hostage and political anomaly. Because of the micro-party feasibility that was adopted at the time, we now have municipalities that lose money from the programmes. There was a previous mention by my colleague, George Karasmani, of the municipality of Kavala. There are mayors who are obliged to implement the technical programmes of counter-population, while in two hundred thirty-three out of thirty-three municipalities and six of the thirteen districts of the country the elected mayors and districts are a small minority on the municipal council. So under no circumstances, in my view, simple analogue is not a model of democracy. The citizen, ladies and gentlemen, is voting for the election of the mayor, the district minister, and not for the setting-up of a committee of two, three, four or five parties and parties, which have to meet for hours in order to reach a decision, which will still be majority and not unanimous. I am referring to a nominal example, the exceptional mayor of Orestiad and my personal friend, Vassilis Mavridis, who daily pays the consequences of the paradox and absurd electoral system implemented by SYRIZA in local government. This mayor, who was elected from the first Sunday at 50.26%, nevertheless has only sixteen municipal councillors from the thirty three elected. When I visited him in my capacity at the time, the Deputy Interior Minister, responsible for Macedonia and Thrace, he confessed to me that the first months of his term of office were very difficult and that it was difficult to make a decision. With a few words, he immediately destroyed the then-government account of developing a culture of partnership within municipal councils. And in order not to hide behind our finger, ladies and gentlemen, in Greece we do not have the culture of consensus that distinguishes our northern partners in the European Union and therefore we cannot at least imitate them at this stage. Consider the following: What would happen if, during the pandemic period, the wheel of the country held a government that would result from the mere analogy and compromises that would result from it? Or, furthermore, what attitude would it take toward the issue of the refugee and asymmetrical threat that we accepted to Evros if at that time the country were governed by a heterogeneous coalition, such as that of the period 2015-2019? The ones - see SYRIZA - would propose their so-called humanism and open borders policy, and the - see ANEL - would call for drastic solutions and, of course, because of a lack of understanding, the country would be unable to defend its sovereign rights. Not to mention the management of the recovery fund, where the ideological differences in government partners would mobilise the productive forces of our country. Since, therefore, the simple analogue leads to insolence, to political monetarism and to decisions of raw conciliation, the Interior Ministry's bill comes at the right time to close the door of political inconsistency. The challenges of the time require political and economic stability, they require rulership and not political puppies, which are intended to distort the will of the majority. Ladies and gentlemen, in order for municipalities and regions to be managed smoothly and correctly, the changes promoted by the Ministry of Interior were necessary. I refer in summary to some of them. First, the five-year term comes back. This means that the new municipal and regional authorities that will emerge from the polls of 8 October 2023 will have a full five-year term, which will begin on 1 January 2024. Practical result? We'll have a great self-government service. Secondly, mayor's election from the first round will take place at 43% plus one vote, while ensuring that three fifths of the members of the council, municipal or regional, are elected to the winner of the election so that we have a stable municipal or regional council that supports the implementation of the mayor's or regional programme. Furthermore, the 31 August of the year of the elections, i.e. 2023 in the case of the drawing up and declaration of the combinations and 10 October in the case of the proclamation of them by the competent court in order to ensure that there is full control of the electoral expenditure and that candidates are informed in good time to the electorate. The bill also sets out on the basis of specific population scales the number of members of municipal and regional councils and councils of municipal communities. It also rationalises and introduces the framework of election and incompatibilities. With these changes, we ensure that the new electoral law is representative and as its main aim it will have the strengthening of the formation of a municipal or regional authority. In other words, we help the proportionality to be better expressed in municipal and regional councils, eliminating all the consequences of the current system. After all, ladies and gentlemen, it is wrong to wait for the simple analogue for cooperation to take place. Such thoughts are infancy and do not reflect the degree of maturity of our political system. From there on, I would like to remind you and stress that the change of electoral law is a central political commitment by the Government of Mr Mitsotakis and we are implementing it. At the same time, however, it is the most decisive step towards day-to-day effective production of municipal and regional administrative results always for the benefit of citizens. This is how we ensure that the public better judges the heresy that won the self-government election and has the responsibility of the administration, while setting solid foundations, to win the bet on cooperation between the central government and local government. Ladies and gentlemen, the way in which a mayor or regional mayor is elected is the tool for a better administration. In this light, the New Democracy Parliamentary Group proudly votes in favour of the Interior Ministry's bill on changes in the elections to the government, because it is transferred to the next day. It is an institutional part of a strong development dimension, as it will be accompanied by resources and essential responsibilities, so that municipalities and regions play a leading role in implementing real policies for the benefit of local communities. Before I close, for a minute, I would like to make two points - proposals to the President-in-Office of the Council. Firstly, the election of the presidents of municipal communities in settlements of less than three hundred inhabitants is a given one. As far as settlements are concerned, more than three hundred inhabitants are left open. There are, of course, four possibilities. The first one says that the president of the municipal community should be appointed by the mayor, which, in my view, is a tragic mistake. Secondly, it must be elected by the majority of the local council, which I also consider to be not the right one. Thirdly, it is the majority advisor to the majority of the combinations. Fourth proposal is to define as the head of the municipal community someone who does not need the cross. My view is that it would be much better if the citizen, by voting for the municipal combination of the "X" party, knew and who would be the president of the municipal community. If this is promoted and possibly not accepted by the CEDEFOP - it is possible - at least the majority adviser to the majority of the combination is elected. Secondly, the proposal is as follows: there is an important problem in relation to the granting of the fixed advance. Unfortunately, the existing system is highly bureaucratic, so that almost no local community has taken the money from the fixed advance. I would suggest, Minister, to the next piece of legislation that will come for local government to deal with this pathogen. We are talking about very little money, and it should be possible for the presidents of municipal communities to handle them, so that they can deal with various micro-costs. I will close with these considerations, saying very clearly that I am voting in favour of the bill, because I think it is particularly positive. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u216	Be well, Mr. Karaoglu. And from Thessaloniki we will go to Chios and Mr. Andreas Michaelides from SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance. Mr. Michaelides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u217	Thank you, Mr President. My colleague, Mr Karaoglu, will allow me to comment on what he said in an introductory statement. Because I consider him to be a serious colleague, I consider it my duty to make it clear to him. With two words, he charged the simple analogues of the whole climate, which was shaped either in the mid-wars in our country or after the Civil War, in the post-National Greece or even in the younger years. I would like to remind him that, first of all, simple proportional systems have not been applied for this entire period. Secondly, in this climate of clandestine democracy, as it was called, the international player, foreign countries, who considered our country to be a protectorate and tried to apply protector policies in our country, thirdly, the involvement of the palace factor in the political life of the country, and lastly, of course, people who have been inclined to do so - I would say - who have led to unfortunate developments, apostasies, etc. Let me be forgiven for this intervention, but I thought it was a historic acrobaticism that took place and I had to present my opinion. The draft law, which we are debating today, ladies and gentlemen, and dear colleagues, is essentially a predetermined result of a project, a fouling of the central predictions of the 'CLISTEN I' flagship programme. This is a coordinate project undertaken by the present government in the first few months of its prominence and expressed through the gradual deforestation of the responsibilities of municipal councillors and local communities. The aim of the regulatory issues brought about by the Government was, above all, a mere proportional introduction to the election of the municipal and regional councils, as well as the intra-democratic decentralisation which was attempted by KLITHENH by strengthening the self-sufficiency of local communities. The government's study confirms that the pursuits of the former had political stimuli and little to do with practical problems of "KLITHENH", which admittedly existed and which at the time had not even been able to apply or with issues of governance to the OTAs, as the draft's draft report monotonously mentions. Professor of Constitutional Law Georgios Sorielis in his text, in which he criticises certain provisions and provisions of "KLISTHENI", noted in 2019 that these legislative interventions of the then government constituted an anti-democratic distortion and a deterioration of the institution of local government, in particular, a manifest diversion from the European self-government given. Often in the public sphere there is a reluctance on the part of proportional electoral systems, on the basis that they do not promote effective governance and that - as is allegedly - there cannot be the culture of dialogue and understanding in other European countries. This is obviously a argument, not only conservative but also unclean, as there is no chaos in the countries where the simple analogue is applied - let alone when it comes to local self-government - and the culture of cooperation is not established in specific states. Obviously, this culture is a derivative of practices and processes that, over the years, shape specific political attitudes. It is therefore a great, lost opportunity for democracy at local level that there was no time even to test partnerships in which KLISTENIS intended and promoted. And, of course, it is deeply hypocritical that the abolition of mere analogous to OTAs comes from a faction that likes to blame the Left for dogmatism, splitting, lifting dialogue, etc. With regard to the provisions of the bill, I would like to address two points: firstly, the attempt to weaken and marginalise local communities, in which KLITHENIS once again gave the opportunity to express their voice and to manage local issues. See the recent announcements of the Steering Committee of the Network of the Communities of Greece, as well as the comments in the consultation, expressing their vertical reaction to the abolition of the separate polls and the selection of local councils and the cold bypass of the local process. Nor should we be surprised, ladies and gentlemen, as the conservative party historically fears local society and wants local communities manipulated by client networks. My second point concerns islands, to which you will allow me to insist a little more. First of all, the provision of n.4150/2013 for a specific assessment of the impact of each law on island regions has gone for a long time, as you know. This, of course, is the case in every bill of government. I would, however, expect even two formal words on islands to analyse the consequences of a bill on local government. Yes, I am. Secondly, I would like to point out that the undemocratic reduction in the number of regional and municipal councils almost everywhere is lacking with particular intensity in island societies. He also points to it, Mr Minister, in his resolution, and the Northern Aegean Regional Council, which, as you know, does not fit us. Finally, I must remind you that the characteristics of islands are geographical inconvenience, self-sufficiency and the particular conditions prevailing on each island. Restricting the members of the regional councils will lead to the exclusion of the particular voice of many islands, especially the smaller ones in the population, not taking into account their particular needs in the decisions taken at regional level, increasing insular inequalities and weakening island regions in general. I shall conclude, Mr President. Unfortunately, I am not at all optimistic that these voices of island societies and, in general, of the region and local communities against the centralised and anti-democratic forecasts of this bill will be heard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u218	Thank you, Mr. Michaelides. And from Chios to Corfu, Mr. Dimitrios Biagi of the Change Movement. Mr. Biagi, you have seven minutes at your disposal. Good evening!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u219	Thank you very much. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the crisis and the management of the pandemic would have expected someone to convince even the most skeptical role that strong and dynamic local government should play, contributing decisively to the country's effective governance. Unfortunately, instead, we see the government coming and tabling a bill today by underestimating the institution itself for local authorities in society. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this draft law provides for a reduction in the number of municipal councillors, while increasing candidates, but also for the weakening of communities. It also provides for an increase in the paradox for participation in the electoral process and mayor's election with 43% at the same time as the majority of municipal councillors. All this composes an attractive scene elections with strong exclusions, while undermining pluralism, undermining popular sovereignty and reducing the representativeness of these institutions and institutions. Ladies and gentlemen, every region knows its problems better than anyone. Therefore, solutions cannot be designed and implemented only by the centre. This model has been tested for years and I think we all agree that it no longer achieves the goal. On the contrary, a strong local administrative body can also better map matters, but also plan and act where necessary, in order to deal with them as a whole. It is no coincidence that even these Community support programmes are designed to operate in the administrative structure of strong local authorities. The current Government of New Democracy deposites an entirely skinful, unrealistic draft law, in order to correct its bad texts. It does not take into account, however, the ever-changing needs of the inhabitants, the next-side people in the neighborhood. And the oxymometer in this story is that both the New Democracy party and the SYRIZA party promote exactly the same political positions, namely minority administrations. On the one hand, SYRIZA was trying with "KLITHEN" to highlight the minorities to extortionist political regulators and, on the other hand, today, the leadership of the New Democracy with 43% of this bill leads to minority administrations. Ladies and gentlemen, the juncture requires areas, reforms and not communication logic and approaches. Provisions that undermine the proper administration of the ATTs cannot be promoted. It does not make sense to weaken the representativeness of the institutions. It is politically unacceptable for micro-party purposes and logical to be distorted and, ultimately, the genuine will of popular sovereignty. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, with Law 4600/2019 the former municipalities of Corfu, Kefalonia, Lesvos, Samos and Serbs - Velvetou were split. Despite any initial ambitions of functionality and efficiency, the division has brought together a number of problems, as the sub-optimalisation of the properties is now strong and visible as a result of their decommissioning. The new municipalities are facing huge problems because of the current financial shortage, while twenty months after their creation they have not yet cleared up their assets and cash reserves, while there is still a large number of projects planned by the single municipalities that concern young people and are moved by the successors municipalities, which unfortunately do not go any further. In Corfu, in the area where I come from, government republics are not perfect, as the splitting up of the single municipality that has become sloppy, unplanned, unsupported, is stirring the daily lives of the citizens. From water management, still unresolved, to waste, overnight, the correlations are changing from one side to the other. From the inter-universal DMV to serve specific interests, days later comes the notorious Article 93 in the middle of a pandemic, where it transferred the responsibilities of management of waste from regional level only to the island regions of the southern Aegean and the Ionian Islands, leaving out of the North Aegean region, which perhaps some could compare with the Ionian Islands region. All of this is done with an unconstitutional, backward and non-functional provision, which is in full contrast with the real needs of local communities, not respecting the specificities of island regions, as is provided for in the Constitution itself. At the same time, the Minister, with this bill, could correct injustices that are even to him, Mr Vorides, a fair request, such as the possibility of electing at least one representative of the Municipality of Paxon on the Ionian Islands Regional Council. Ladies and gentlemen, unlike other islands or small island complexes of the Ionian Sea and the Aegean Sea, which have a similar population, geographical and other characteristics, the island of Paxos was not recognised as a regional unit in Article 3 of the ‘KALIKRATI’. This causes residents, on the one hand, feelings of injustice and neglect from the state and, on the other, deprives them of their ability to represent themselves on the relevant regional council. What do you have to say to the Paxians, Minister? That they're right and that they'll have to wait? Will you finally respect the unanimous decisions of prefecture councils, regional councils and the Paxon municipal council? This case concerns local society since 2010, when the current Minister of Foreign Affairs Mr. Dendias had tabled a question to the then Minister of the Interior about this injustice. You have reached the point, Minister, today to reject Mr Ghika's proposal, and indeed in summary procedures, without much talk, so that you do not include the proposed change to the island of Paxos in this bill. So, what do you say to the Paxians? That you understand them, but do not need representation in their region, as well as that they do not need representation in the grade or that local communities do not need to be represented on the board of the Port Authority of Corfu, which manages their ports, their vital transport from the sea? No municipality of Corfu, on the board of the port agency, while the regional ports have been devastated and are planned for marinas, ports, water, local communities are absent from the big decisions. Who sets priorities for all this, if not local societies? What do you have to answer the unanimous resolutions of the municipalities on all this? Representation in the administration of the organization, which was respected both by the administration of the GOI and by the former government of SYRIZA, ignores the current Government of New Democracy. It is appropriate and necessary to change it, for reasons of support for democratic governance, transparency, good administration and the principle of proportionality, and also to strengthen the region's social and economic development and cohesion. Ladies and gentlemen, the Change Movement maintains close and strong ties with self-government and dealt with it and continues to treat it as a political institution and not as a party body. It wants self-government, independent, unintentional, not manipulated and not manipulated, with specific and substantial responsibilities. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, as a man from self-government, I would just like to say to you and convey this assumption to you, in my view. The reform of the "CAPONITRIA" despite its defects in response to the jewels of that time. It was a project in which the collective effort to claim was dominated and in which Kostas Scandalidis left the mark of collective spirit. That's our difference, gentlemen. We, as a Change Movement, propose and legislate for the whole society, with a compass of how we want our country to be tomorrow, not as we see the prevalence of our political space in tomorrow's elections. And this, if you like, is our great heretic incision both with the New Democracy and with SYRIZA. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u220	Be well, Mr. Biagi. And from Corfu we go to Carditsa, Mr. Spyridon Lappa, MP of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u221	Thank you, Mr President. Good evening to you and all colleagues. I am addressing the legal Mr Voridis, transferring a thought to Aristotle in this debate, who said that the future is through the present projection of the past. I say this in order to point out this: Since the establishment of the modern Greek state, the conservative party in the country has never taken a legislative initiative itself when the government was in the vehicle and not even one has voted when the parties at other times in the government took a legislative initiative. Why did he do that? He didn't do it by accident. Nor did he, of course, do it for any other reason. She did it because she was in her political agenda, it was in her DNA that the political fact that this party can function, acted - and she also brought some good ones - based only on the customer perception. Whatever breaks it and makes it difficult and closes skylights, windows, doors, hallways, underground, inshore, downside, feels politically insecurity and loses the ground under her feet. One is that. Secondly, we have heard today from a Member of the New Democracy - who is remarkable and I respect him otherwise - that apart from the issue of cybercrificy, the OTAs are also affected: because the Greek society is immature, Mr President - Mr Karaoglu said - to adopt electoral systems - I would say - self-government policies, which have been established in all the countries of Europe since 1950. It is not the fault of any immunities of the Greek society. The Greek society is always ready to integrate, assimilate, implement and enjoy any legislative proposal that favours it in terms of democracy. If anyone is immature, it is the New Democracy Party and its politicians are formerly ancestors. Thirdly, following on from this remark, Mr President, I would like to say to you: there are no politicians in our country of great size, of course of time, scientists, universities, senior administrative bodies, responsible bodies and bodies working with the administrative system in the country in general, for for forty years at conferences, conferences, two-days, studies, which do not raise their hand and push it firmly towards the political system and do not say: If you want the administrative system in the country to see a white day, look at its core which is self-government, because if you make self-government in the image and uniformity of the central administration, then along with the central administration it is scanned and self-government, which is in the bottom and last cell of the Greek society. This cell is which, in difficult times, historical, even under foreign occupation, kept - as the scientists and historians of course say today and of the future and of the past - the social and national cohesion of this country. And we're overlooking it! What's the bill doing today? It is against the democracy cell, which is first the communities and, of course, the municipalities and regions, with the adoption of electoral systems, which I call on the ministers to tell us which model they have, to the point where they are looking, to the point where they look. In this long past before the '50s, where's the landmark? According to this, all the societies of Europe, all the municipalities, all the regions throughout the European continent, have introduced as the sole system in their regions and municipalities the simple analogue and even states such as England, the whole of Scandinavia - Sweden, Finland, Norway, Denmark - Germany - all the Länder of Germany - Italy, Spain. I ask Mr Vorides this: In the last elections in Madrid, Minister, with what electoral system was your mayor's friend elected in Madrid? Let me tell you this: with the simple and inappropriate analogy, because it took over 50%. This is the electoral system. And where do you turn your gaze? In any case, do not tell us that it is the immaturity of the Greek society that does not allow the adoption of such systems. It is the immaturity of the political system as it has been governed for seventy years, for decades whole, mainly by your party. Because PASOK took initiatives, took steps, not complete. I will tell you why it was not complete, Mr President, and I will explain it. That is right, Mr Biagis said before that he did say that PASOK took initiatives on local government, gave an air, gave some responsibilities. But, Mr President, what did he forget? Forget about democracy. It was dealt with as a secondary one - I told the committees - and as an incidental issue, resulting in the elections of Athens, Sakellaridis - Kamine opponents, at almost the same rates, with a thousand five hundred votes, to take the same number of municipal councillors and the next Sunday the almost equal candidate, Mr Kamine, - I say it's not for the sake of democracy - when he was elected mayor, took 60% of the municipal councillors, with a thousand votes different from the first Sunday. That's the pathogen. And you need to know something and be stressed, as the scientists point out. Because we are now a country that at least has a high acquis of scientific knowledge, let us listen to the scientists and academics who highlight it and keep the finger on us from now on: Do not forget the issue of democracy in local government agencies. If there is no democratic and political legitimacy, whatever electoral system you find to help someone, with some percentage becoming mayor, it will not be effective, it will not have legal effects! That's proven! Everyone says so. In 2016 the Greek Parliament organized a conference and came the fringe of political and administrative science in our country and wrote out a book that I have here for the administrative system in general. Half of it refers to local government. The issue of democracy is a top priority. You cannot smack it under the pretext of being imperial or allegedly immaturity of the Greek people in 2021, when societies in Europe run at gloomy speed and we continue to go with the Arab. Because with such legislative choices you are holding the Greek society bound, having to have the cart in front of the horse, and if it doesn't, it just drags the araba. Thirdly, Mr President, we have called the committees. I ask the Minister or the main ministers: did you hear them? If you have not listened to them, I will remind you of something, Mr Voridis, that we are legal from the words of the Acquisition: 'Man has two ears and one mouth, hear twice and speak one'. So listen, what have institutions told you, very typical examples of two, three, not more, why do I have no time: What have they told you? Don't you dare harm the special poll, because she raised, released forces for the first time in the history of the institution, not only young people who were on the sofa and chair and were indifferent to their things, but also young people at age 81% and activated and triggered this great movement of communities, which you want to do today? You should bury it. What for? To be true, it says - on the chariot of the successful mayor. But what's the special cellulopsis blocking? Here open a parable: Don't listen to your account, Mr. Voridis, now, we're lawyers. There is no legal personality of the community or executive powers. Stop saying it's a third degree of self-government! The parentheses are closed. To speak legally and to be serious! So these powers today tell you the network with its research - and sent us the memorandum to the House - do not send them back to the sofas and chairs, this world, this power of communities that through the process of volunteering did miracles in difficult hours for the country. And you insist on doing it! There has not been a community liaison representative who has not shot your bill, at least in the area concerning the communities, in the separate polling and in the election of the Community councils. And I want a question to be answered by Mr Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u222	And that's what you're closing down with, Mr. Lappa!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u223	Yes, Mr. President. Why do you do so, Minister, since it does not affect to any extent and in any way the majority of the municipal council or the mayor's decisions the fact of the separate ballot and the fact of the Community councils? It's another issue, it's about their own place, it doesn't affect at all, it doesn't affect. It neither affects nor makes it difficult or helps, in no way connects. Why are you doing this? You do it because it is your understanding of the participatory, solidarity, the functionality of the communities and, more generally, of what democratically highlights new powers and new people in particular. This is what you fear, participation, collectiveness and democratic power. Mr President, I would like to end by saying that the bill - on a philosophical level, you know what it does, Mr President? So, I'd like to go back a little bit, in old times. He tells the mayors "I don't want to teach you to fish, I want to give you fish". But again, the stoics - I will refer to ancient times - said "do not give people fish, teach them to fish!" That's not what you did and you didn't even wait a while to see how, anyway, the regional and municipal councils will work in what way.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u224	Thank you very much, Mr. Lappa. Be well!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u225	I'm done, Mr. President. And Mr Voridis I close with one word: Minister, Mr Colleagues, Mr Colleagues, Mr Colleagues, the municipal and regional councils should learn to hold a conference, such as the jury. They have to make a decision. That's the way it is. But when you slander it, you exaggerate it, do you deceive it, huh, what are you expecting? And you come a month after the election to give it up completely with your speeches. It's a shame! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u226	Thank you very much. Mr. Socrates Vardakis from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u227	Thank you, Mr President. Fighting greetings from Crete, Mr President, also in the light of the employment bill! Ladies and gentlemen, we are here today witnessing another attempt by the government to curtail democratic rights and to keep any decisions on local societies exclusively in the hands of a few people. How the popular vote is interpreted shows the level of democracy of a place. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANAOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] The bill of the Ministry of Interior entitled "Election of Municipal and Regional Authorities" is an embodied portrayal of all those who are emphasizing and embraced by the government, the New Democracy of Mr.Mitsotakis. Greece, Mr President, has the culture, the historical experience, the knowledge of political cooperation, especially in matters of local self-government, where we are leaving from the narrow terms of partyism and aiming at the demands and needs of the community and the natural and technical space in which the citizens live and operate. Therefore, the problem of governance, Mr President, which, according to the government, is the risk of the bill, does not exist. The abolition of the mere proportional, which is a faithful portrayal of popular will, the reintroduction of the five-year term, the 3% limit for the introduction of self-government orders to municipal and regional councils, the reduction of the number of municipal councillors, the emergence of regional and mayor of 43% from the first round and the 60% of the seats of the board of sub-governments, from which will become regional directors and mayors, and the abolition of the polls on municipal communities - said so very eloquently, Spyros Lappas, "what are you afraid of, Mr. Minister, from local councils?" - of which local councils have emerged by transferring powers, Minister, that you are really in the wrong direction. Therefore, from the diffusion of decisions downwards and decentralisation, we turn back to over-concentration of powers in a man and his team according to the standards of your state of service. If the popular will, Minister, is not reflected in the composition of the councils of local government, then we can talk about its abuse, because in local communities it is the right thing to hear all voices, to have a composition, to cooperate. Provisions of the previous government to deepen democracy, decentralise responsibilities, and also a system of self-control of decisions of local government through the culture of cooperation are far from the logic and objectives of the current government. At the moment, we should talk about how we would go one step further, one step forward, following the innovative provisions of KLISTEN I, which focused on the imprinting of the popular will, cooperation, transparency and decentralisation. Unfortunately, you choose to return to a past that has created deficitd municipalities, the result of opaque procedures, unequal treatment for the transfer of resources and, in some cases, completely ignore the real problems of local communities. We are talking today about time issues when we have not discussed extensively and thoroughly with the local government to reorder its responsibilities as announced on how to manage and implement projects in its areas of responsibility related to the National Recovery Plan. Ladies and gentlemen, the risk was never rulership for this bill, but the limitation of democracy and the concentration of powers and the management of resources in the hands of a few, without obstacles. With your bill - and I am closing with it, Mr President - Mr Voridis, unfortunately, you are restoring lawlessness, corruption and conflict in local and regional self-government. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u228	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Mr Athanasios Davakis from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u229	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the bill we have been discussing for two days reinstates - in my view - the normality of the governance and functioning of the local government bodies. The accusations we have heard since yesterday from the Qualification - and not just from the Opposition - that this bill restricts the ability of the political groups that are minority to take part in the formulation of local decisions by thus abolishing political compositions and limiting the representativeness of politicians at local level, I think they are a long way off. Because this argument is based on perception, the dogma, I would say that the composition between the views of the majority and the minority cannot be achieved only by means of simple dialogue and the exchange of serious, persuasive arguments and policies, but that it requires minority to also have the possibility of vetoing majority decisions, blackmailing in other specific words and specific tactics. In other words, the opposition tells us that the strength of the arguments at the municipal council's table is not enough, but we need to strengthen the minority and with the possibility of preventing decisions where and whenever they wish, something that has been done lately by the law that has been passed and something that has been bitterly experienced by the officials of the government, regardless of factions, which we have been talking about so long and we have seen how they have been managed and how they have worked with the law that is being void, after the law to be passed by the Government of New Democracy. What, then, is the real result of this logic? Is it really easy, ladies and gentlemen, for the compositions and the formulation of the policies pursued, I would say, to the local government of political alliances, or is trade, in fact, being strengthened by election and post-election and led by local government to paralysis and failure to take decisions? Experience from the application of the mere analogy that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government has introduced into local government shows us that what has actually been achieved was not the composition of opinions, but - as a result of which I say - the intergovernmentality and the transaction with what it can bring to functionality, but above all the effectiveness of the resolution of local affairs and municipal authorities. That is why, today, the government, in keeping with a specific commitment by Mr Mitsotakis, recommends this bill, a bill which introduces significant modifications to the way in which regions and municipalities operate, such as the five-year cycle, the five-year term. In this way, a stable political time is being introduced which disconnects local government from the European elections, thereby strengthening the local nature of the relevant electoral process. Also, the election threshold for the first round, as has been said many times in this bill, to 43% plus one vote and to set a limit for municipal council election to 3%. It is perhaps most important - and this is perhaps the most important one - to elect three fifths of the board members from the winner, from the combination of the election winners. Apart from the basic philosophy of this bill and the important interventions that are being introduced with it, I would also like to refer to certain specific aspects of it on the basis of some points that have arisen from discussions that have been made with self-government officials of my country, Laconia. First of all, I believe that the reduction proposed in Article 3 from twenty-seven to twenty-fifths of the number of municipal councillors from between ten and thirty-thousand inhabitants does not offer - has been heard by many colleagues, Minister - major advantages, while complicating the process of formulating and implementing committees. I would therefore suggest that the number of municipal councillors on this population level, between ten and thirty thousand, should return to twenty-seven. Also, especially for the smaller communities of our region, the Greek region, the separate election of the president of the municipal community, as provided for in Articles 20, 22, complicates several things, especially in relation to the previous system, according to which the president of a municipal community is elected by the candidate with most cross-references. I would suggest that it be reviewed, because it is important in terms of efficiency, I would say, of election, but also of representativeness. In conclusion, I believe that the bill we hold in our hands is a necessary and beneficial instrument for local self-government. Critical points and problems that have arisen from the implementation of mere proportionate treatment and I believe that they are in the right direction, so that the institution of local government can function in the way it has to operate in the interests of local society and local affairs. And by saying, Minister, 'local affairs', I would like to say that this constitutional concept of 'local affairs' must be reviewed after it has been registered, I would say, in the 1975 Constitution, but also in the constitutions before 1975, and that it should also be reviewed on your behalf by means of specific legislative intervention - I believe that this is necessary - the concept of the administrative authority called 'decentralised administration'. I believe that decentralised administrations must either be simplified or interconnected with the regional unit or, in any case, the regional administration cannot refer to five, six ministries with what this means for its effectiveness and functionality. It's something that it's time to see both the concept of the local case and the concept of decentralised administration, in order to make things simpler and that's why it's more effective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u230	Thank you, Mr Davaki. And now Mr Alexander Triantafylides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u231	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, speaking of self-government, we are talking about direct democracy, we are talking about the voice of the citizens. The voice of the citizens, in esteeming what they live and experience, notes that they are selling patriotism and are now renting the Acropolis. They were selling economy and well paid new jobs, and now they're paying off. They were selling growth, and now they're bringing 'bafos'. They were selling order and security, now lawlessness and death contracts every day throughout the country. They were selling education, and now they're cutting off the new generation from the universities to send it to college. Last week in the House they sold an equal share of the same people's vote. Last week, only all the votes were equal, but a few votes this week, 43% of the votes, are more equal than the others. Will you apologise within the sacred Chamber of Parliament, Mr Vorides, for the citizens and politicians that you have bewildered, have you targeted? I do not ask for it because you and your apologies are not believed. You've been elected by fraud, you rule by fraud, you communicate with fraud. Gentlemen of Government Mitsotakis, you are the epitome of political fraud. "Archivist" of the tragedy that Greek citizens live in, the first Minister of State, Mr. Voridis, who, as if he were in a courthouse at one week, buys as a civil lawsuit and next week as a defence in the same court for the same case. This is the job of the wise man, to support legality and the equitableness of the foreign vote, when we must measure the vote of the homosexuals and the refusal to equal the internal vote, when we talk about municipal elections and later about national elections. The unbearable lightness of the "nosticism"! With reinforced rather than simply proportional bankrupt the country. With enhanced and not just proportionally, you put the country in the communiqué cannibalism. With enhanced and not just proportional blooming, remoula, predator and corruption in local government. And that's not because SYRIZA MP says so, but because that's how the Citizen's Counselor shows up every year in his reports. With a reinforced analogue, the 'SIEMENS scandal' was swept away, and justice confirmed and cleaned up the Mississippi festival and the influx into the funds of the two former major parties, with political responsibilities, criminal responsibilities, without names. I remember the 'CARRIATORY', 'CALCARRIAT', 'CLOSURE', reforms with a different facet. We are talking here about form - if we are talking about form - which marks the Mitsotakis - Vorides project. We're not talking about either cloak - glory - or beauty - or courage. We are talking exclusively about Quasimodo. "Koussimodo Reform" is worthy of your work. We are talking about abuse and restoration of the concept of subsidiarity, representativeness, the principle of closeness to citizens, more direct democratic legitimacy. We're really two different worlds. We represent civil society. You represent the best friends' society. A common denominator and sole objective is the worship of the chair of power, the prestige, distribution, distribution and grabbing of state, regional and local authority. The party shares state oxygen, three months a year, to its members only, he said. Direct assignments, remulsions, corruption, local, regional and pan-Hellenic networks. All in place, organized and above all controlled. It is the government 'with a signal for the pupil', as Mithridat says. Proof? First place in danger. In full force since yesterday, the new bankrupt. In the midst of a pandemic, the Mitsotakis Government delivers businesses and households to their lenders, their entire property is liquidated without the exception of the main residence. Violent restructuring against small and medium-sized enterprises is in full progress. With what moral stature will the many benefited by the state corps through the recapitalisation - and therefore the taxpayers - go bank administrations will go bankrupt small and natural businesses and people, while not touching the great batter that has the name 'Kyriakos Mitsotakis' and 'New Democracy', the party that is immersed in debts, which you owe and which you insist not to pay for the banks as a whole? From your balance sheets, in 2015 you owed EUR 210 million, in 2016 EUR 238 million, in 2017, then EUR 290 million, in 2019 EUR 320 million, and this year you reached a debt of EUR 342 million. Between 2015 and 2020 138m euros were added in addition! Will the houses of the former Heads of the New Democracy or the Treasury of the New Democracy be seized? Based on the bankruptcy of the New Democracy, companies owe and go bankrupt. Citizens owe and go bankrupt. The New Democracy owes, does not pay, and must not go bankrupt. The administrations of the banks that operate - do we see - solely on the basis of private economic criteria will submit a request for the bankruptcy of the New Democracy? What don't you understand? The "law and order" escaped. To increase cruelty is not so much to blame for, as the certainty of criminals is that they will not be arrested, he said a New Democracy MEP. There is a climate of lawlessness, derailing crime, a climate of insecurity and a loss of control by the Ministry of Civil Protection. Where's the law and order you promised, Mr. Mitsotakis? Where are we going to sleep with open windows and open doors, Mr. Mitsotakis? However, as reliable polls assess, within the five best ministers of the government it is Mr Chrysochoidis. They know. You, Greek citizens, don't need to know. The polls know about you. He's in the top five ministers! You have an intolerance to democracy. You have an allergy in consultation, in the painful exchange of proposals, arguments, in the suffering, in the anonymity of dialogue, in the position, in the contrast, in the composition. You appeal to enforcing, authoritarianism, to a man's authority. What did you say, Mr. Voridis, the one with the wood? "Legislation also contains evidence of compelling" you say. Wood is an element of compelling. In this context, you are cycling and subjugating the institution of self-government. You reduce the number of advisors in all regions and major municipalities, but also in the majority of communities, 20% on average, highlighting the oligarchal conception of the right to democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u232	All right, Mr. Comrade. Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u233	Mr President, I shall conclude. The fewer they deal with the commons, the better for the New Democracy. On the contrary, it increases the possible number of nominations to 150% of seats per OTA in order to exclude combinations from the elections. It is obvious that with the proposed bill you seek to establish and consolidate an authoritarian non-transparent system of governance controlled by the conservative party. The aim is to exclude the progressive forces and, as Mr Vorides said, to take institutional measures so that the Left can no longer rule. That's how business happens until these SYRIZA weird people come. And all of them, the Athenian, political, economic, mediator prince, will take care of the Greek people, not to come back to SYRIZA's "surprises". But at the end of the day you decide, the sovereign people. Now you understand, sovereign people, because they sucked your ears "Go, Tsipras, leave SYRIZA". Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u234	Thank you very much, Mr Triantafylides. Mr. Boubas Konstantinos from the Greek Solution has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u235	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good evening, everyone. Ladies and gentlemen, CLITHENIS today will cry. He will cry for this great name that truly connects his name to self-government, which is certainly not self-government, but heterody over all these decades. It is the frustrated government over heterogeneous - self-government. Before I go there, I take the opportunity to talk about the first residence. I would remind you once again of something, because it saddens us all in the Greek Solution and democracy must cry. When we said that for the first residence of a number of judges in the schools there is a training document for young judges who will be able to judge, a mandate, that is, "support the banking system and take any deceit on the subjects, namely the borrowers", Minister Tsiara admitted this, but said: "We cannot intervene in judicial power." So, with great pain, and disappointment, no party came out to condemn what was happening in the judiciary schools - and Mr Tsipras and Mrs Gennamas personally knew it - on the occasion of the bankruptcy code and the first residence. And I regret that there are many lawyers and lawyers in Parliament. I want to believe that they didn't say so that the Greek solution was not uploaded. So I partially accept it, because if anything else goes through my mind, democracy is actually crying because they didn't come out then to be placed. Fortunately, Themida - because the sword of justice - vindicates what we were shouting and said by the Marios Ice: "You cannot prosecute the subjects, i.e. the borrowers, because the ad hoc court will judge why they have come to this situation that they cannot pay their first residence". I say this because it may be the most serious issue and the Greek people are uninformed about what was going on with this notorious training text. And because the Greek Solution took it out, you did it a gargora. A few channels said it. I pass it and it is now up to the Arena Ice, with the confidence of the largest tier theme. Let's go to "CLISTED". Because there was a historical regression about the enhanced majority, enhanced analogy, "KLITHENIS" - because we really sprinkle this historic name - it gave great weight to the Church of the Municipality. What does "Civil Church" mean? It's the citizens' meeting. From the first moment, gentlemen of the government, you wanted to degrade the municipal councils, that is, the local parliament. How? You were very competent to the Economic Committee to decide whether a matter is of major importance and to come to the municipal councils. Now what are you doing? Are we reducing the number of municipal councillors while there has to be a pandering and an orgasm of self-government in municipal councils? So will we prevent people from dealing with their commons and local society? First of all, it is wrong, gentlemen, to compare the electoral system of the national Parliament with the local government. There are other criteria and standards. You forbid a combination from being able to enter with less than 3%. But there are some people who are visible. What do we do? Do we cut romance and vision from local communities? Do we degrade the IQ and the level of citizens' crisis over who will they choose for their place? To enhance the quality of life of local communities, do we prevent them? So, 43% of you say, Mr. Voridis and gentlemen of the government, why didn't you do it 44%? Why don't you do it 42%? Why don't you do it 42.8 points on the Richter scale - say it that way. How does 43% turn out? In other words, it's like telling him to the municipalities "The 43% minority will rule you, take the mayor and bath him now". You're gonna wash him up, you want, you don't want to. Because you say that on the second Sunday there will be some strange alliances, so that the parties do not change the colour of how we paint the map. Are we underestimating the citizen unregulated? Can't he have a selection criterion? Because a person votes on the second Sunday. Other combinations may be considered as the one who took less than 49% is more capable. So we underestimate local society? However, I did not hear about the "tacker". Will there be self-government without resources? Self-government is a beggar, gentlemen. And you want to have her hostage and bondage, not satellite to operate the Athenian-centric model. If we're talking satellite, it's good. If there's no moon, there's no earth with the magnetic field. It is another thing that the municipalities have influence over an Athenian-centered model, but here you want them to be appalled. They're requiring. Where is the money promised by governments from traffic charges so that the municipalities can afford it? Where's the infamous beer tax you promised in self-government? I say this because 'Accessive bear does not dance'. But the central power of each individual either with the enhanced analogue or with the simple analogue, which is certainly more democratic, more representative and more participatory, fears that any of the mayor makes a feud in an area, rises up and down, is not dependent on the parties and will have an economic and social power. That's what's afraid of the main scene. So it wants local government - heterogeneously to have her incubator, to have her a greenhouse so she can control her. How will he control her? With the commissioner. Pile the invoices to the municipalities to pay the market if the Commissioner does not approve them. But "the complaints to the mayor," the people say. It's no accident. Around the face of the mayor there is a closeness, a code and a channel of communication with local communities. You can't tell him, as an Athenian model, who will rule him with the ultimate purpose of party time. Once the Mayor of Drama remembers - and still a mayor in Greece who escapes me - Mr.Jimas, who I think is "blue" man, neo-democrat, went to give some money to vulnerable groups and, in particular, to multiple families. They took him head. "Who are you to implement social and economic policy? This is our responsibility," the Athenian model tells him. So what do we want? A heterodical command to control it. Don't underestimate local communities. You have a small group of people who are romantics, visionaries for the city. They will not vote for national policy or put their ideological lead on proclaiming a mayor of any party. They want a visionary mayor who'll inspire. And then, they suggest that for highways or for landslide or for bicycles...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u236	Finish it, Mr. Booba.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u237	I shall conclude, Mr President. Is it possible for the mayor not to agree? Forty-five cents will run, direct assignments will run, break-ups will run because this is self-government and not according to Europe's standards as in neighbouring Italy. I cannot today have the Mayor Amphipolis, from where I come, Mr Frastanlis begging and not being heard about the archaeological site of Amphipolis belonging to his own property. It is not possible for the region to have the hereditary regional government and decentralised ones. Actually, what's going on? The decentralised, Mr President, controls the heresy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u238	Mr. Booba, you've been closed for ten minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u239	...(not heard) on the regional council goes to decentralized for spatial planning and gets signature. Thank you very much for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u240	Thank you, Mr. Booba. Mr. George Logiadis from Mera25 has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u241	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will begin with what should have taken precedence in today's draft law, which has not been done: The debate and analysis on the more general reforms that are necessary and necessary in order to substantially upgrade local selfgovernment and to have a primary, social, developmental and productive role that citizens need. Such issues are, for example, the separation of competences, strengthening and upgrading local government, the existence of excellent technical and legal services with law-makers specialising in administrative law, their financial self-sufficiency. Very recently, the Institute of Local Government and the Central Association of Municipalities of Greece organised an online conference on local government. The Minister for Development and Investment said, among other things, that the Development Plans Management Unit, the SCU, was given technical support for the training of studies in municipalities that do not have their own organised technical services. It also announced that the staffing problems created in the municipalities would be solved in June and that the staffing process with engineers will be progressed mainly in small and medium-sized municipalities, and that additional staff will also be made through the ADP. Thus, these municipalities will be able to provide staff with four to six persons in specialties aimed at new investment tools. Let us remember and stress, however, that this Development Fund Management Unit, a company in the wider public sector under the supervision of the Ministry of Development and Investment, has been established since 1996. At that time, the CTE recruited a specialist scientific staff with specialization and expertise in the management and monitoring of Community programmes. It was therefore founded twenty-five years ago, but nonetheless with the latest available figures -8-10-2019 - the absorption of the NRP amounts to only 25.5% of the total budget. This rate is extremely low, so that our country is in the 20th first place among the twenty-eight countries - members of the European Union. Is that the effectiveness and administrativeity of the system? Give you money and you can't absorb it over time? And all this is independent of the current electoral system. "What you had Yannis (with two N) what I've always had." One of the small, mountainous, remote municipalities leaves the people who work in these municipalities and communities, the most valuable people and move elsewhere. Why? Because it is impossible to develop them, to make proper use of them, and the possibilities they have there, but also the lack of infrastructure in these municipalities that are effectively persecuting them. And what's the result? The shrinking of the small communities, the remote and mountainous municipalities and our small islands. Half of Greece has emigrated to Athens. The very large municipalities grow longer and the small ones get deceived and suffer. The desolation of the countryside and infertileness dominate. Destructive national policy. The President of the CEDEFOP at the same online conference highlighted the continued lack of technical assistance to the municipalities. The Secretary-General of the European Committee of the Regions and the Greek Committee of the Regions also stressed that self-government cannot go on a split. And what does the government do? Instead of looking at these problems of local societies, it simply changes the electoral laws. There are many municipalities with no biological cleansing yet, in par excellence areas and streets, water and infrastructure there are no road signs of vandalized road signs, tree branches in front of them, which makes drivers difficult. Simple as that. The self-evident, the basics do not exist, because there is no real and real political will. To do this needs to change the way of administration. As the wise people say 'the fish from the head smells'. We must finally make a clear division of powers. No one is doing so over time, because personal interests are being served and this is spread from the central political scene to the regions, the municipalities and the communities. This partition and partitioning of society must not become a thing in the cell of society, in its core, in the local society. The communities are the core of democracy, and if she loses the core, there is a catastrophic social explosion, which we already experience with all that we have been living for so many years. Instead of local self-government, we have complex political tactics and offense by the citizen. There must be maximum social consensus away from political games, purposes, tactics and party lines. A proposal could, in my opinion, be a single list, with all candidate mayors and a single list of all candidate municipal councillors, without combinations, without divisions, without political settlements and without separating and fighting members, even of the same family. On the first Sunday, municipal councillors and second Sunday the mayor would be elected if he hadn't raised 50% plus 1 from the first Sunday. For us, Mer25, today's draft law creates anti-democratic interventions in local government, abolishing simple analogues, giving to the one who took 43% of the votes plus 1.60% of municipal councillors, while excluding those who did not receive 3%, while the entire developed world sees partnership as the basis for healthy society. Another problem is Article 15, where there is an excessive increase in the paradoxes of the participatory process. It makes it easier for rich people to take part in the elections. Further limiting the participation in municipal elections is achieved by this draft law by prohibiting the participation of individual candidates or combinations that do not have an equal number of candidates with the council seats, which in some municipalities are large. In closing, we are also proposing the creation of councils from elected and confiscated citizens in municipal and regional councils as direct - democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u242	Thank you, Mr. Loyadis. Mr Ioannis Burnus has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u243	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the title of this bill should be "The New Democracy has an allergy to local democracy". In any case, one wonders what the motives of the Minister of the Interior are to return to the legislative initiatives of his predecessor, to worsen them to strictness and undemocraticity. Here we have another intervention by Mr Voridis with the seal of retrogradeity and authoritarianism, with the well-known and boring pretexts of the New Democracy of Mitsotakis, the so-called normality and so-called rulership. These are pretexts simply referring to the governance of the self-government parties in the New Democracy, so that they can with minorities run without giving an account and the regularity of the old self-government model of the right, where minority, in society, we are making sure that they are allowed to operate uncontrollably. Obviously, you did not mind consulting the parties involved and improving existing legislation, and arbitrary changes had already been made, which changed the electoral result by transferring responsibilities to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. You are setting up single-faced bodies with a relative majority, but with absolute sovereignty in the collective bodies of government. What is the reason for strong local governments? Is the mayors going through memorials? Local problems require wider consensus and polarisations are harmful, especially in cities and villages. Your stimulus is to give free to local rulers for interest service without the annoying control of municipal and regional consultants, who always know in local communities what is going on and what pursuits there are. You want the mayors and the district councillors to take a walk. It is not only the prediction of over-optimism, but also the 3% threshold for combinations. Analogous systems are provided for in all developed European countries, ensuring the genuine representation of each minority. Why are they doing this? They do it just to capture local collectives and movements in local government, to express groups of citizens who are interested in local issues, without being linked to specific parties. They do so in order to find more voices in the self-government bodies and finally to reward the public's interest in public, to justify acting on the problems of communities. It's an incentive for more democracy. The New Democracy punishes all these efforts. It orders that collectives and combinations be silenced by sensitive citizens who want to operate autonomously. A classic method, of course, for over-conservative governance and deprivation of democracy. Since you're securing overqualifications for mayors, what do you mind if there are more voices in the councils? Which mayor ordered this prediction because they even bother him to exist and to hear small orders? In the same spirit, you are abolishing, in Article 15, the autonomy of the communities by abolishing the third ballot, the autonomous lists and limiting the number of local councillors, excluding from the elections many of our coordinators who want to offer to their villages and towns, without matching the extra-ordinary or personal pursuits of the candidate mayors. We had experienced an self-government spring in the province. We had gladly seen the emergence of self-government executives in small communities and especially the involvement of young people with the common. Young, women and men with an appetite for activity, independent of parties, have been able to emerge in their community without being dependent on the mayor. You are suppressing this blossom of local politics because it has ruined your balances and weakened the party control of your people in the province. You can barely force candidates for community councils to fall down on the mayor's lists so that they can take votes in the combination of the candidate's mayor. You're turning their communities and councils into mayor's surveillance. Our fellow citizens, both old and young of the local authorities of the Community, are being sidelined, not least with regard to the abandonment of the villages, since the services offered to their apologies will be missed. What is the reason for reducing the number of municipal and regional consultants? There's not even the pretext of their remuneration, as long as they're unpaid. Your motive is to suppress pluralism and control it more closely. Fewer consultants means more control than party or other interests, it means sub-representation of citizens. This is the oligarchy you have for democracy. For you, the fewer people deal with commons, the better. What kind of need for local self-government are you finally serving by such distortions and distortions of the popular verdict? The aim of the Minister and the Government is authoritarian rule without transparency, without distractions from progressive factions and party uncontrolled combinations and advisors. Democracy scares them. Together with the local communities of Lesvos and Lemnos and the whole of Greece, we will fight for powerful and autonomous communities, for the simple analogue, the authentic expression of citizens' will in local government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u244	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Gocas has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u245	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, a truly modern state - and not the definite state of government, which is simply centralised and through the intense communication effort, is attempting to be projected as a final one - is, first of all, characterised by its decentralised functions. Its decentralised functions are dominated by the institutions of local government, municipalities and regions. These institutions must be strong and independent with functions, responsibilities and resources to enable them to respond to their key role, only through strong self-government can be served. That is to say, for local and regional development, but also for the high quality of services that citizens deserve, which is not being done today, as self-government does not participate in the planning and planning of development funds, such as the Recovery Fund. For our part, this logic and perception, these policies for local government as an exception have been supported over time with the PASOK governments and today with the Change Movement. All major reforms have been made by the PASOK governments since 1982 and then reaching the prefecture of prefecture in 1994, the "Kappostria" in 1998 and the "Kalikratis" in 2010. Only the PASOK has passed reforms that changed the landscape and have given space and motivation to persons and social forces to work for the good of their country through the institutional frameworks that gave potential and perspective. New Democracy has never believed in the institution of local government, but also all other forces have voted against these reforms. The governments that followed both SYRIZA after 2015 and the New Democracy after 2019, but also since 2006 with the Pavlopoulou Law and 42% were serving micro-party logic and political purposes where everyone in the way undermined and undermined the institution. It is not the previous government and the current government that are concerned with the electoral system alone, rather than with dialogue on the functioning of the institutions, competences, funding, strengthening of local government. Where is a serious evaluation of the 'CALL'? Where is the proposal of local government itself? Is representativeness guaranteed, but also the possibility of a municipality being effectively run, a region and through what electoral law? Debates of the European Parliament We pointed out the problems of the SYRIZA electoral law of "KLITHEN", a paralysing system for the operation of municipalities and regions. Is it possible for a mayor of 50% plus one to perform his duties with 20% of the members of a municipal council since his resignation? Contrary to the first legislation on local government, New Democracy brought its first aboriginal provision in which, by going to the other end, it removed the essential powers from the municipal councils, which weakened and assigned them to the mayors and economic committees. SYRIZA’s allegedly simple analogue gave the push to the New Democracy. Today we have another piece of legislation out of self-government logic, once again the electoral system. It is a piece of legislation that does not respect its representative system, i.e. local communities themselves. The rapporteur for the Change Movement, Mrs Liikoulis, has been placed in detail, documented and thoroughly documented, both in committee and in plenary on all issues, as has our Parliamentary representative Mr Scandalidis and finally our President, Mrs Gennimatas, in her speech today. I'm going to stand on a few points. It has been stressed, but I would like to repeat it, because we disagree. Each institution should have democratic legitimacy for its powers, since it will have an absolute majority. Therefore, the mayor as a single representative should have the majority of his powers given, and this only results with 50% plus one vote. Such legitimacy must also have the powers it exercises following decisions of the City Council where there must be a similar majority there. It is planned to elect the mayor from the first Sunday to 43% plus one vote, and then the combination takes three fifths of the majority of the board. It is contradictory and obviously politically inappropriate to have this disparity. We disagree with any percentage of less than 50% plus one vote from the first Sunday that gives any candidate the direct election. As long as it was not just proportional to what SYRIZA introduced, so does not serve representativeness and this legislation. We also disagree with the reduction of elected representatives in the Community, municipal and regional councils. Adequate representation of the people is needed. The proper functioning of municipal and regional councils is essential to ensure that citizens are involved, dialogue and pluralism, but also to enable them to exercise their responsibilities by adequacy of the bodies which exist and operate at the same time. We see a weakening, such as the abolition of the regulation on a number of crosses set by the electorate, the anticipation of an increase of up to 150%, but also the excessive increase in the paradoxes at the same time as a provision for a reduction in the hereditary. All of these combined operations are dissuasively dissuasive by preventing many to participate. This does not make it easier for the essential and worthwhile choice to dominate the impressions. It also abolishes the compulsory crusade of candidates from the constituency on the electoral lists of which the public for municipal councils is registered, which is at the expense of the citizens' proper representation and contrary to the provisions of the 'CALICATORI'. As far as the president's election process is concerned in local communities, which has been a great deal of talk, the government has once again confirmed that it is moving without a plan and is content with the communication project to cover its failures and its inability to legislate effectively an integrated institutional framework. We do not agree with anything that can alter the will of a local society in terms of both sides, but also the assessment of individuals. And there remains the question of the appointment of the president of the local council to communities of over three hundred inhabitants, and there are still issues for the president in local communities of less than three hundred inhabitants, beyond the continuous changes brought by the Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, in the form of today's bill, it runs counter to the need for a substantial strengthening of the institution of local government through a clear framework of operation with powers, first and foremost, a representative, but also an operational electoral system, then, without contradictions and without all kinds of purposes, so as to serve decentralisation and regional development, which is an objective and a condition for development for our country, and that is why we are voting against. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u246	Thank you too, Mr. Goka. The speaker's cycle is completed. I will now give the floor to the Minister for the Interior and then to those of the rapporteurs who want to have the three-minute seconds will have it. And, of course, the Minister will answer later. Listen to see, all the rapporteurs have exhausted your time and your dentistry, but in any case there will be a tolerance. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u247	Thank you, Mr President. I would first like to thank all Members for their participation. It was a great debate, perhaps the one with the greatest participation we have had in recent years. This is perhaps also an indication of a return to normality after the pandemic restrictions and therefore this extended dialogue is always important and positive in Parliament. Now I would like to say the following. The work of the Ministry of Interior continues and continues intensively. It has been tabled and will begin tomorrow's debate on our draft law on teleworking in the public sector in the committee concerned. I therefore think that we are unfolding an overall plan for reform in public administration. I think we will have the opportunity, when we present it now and in a comprehensive strategic form in the Internal Affairs Committee, to discuss more generally how all these actions are being implemented. However, this bill is part of this general philosophy, which defends the Ministry of Interior for the reconstruction and reform of public administration. Part of the public administration, obviously part of it, is self-government. What has made the bill necessary? You know here I could say a phrase and stop. It is the fact that we have made a commitment in the run-up to the election that we will do so. We had made this commitment. It is our commitment to which we have informed and requested the approval of the Greek people. We have received approval from the Greek people and we have created a corresponding obligation. That alone, therefore, is the fact that in such a clear way that we said that we would abolish the simple analogue to the local government agencies, it would be enough to provide adequate legalisation, because the people themselves considered this to be the case. It is not an action that we have encountered or is more interoperable or more management. It was a clear political position. Nevertheless, what was it that gave birth to necessity beyond our commitment? The malfunction. And here in SYRIZA you need to put yourself on this issue a little bit. Because, in my opinion, that is what creates a very difficult political position for SYRIZA. You voted for the simple analogue, as you voted for it, whatever that is. You supported her theoretically. We had extensive discussions on this issue before you voted on it in Parliament. We had expressed our disagreement and all the things we are discussing now had been discussed at that time. It is like repeating this debate. There is one difference, there is its application. I heard SYRIZA say: "But, you know, you did not do justice to her simple analogue, because you did not let her evolve, to see if she could finally work." Why did SYRIZA say we didn't let her evolve? Because we have removed powers from the municipal council, we have transferred them to the Economic Commission, so it has not been built - that is the argument - the culture of cooperation. When I was talking at that time, because I went up to the debate at that time, I said the following. What you are saying about building a culture of partnership seems to be forgetting that we are talking about living administrative agencies, organisations that must make decisions, which, if they do not take decisions, have direct consequences for citizens. Building a culture of partnership can take us a decade to build it, in the meantime what exactly will be done while building it? That is why I said that in the end this is an ideological removal, which will have an extremely adverse effect, not on municipal and regional rulers, because they hold their office and positions, but mainly on the part of the people in charge, on the part of the citizens. They're the ones who're going to suffer this malfunction. So you said it wasn't built, that we didn't let us see how this was going to be built. Let me inform you that two years later, we are even being asked by the municipal authorities, the municipal authorities to take more responsibility from the municipal and regional councils, why two years later, this culture of cooperation - what they are to work together now - does not exist? Have you heard of paralyzing municipal councils, which we have to extend, because they do not follow deadlines, to which their plans, their budgets, their expenditures, why do they not deprive the municipal councils? So when will this famous partnership culture be built? When will it be? Are we going to wait? What are we gonna wait for? Destroy the municipalities? Are we going to wait until the regional development programmes are put in place? Are we going to wait until the regions are shredded while we look at whether the co-operation cultures are being built? So here you must answer, and because you have a few self-government officers, but you have self-government, ask them to tell you what is going on in this. So this is what makes the bill necessary, but I hear you two days ago squatting and saying heavy things. You say it's undemocratic. What is undemocratic? Are the systems of an enhanced majority you say they are undemocratic? The United Kingdom, which has the hardest majority system that exists, everywhere one-sided and which is the home of parliamentism, does not have democracy and do you have in SYRIZA? What are you talking about? The majority systems, the electoral systems in general, are systems which actually have to do with political traditions, they have to do with political history, they have to do with how they choose to produce their political results and weigh this political result. So France doesn't have a democracy? He's got an enhanced majority. Too many countries that have an enhanced majority do not have a democracy? What you've found and given us such reproach? Tell me you don't like the system, you don't like the system. Can we hear any arguments? Let's hear arguments. I didn't tell you no. How did you pay him back? I think we are all interested in the proper and proper functioning of the culture. We need this to concern ourselves. What do citizens think of democracy from a bad result at administrative level, an administrative paralysis, a political arrhythmia? What do you think? Because at the end of the day the citizen is in his daily life, in his agony, in his problem, in all the issues he has to resolve. What does he demand from his political leadership, from his political system, with whatever mechanism it has? He's asking for a good political result. We are defending democracy as the best citizen, because it is what produces the best result. So, if you adopt an electoral system which leads to paralysis, is this not a matter for you of what consequences it brings for the functioning of democracy itself, for the relationship between democracy and the political system with the citizen? Don't you deceive her? You don't put her in jeopardy? When they no longer work, when people see teams, teams, factions, fait accomplices cannot agree with each other, they cannot find harmony, they cannot build a policy that will result, only in transactions, interests and dailys of such partnerships, which will be dispersed occasionally, what image do they give? So, here you need to be restrained. That is what I would expect, instead of a lyric defence of a system which has shown that it does not bring any administrative products, but that is more than that, it also creates malfunctions proven. And in any case, even if you do not change your mind, it is not possible to unleash cords to others who see and actually come up with the evil you have done. Because that's what we're doing today, resurrecting the evil you've done. So everyone should be, if you like, calmer, more placed on the designations of a proposal which, in any case, has been tested and, incidentally, on its basic characteristics or on some of its characteristics, you have maintained it. I come to what we're doing now. What are we doing? We keep the two rounds - so one thing is that - and what is changing is first how many seats the combination winner gets. From there, when you gave him what he was responsible for in the simple analogy, we give him a premium and indeed get three fifths of the seats of the municipal and regional council. Are we giving something too much? That's a good explanation for your own Member here. For saying that with 39%, let's say, the Greek Parliament has about 52% of the seats, if you did make a ratio, indeed if someone took 43%, it would get there close. Secondly, let me say that this is not very important. Do you know why? Because the numbers in municipal and regional councils are not so large, especially in municipality, to the vast majority. I will ask you: if you accept the majority principle, that is, you accept that someone who wins gets more than 50% - that is the majority principle - has to get something over 50% - the 60% distinction to 55%, for example, at the level of municipal council seats is about one seat. That is what we are talking about, one seat on the top - one seat down on the thirty-three-member municipal councils. So it doesn't matter. So, in fact, the three fifths we are putting are indeed something that ensures the majority of the relatively qualified majority combination or the one that defeated the second round. This also ensures governance and effective governance, if you like. However, Mr Raguss - we discussed this a little earlier - and he says 'yes, okay, but why don't you stop it, go to 50%+1'. I mean, give these three fifths, but 50%+1, don't give it to 43%. Yes, sir! Can I ask you something? Why do you think it's fairer and fairer to get a candidate 49% in the first round and then another candidate wins 51% in the second round? Why does this look more representative as a result of the result of the first round? So let's say they're going down ten municipal classes. The first municipality party gets 49%, the second takes 24%, and the other eight get something down there, share percentages. They rally in the second round with the one who took 24%, they all gather together and win in the second round the one who took 49%. Why is this more representative of the people's will? In the second round where we disappeared everyone else, we don't have a picture of society. Society disappeared in the second round. We've got two left. Yeah, but that's not the imprint of real correlations. This is a removal, it is a solution within the electoral system. Why did you remove the other candidates? The answer is, therefore, that we want the second round, because we really want to have enhanced - it says - legitimacy. Yes, sir. But when? When we don't have enough. Why is 43% not enough? Why is 43% enough to make a Prime Minister, but is 43% not enough to make a mayor? Why? Why do you not deserve 50%+1 to be elected Prime Minister? In any case, objectively - I think - a crisis more critically handled by the Prime Minister by the mayor. Why do you accept the reduced legitimacy, if it is, of the Prime Minister's 43% or 39%? We have prime ministers with even lower rates. Why do you accept this legitimacy, but you have to go to the second round - that's what you say - and the one who took 49% can already lose? Don't think that's self-evident here. This is within the framework of the operation of the Greek system. It is an electoral system which introduces the two rounds, without necessarily having to deceive and well there must be two rounds of election. No, it's not the two rounds at all. The two rounds exist precisely because they make an argument for additional legalisation when it is missing. Why is 43% missing? That's the question. The answer is not that 'why he didn't get 50%+1'. The answer is not that because - I repeat - two political forces do not participate in the elections. So no self-evident thing seems to me to be your argument. I have heard a further criticism of why we are putting the 3% limit and that the 3% limit we have put into Greece, I understand, because we had some kind of national feasibility. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Mr. President, can I have some more time?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u248	You're welcome, Minister. Anyway, you haven't made any use of your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u249	Thank you very much. So I heard that it's an argument of national order etc. The walls, entry limits, are there only in Greece? Aren't there somewhere else? Does Germany have an entry limit? Does France have an entry limit?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u250	It's just proportional.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u251	Yeah. So in many countries there are entry limits. The entry limit has nothing to do with whether I like A or B. There is one assumption that only political forces beyond a certain critical mass, agreed by the electorate, need to be represented at the level of political forces. Why? Because this is considered to be a worthy reason for representation, it is considered that it is indeed expressing a political signal in society, which must be expressed and that we should not go to an absolutely proportionate application here, where because we are three hundred people with 0.3% could have a Member. Because it is not considered that 0.3% is capable and sufficient and critical mass of representation. That's the philosophy of the entry limit. And also because it leaves full opportunity for partnerships outside it, it creates the obligation to consult, so that the critical mass of voters can be shaped every time. And somehow that's how it's shaped. So I heard the argument that 'why can't it be a one-thematic thing'? That is what you have brought in as an example. I'm not saying if it's going to be one-thematic or multi-thematic. I'm saying he's got to get a minimum. If, for example, there is a 3% interest in dealing with pet animals and wants to deal only with pet animals, this 3% will be represented. But if it is 0.3%, no, that will not be represented. That is the issue, it has nothing to do with this, but it has nothing to do with it, as to whether it has been recorded in existence and constituted as a political para-tax force within society. That's the question. And yet it is not to'stick off the clouds'. In the parliamentary elections we have it and elsewhere there is. What else do we do? We are reducing municipal and regional councillors and at the same time increasing the opportunity for candidates to participate. If you put those two together, what are they doing? They're doing the ballots more competitively. Right?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u252	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u253	Sure. Is competition a good thing? The answer is 'yes'. Better candidates come out. It is a better level of electoral competition. So what do we have in this way? We actually have a strengthening of the human potential that is forming our own self-government. That's the direction. So you increase quality, so you improve human resources: More people who participate, without being mandatory, because we do not make it mandatory for combinations 150%. If they want to, they don't have 150%. They put the minimum required, the minimum number. So we don't have that kind of thing. And since there is no and is not mandatory, a mayor's candidate, a candidate for a regional mayor, may want to take advantage of this possibility by strengthening and creating a strong competitive ballot. Why do we mind that? Why don't you like it? Because it seems to me that this is in the direction of empowerment and participation. I have also heard too much about community issues, they have been very busy. First of all, let's say what we did and whether we heard the communities. From an initial plan in five hundred we returned to three hundred. From a president who was a representative, he was re-chaired. We have not touched otherwise - we had said to abolish them - the local councils in the capital cities. We're keeping them. Therefore, we have heard a great deal about the people of the communities. What haven't we heard of them in? We haven't heard of them in the gallery. Why haven't we heard of them? I explained. Because we find absolutely no need to cultivate a species, let me say pseudo-arm, which is not true and is not true in our philosophy, and I hope it is not in anyone's philosophy. And yet, it should not be within the philosophy of Mr. Ragosissis, who has recommended "KALIKARATIS" and therefore, this is the moment of transition to larger municipal units and entities and the whole philosophy, as Mr. Raguss explained at the time, and as I objected to at that time, it was precisely the existence of a new unity and structure. So, then, the call why? What else have we changed? We have maintained that in communities under three hundred the one who is the first to elect will be elected. We kept that the way it was. And in communities over three hundred - because I heard a lot of noise - what exactly have we changed? What have we changed? Where has the intervention been made? Since the question of the president is not regulated by this law. It is regulated by other provisions. Have we changed these provisions? Oh, no. They are therefore maintained. He's not in the law. So there is too much noise about an issue that has not actually been regulated. What is changing and to which we will insist is the abolition of the ballot and I have explained why. So this is a bill that actually comes to take off issues that have been identified. And I'm telling you, you have to answer whether your arrangement was so good. Why are those who are most interested in having a good administrative effect not hug it? Mayors are interested in having a good administrative effect. Why? To be re-elected. To have good relationships with their citizens. The district managers are interested in the administrative result. Why didn't they hug her? Why is everyone saying no? So I think this concludes a very clear debate and I would say that the only thing left in the blue of this debate - because otherwise the disagreements are old and registered - are the claims of anti-democraticism for the choice of a electoral system, which in the end is an enhanced majority system. There are many systems of enhanced majority voting around the world. Can I not imagine denying that there is a democracy in which these systems are implemented? This will be a very bizarre view. I should like to say here, Mr President, that I am accepting an amendment tabled which extends the deadline for the activation of the obligations arising under the Law of the Sea on seafarers' matters. I do this because some municipalities are not yet ready and need more time. At the same time, however, we remain in force the conventions which have already been concluded so that there is no disturbance for those who have already been prepared. It is therefore the amendment tabled late, but it comes to meet this urgent need, from my colleagues Mr Brutsi and Mr Cappato. In order to be very fair, however, Mr Kegeroglu has raised this issue, other colleagues have put it. So we're accepting it. I am tabling the amendment and the relevant legislative improvement for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for the Interior, Mr Mavroudis Voridis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[At this point, the Minister for the Interior, Mr Mavroudis Voridis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned legislative improvement, which reads as follows:]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[To enter page 359]] Let me briefly address the issues of the other amendment that I think has also been involved. I leave the conversation about who owns the intellectual property and if SYRIZA filed it first or the KINAL first, whether it was the same or something else. I'm leaving this conversation. I do not think it is important at this stage. I think that's a deplorable conversation. I only keep the deal. Just one observation to be okay with our legal systems. This is an intervention in the electoral law, Presidential Decree 26. The question of the incidental penalty, namely the deprivation of civil rights as an incidental penalty imposed by the criminal court and something that has been removed from the review of the Criminal Code, in my opinion remains a very wrong arrangement, among the many wrong arrangements for the revision of the Criminal Code made by the SYRIZA. You're gonna tell me, why is that so? The answer is why it must not only be administrative. Why should it not be of an administrative nature alone? Because tomorrow morning there is a government that thinks differently and therefore lifts ratification. The administrative sanction is an administrative regulation, it's not even a sanction here. We're not even talking about an administrative penalty. We're talking about a setup. Therefore, in reality, a different approach could bring the matter up differently, while the concept of deprivation of civil rights as an incidental penalty is something imposed by the court and linked to the assessment of the act, is individualised and valid at this point. So, in my opinion, the legislator has made a mistake, between - and I say again - in many mistakes and I hope that at some point the Justice Ministry will see this before. Now, what are we doing here? Because I don't want to get confused, we really don't have a political right here. That's clear. We don't have a political right. Maybe I wanted to be a political right. A political right cannot be denied. Why? Because he needs irrevocable criminal conviction. So that's clear. What are we doing? We are, however, laying down rules on which parties can, and what combinations can be declared. That is the main restriction. So when parties or combinations are convicted of such offences, they cannot be proclaimed. And if they insist on it, there are also restrictions, so they cannot be financed and can't be broadcast TV. What are the objections one can hear here? You know, you don't have an irrevocable conviction, because you only do it with finality. The answer is, however, that there is a deep contradiction at the moment in the legal order, on the one hand, to have courts that have told people who have been politically leader or legal representative or director that they have in fact managed a criminal organisation and, on the other hand, to continue to play the political leaders. So this is something which obviously needs to be harmonized, the whole of our legal order, the Greek legal order, with our administrative legal order. There can't be that deep contradiction, and that's what we're doing right now. I have heard an objection from the JRC that we are intervening in this way, if I have correctly understood the objection, within the choices of the parties, and that this opens up a ferry. Do I understand your objection correctly? Right? I do not know - I have not heard it - if you also share this objection, you may tell us later. Look at something. This is where I think you should think about it again. Why? Because the order is clear. He's talking about limiting those who have been definitively found guilty and punished by severance sentences, not a delusion, so not with any kind of low-intensive punishment. So we are talking about solitude sentences. Listen to the chapters and tell me what it is that you are worried about: Insulting the democratic culture, the ultimate betrayal and torture, these are the two malicious provisions there. Insulting the country's territorial integrity, insulting the international peace, defence capacity of the country, state secrets - I stress - a felony. Crimes against other states, crimes against state and other institutions. I mean, in here is bribery, it's bribery. Crimes against the electorate, crimes against state power and public order. Two of these are felony, criminal organisations and terrorist organisations. So I come and ask: How do we open the ferry with this? So, in your own mind, will we have a man who has been convicted of this, will he have in this way offended the orderly state, democracy, the integrity of the country, and yet we will continue to say that he may be the leader of a party to the election and that there is no problem? And if we say it can't be, are we interfering with the party's insides? But the game is clean, I can't do anything else. It is clear both offences and penalties. I therefore believe that the opposite position on the part of the Communist Party needs - if you are to vote against it - additional arguments. However, the argument that we are intervening within the parties is not enough. This is not an internal intervention of the parties. This is how we make rules so that people who have set up criminal organisations can not be the leaders of political parties and participate in the elections and ask for votes. It can't be done. And be careful with this quality. Because in the capacity of the candidate we can do so. I have heard a thought from Mr Kastanidis that we should extend the ban. In my opinion, the extension of the ban is inconsistent - I say this directly, it is my view and that is why we have not put it - in Article 29 and the provision will therefore fall if we do so. That's what I think. However, because I have heard a second thought from Mr Kastanidis, because there is indeed a provision within our Constitution that says that there is an obligation for the parties to work to promote the democratic culture and serve democratic values. So I heard a thought from Mr Kastanidis that it might be possible to consider whether we would be interested in energising this provision of the Constitution. At the moment, this is unregulated. That surely takes us somewhere else. It takes us out of the field of criminal law and takes us to a crisis - which I am clear that the only way I could think about it would be a judicial crisis, that in other countries there is, there is a judicial crisis on these issues - which would determine whether a political party actually works in this way. If - I express personal views now, I am not speaking as Minister, it is not something that we have discussed, I react to a thought by one of my colleagues in this House - perhaps there were such arrangements that we might have saved a lot of what we have been through all this time with phenomena. I would like to clarify and close my position on this matter. For me it is very important that there is a clear placement. Precisely because we have not taken a position - I speak as a state, as a coordinate state, against the possibility of the Constitution - and because there has been no such arrangement that has laid down such rules and which is judged to be judicially, in fact the placement we are now making is a position linked to criminal offences. Obviously, Golden Dawn is a neo-nazi organization, but what puts it in prison is not that it is a neo-nazi organization. Her criminal acts put it in place. And what we are legislating today is not that we are legislating for the neonazis. We legislate it for those who have done and have been convicted of forming and addressing criminal organisation. They have this identity, obviously, that's clear. It is also obvious that this identity is detestable and completely condemnable. We all know and have lived their behaviors in here. But - I stress it - we are now legislating on the basis of a criminal decision. We are lawful because they are convicted and sentenced for a criminal offence, for a felony, for the establishment and address of a criminal organisation. The other point which - I say again - may be open to the thoughts of Mr Kastanidis or even he may not open up if the parties do not want it, because I think that is a wider debate indeed and want more debate. So this is another issue. But now what we are doing is that we are now responding to and unifying what was initiated by the criminal court ruling. Thank you very much and I look forward to that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u254	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u255	Mr President, the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u256	Mr. Ragosi is very interesting. This bill is very interesting. You will be given time to say. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a statement to this House. The Ministers of State, Finance, Development and Investment, Foreign, Labour and Social Affairs, Health, Justice, Home Affairs, as well as the Deputy Ministers of Finance, Foreign Affairs and Health submitted on 2-6-2021 a draft law of the Ministry of Digital Governance: Clear it from 30-5-2021 an act of legislative content "Institution, content and procedure for the adoption of Digital Certificate COVID 19" (A'87) and more specific guarantees for the protection of personal data". I will give the floor to the rapporteurs and to the parliamentary representatives the opportunity to speak next. We're starting in reverse again. Mrs. Bakadima will not use. Mr. Hetas who has changed with Mr. Mylonakis will not use. I am not going to keep the third minute I said in view of the fact that the Minister too has exceeded the time. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u257	Mr President, throughout the two days there has been an effort by the New Democracy, the SYRIZA and the Change Movement to indulge in a crisis of hypocrisy, disorientation of the people and the overthrowing of the real truth about the real reactionary, undemocratic methods of local administration. Under the pretext of SYRIZA's electoral law, who continues to baptize him as a mere analogue while he knows that it is not simple analogue with New Democracy also conveniently continues to characterise SYRIZA's law as a mere analogue, attempts with this anti-democratic, reactionary and majority electoral system essentially to fly out of municipal and regional councils every radical voice. It is ridiculous, it is clear that the Minister's argument which has just been heard that up to 3% is not a critical mass to be represented on the municipality or regional council. And who decides whether it's a critical mass or not? Who judges it, the law, the government? If, for example, the voters are two hundred thousand, the 3% limit, why is it a critical mass, and why is the ninety-nine thousand not a critical mass? Tell me. So this is a confusing, immoral system, which creates false majorities and is being used to manipulate people's consciences with extortionist dilemmas, the well-known extortionist dilemmas, which have been posed for years by all governments, the theory of lost votes - we know all that - simply proportionally, without having deceiving that it can solve the problems of the people, especially in such a exploiting system? Just proportional, though, what does it mean? The election rate should also be expressed as a percentage of seats. Isn't that the honorable thing? Isn't that moral? But you don't, and SYRIZA didn't even attempt it, and that's exactly why it was stinky the simple analogue he did. However, you know, because it was heard that 80% of the decisions on municipal and regional councils were shared, of your comments, so to be honest. And that's what it was. But where is it assumed that because 80% of decisions are positive, is it acceptable? Because it is a question of what kind of decisions they were. What kind of decisions were those on municipal and regional councils? Did they force the vote on the vote? Did they undo the decorative role of regional and municipal councils? Did they bring back resources on the basis of the powers taken by the municipalities and regions? Did it stop carving, fees and taxes on the public? Did public-private partnerships stop, concession contracts for large capital? Did the business role of self-government cease? No, not at all. Have you ever disagreed on these issues on municipal and regional councils? So, then, you are in a direct relationship, both SYRIZA and the New Democracy and the Movement of Change and other urban parties, and at the same time while you consent to this anti-popular policy "you take your eyes out" here literally, trying to make the mind of the people as if you were addressing indigenous people. And without shame, SYRIZA asks for a "rehabilitation of self-government by the parties". Until SYRIZA went after Max Webber. I heard Mr. Lappa the other day by recruiting Max Webber for the alleged party neutrality of the state, so also of self-government, since it is a state and self-government, forgetting that Max Webber is the State's owner of the monopoly of legal violence. Have you forgotten, gentlemen of SYRIZA, that? What's that? When you think the state is the holder of legal violence, is it not the institutionalised violence of the dictatorship of capital? So here's how you're converging, on the one hand, that New Democracy consents to consensus, but with immortality, with the whip, and SYRIZA with the saliva and carrot. But the hawk himself. It doesn't change politics, since you agree, you agree. Do you not agree with the 'CALL'? Do you not agree with the 'CLISTEN', which is the extension of 'CALL'? Has self-government become more democratic? Did the taxes, the fees, the ravages to the public? No, they got worse, they got worse. To conclude, I would like to raise a matter, Mr President, with the remote meetings of local and regional councils. Will this mockery end with the long-distance meeting of municipal and regional councils? Is this mocking going to stop? In other words, we've opened up tourism, foodism has been opened, it's becoming the poor girl in planes, boats, boats, and I don't know where else, but from a distance the board is meeting. Why? It's humiliating really, it's humiliating, it's undemocratic. But it is obvious that here there is an attempt to sneeze the voice. We cannot live up to budgets, technical programmes, we cannot call on one body to put a problem on the municipal and regional council invoking this, precisely, the act of legislative content. So stop it here and now stop this. In the case of legislation, we do not find anything essential on the basis of the amendments that have been made. Nothing really changes the bill, just some of the CEDEFOP and EIA proposals are accepted. For the ministerial amendments - and to conclude with that, Mr President - we will say 'the present' on 907/88. There is, of course, a positive provision for the cleaning of school units which we would vote on 'yes', but it is the well-known problem in an amendment of five, six, ten articles, and we are forced to do so when half of us agree and the others disagree to take into account the weight of the individual articles and to draw the general conclusion, the attitude we are going to take. We shall vote against Amendment No 988/99, which relates to the arrangements for Agios Kosmas, because the whole process is actually facilitated by the investor. These are arrangements that circumvent parliamentary control for the benefit of the investor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u258	Finish, Mr. Synhonaki, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u259	At 909/90 we will also say 'no' for the other amendment, which concerns the deprivation of civil rights, here our Parliamentary representative will be placed in more detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u260	Thank you, too. The reason for this is the special speaker of the Movement of Change, Mrs. Ligoli.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u261	Mr President, I cannot speak with the mask, I will speak with the Stepma. I've got seven and a half minutes, right?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u262	They're all over it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u263	Listen, there are seven and a half minutes, but all of the rapporteurs are twenty and a half. You've spoken eighteen and a half, but I'm not going to interrupt you. I'm not going to interrupt anyone. I say what time is as a mark, not as a ban. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u264	As long as you tell me, I'll talk. Thank you very much, Mr President. It is a bill, Mr President, important. You are right to comment on it that we are becoming too many times too many, we are not overreacting, Minister. Are we too much time, too much time, though? Look, you've opened a lot of issues and you like to be theoretical many times, to approach these issues. I like these debates very much, as long as there is no comfort in putting our thoughts out here and this is such a time-consuming time, unfortunately, there is not. However, I shall take note, even in phrases, of some things which at least I personally, as a self-government person rather than as a Member, I have to say to you, with respect, of course, in your view. I also heard you in committee, Minister, and I heard you today about the culture of cooperation. I do not know, the word 'cooperation' and the word 'consensual' must cause you. You agree, I see you're moving your head positively. Something you've done, something happened to you? Is she a repulsive? Do you have a psychological issue about how to deal with this issue? I can't reach out to this psychologically. But when we talk about self-government? Because in your government you can say 'I am the government, I have voted - as you have told us many times - that is my programme, the Greek people have voted and I will do so. If he does not like it, he will execute me." Very good. But as far as self-government is concerned, you know, we have different data. Here, what you are saying now, for example, I listened carefully to your example, 24% of a combination you said will take the elections in the first round and the other one will get 49%. And who tells you - you tell us - that the one who took 49% is not legitimate to rule, command, and legalizes the one who gets 24% and goes to the second round and gets 50 so, right?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u265	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u266	We are talking now, you have now said the example. But I don't understand. You know, that's why we can't meet, and honestly it's like having two parallel courses of thought, and that's what I'm telling you with honesty. So you don't see the obvious? Don't you see that the one who gets 24% and gets in the second round to make the majority that he's won society? But he's not alone. We are not talking about a mayor, we are not talking about a party, we are talking about the people. People vote. So it's the world that's going to give him legalization to move on. And if the majority - in your example - of the world decides to give not 49%, but 24%, that is 24%, the second one, is the one who gets the crowds and manages to rule by consensus, yes, it must be, it must be elected. Therefore, your example, Minister, I think that it does not belong to modern times and to what self-government requires. Too many things we have said in the past decades, we have created electoral systems, we have changed, we have reformed. At least you said yesterday that we have the political right to speak at this step, what 'CALICRATES', what reforms in all the systems of public administration and so on. But, really, I can't understand how the New Democracy Government, your Government, your leadership, your Ministry, can't have the culture of consensus in the first place.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u267	Mr President, I need some more time. So, with regard to some other important points on the number of members of the House who have fallen and you said that we will make more competitive lists. We increase the candidates, we get them to 150%, if you want, if you don't want to. You think so? You, Mr. Voridis, are not a man who doesn't know her, you'll let me say it like that, and the election and the self-government street you know her. You want to tell me that with claims he's going to get a ballot that has a certain and small power? What do you want to premium with this? But what's he doing to you, you little boy in the tiles? What you want to premium are the powerful party formations that have a multitude of people who can gather and names and various and first class in every society. And let me tell you the other thing. You said at the end that we would make competitive lists. With the ‘A’, with the ‘B’, with the ‘C’, which will be potential combinations and one is larger, smaller, etc., as long as the term is more competitive, competition will be unfair. That's the first. So you say yes to unfair competition. You say yes to unfair political self-government competition. But you say one more yes, because that is why quality - supposedly - will be the result of the elected ones, because we will have more, so competition will be very great and quality will be better. What's here, Mr. Voridis, Eurovision? What's a song or beauty contest? The most, the richest and the most spread, is the best? The quality people, the scientists, the people of society, the workers, the people from the popular classes, the people from the free profession, the people who are on their way to self-government and who do not have these powers or the wealth to be exposed, the people where to put them? Who do you want to deal with self-government after all? The young children, our children, the ones that are twenty-five and twenty-six and thirty-year-old, the new professionals, or those you don't want? What kind of suitcases are they going to get into this process? In any case, with attitudes and perceptions of things, what ideological burdens will go to serve self-government. So, don't talk about fair competition is an unfair political competition. To conclude, I say this, a word, and our parliamentary representative and our secretary on the amendments have said nothing different from what we have been waiting for, but I will say something that you are doing and you are not saying it, and you are hiding it, even though I have intervened and tried, Mr Minister, to demonstrate to you and the outside of the microphone that there is a problem and you have to correct it and you have not corrected it. So you bring the regulation for the communities and the election of the presidents under three hundred and you regulate it by saying that we take out the independent combination, the first is elected, in any case, in combination with the local community, but what are you doing? In the more than three hundred inhabitants, you say that it is allegedly referred to the 'CALICRATES'. This is a lie, let me not lie, say no truth, because it has been amended five times, and now what we said at 'CALICRATES' and loaded it on Mr Ragosi is not that he is appointed by the president is that he is elected by the local council. That's the truth, to restore the truth. The combination...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u268	Mrs. Litikoli, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u269	Mr President, please have a word. But now what are you doing, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u270	Mrs. Liikali, you have spoken twenty-eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u271	Give me seconds to close my proposal, Mr President, because it is a pity that she will be left alone in the air.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u272	There was tolerance much more.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u273	What you are doing now, however, by referring the last reform to the Government of New Democracy, is the 2019 reform, the president is elected by the combination throughout the municipality. Go out and tell the presidents who are calling us because they have not understood what you are regulating and so get the weight of the regulation you are bringing to Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u274	Thank you, too. Mr. Hatzigiannakis, SYRIZA's special speaker, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u275	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Minister, I will start with the ministerial amendments so that they can be forgotten. I will start with my fellow Members' amendment, I told you and when you brought them to us, that we are in agreement, it is in the positive direction. For the ministers, the first, the General Number 907 and the Special Representative 88, we will vote'residents' precisely for the same reason as the representative of the Communist Party of Greece. Unfortunately, we have the problem of what we have talked about a kilowatt and need to be solved. The amendment comes, it has positive elements that we want to vote on, in particular as regards the extension of school cleaners that are really right to regulate and we want to vote on it, but on the very top, on the cleanliness service of eFCA why do you not do the same? In other words, you should extend the existing conventions and simply leave - not you - the Ministry which is accelerating this amendment - and we now have to accept positive amendments which we would like to vote on for the same reasons, so that I do not go far. Many colleagues have spoken of 908 from too many parties. 908 is for St. Kosmas. We have no objection to various provisions which really solve existing problems, but paragraph 7 comes, and we believe that this amendment should not be an amendment, we should come to the committees to see what problems it is going to solve the investment, and certainly paragraph 7 does have a problem. How can we authorize without debate, especially in the committees, the Minister for Development characterise and declassify monuments? It is extremely problematic, I think, that we understand it, especially when it comes to an amendment that we do not have the possibility of parliamentary scrutiny or of hearing the bodies. For deprivation, for your own amendment, I will agree with you legally, and it is right that Mr Kastanides in the second part is another debate, and I will agree with you on the legal side. It's a arrangement that comes after the criminal decision. There are issues theoretically, legally that I do not think there is a better way to deal with at the moment, so in that sense we will also be positive about this regulation. Although I alone have to observe there is that we can have a debate on these kinds of issues, because they are matters of democracy, but I think you have chosen a correct path of law and policy. As far as the fourth, the TIAD, and colleagues from the Change Movement, have told you, they have also told you by the Communist Party, I think we cannot vote for such a provision. These are the amendments. I will speak very quickly about what you have said to us, of course, you have told us very much. You have an excellent ability and custom - Mr Ragus told you in his speech - because you are a good orator and a preparedman, I would say, to try to convince us what fresh apples are presenting us with oranges. You have that, I recognize it, and if I had told you on other occasions about strutting, that's exactly what I meant. I don't mean that you're a rotator, I mean that you're trying to present us with your own clear political position, because that's what you've done for 43% and for all of his legislation and philosophy, but you're showing us in a completely different way so that it can become or more "confidential" or to indict us or theoretically to bring us into a difficult position. It is quite clear to me, and I have put it since it came to the consultation not only in the committees. The aim - and I shall end, I shall not have to mention, we have discussed this in kilowatts - all the provisions of this law has to do with your efforts to favour the current municipal authorities in which your party has the majority in this particular period of time. In this term of office, you have the most mayors and mayors, and they are the ones who are trying to favor. They're the ones you're trying to favor with 43%. Anyone who has held elections to self-government can easily understand it. They are the ones who are trying to favour and not competition by increasing candidates, because you understand that it is very difficult for new groups or for small groups to find many candidates and it is obviously not mandatory. But especially the one who has held self-government elections, but also any human, intelligent Greek citizen understands that whoever downloads 150% has a lot more chance, only families get from the other who can't find. And local communities, that's why they bother you. They disturb you because you need to make it harder for the others than for the administrations of the municipalities and regions to come down to the next elections. But we told you every ton. It'll turn you back boomerang, 'cause you'll just rally forces you can't control them. They have already identified and will also identify in the course of the anti-democratic process that you are attempting and will unite and rub your eyes in the next self-government elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u276	Thank you, Mr. Hatzyannakis. Mr Cappatos, the rapporteur of the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u277	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, moving towards the completion of the debate and the adoption of the draft law "Election of Municipal and Regional Authorities" of the Ministry of Interior, we have developed in depth all our ideas, proposals and objections. If something is worth staying from our debate, it is at the core, in essence, what we call decentralisation. So what does decentralisation mean? It is the idea that an organisation that is smaller and properly structured is by its nature more efficient and easier to account for those who control it. The logic behind decentralised administration lies in the choice of transferring powers from central government to regional and local government. It is the idea that citizens who have the possibility of direct contact with local government have the opportunity to better understand the performance of the elected municipal and regional authorities. The publicity of Argostoli, for example, sees with his own eyes whether his city is clean or not so as to decide whether he is happy or not with the municipal authority and the council that takes decisions, decisions concerning life and everyday life. In Lexiri citizens see and judge the municipal authority from how they manage problems of everyday life by turning them into demands for central political power. Sami Citizen after the dramatic effects of the Mediterranean Cyclone "Janus" expects to see, in practice, our elected fellow citizens who act on his behalf working towards restoring the consequences of the natural disaster. In Ithaca, a municipality of islands, our co-publics can easily see whether or not their daily lives are better than the elected local rulers in the municipality and the region. Contrary to the often impersonal structure of central power, therefore, the public understands in practice the effectiveness and malfunctions that occur daily. What do we do in practice with this draft law? We give the elected mayors and districts the opportunity to effectively run for the benefit of our citizens and citizens and we give citizens the opportunity to judge the elected local rulers from the way they manage the real problems of local government and in our place, the regions and municipalities of Greece to function properly, consistently and in particular with the necessary institutional continuity. I now come to this point, which is 43%, to the minimum for the election of the mayor and regional director and the election of the three fifths of the council in the successful combination. I listened carefully to Mr Ragosi's suggestion. I listened with regret and amazement to a man who, as Minister of Local Government, introduced the 'Kalikratis' programme. I read to you Article 36(2) of the Ragosi Act: "The combination of the successful mayor in the municipal elections takes three fifths of all the councillors' seats in each municipal community". But also in the report of the Parliamentary Scientific Service signed by the well-known professors and scientists of law, we read: "By the systems are majority systems and express different versions of democratic legitimacy of local authorities. It is compatible with the constitutional principles governing the election of the management bodies of the EBRD, in particular the principle of equality of electoral rights, the principle of broader popular representation, the principle of proportionality.’ It is therefore a major and democratic system that we are reintroducing, as much as anyone wants to show it differently. I have tabled this presumption in order to demonstrate that in the end the disagreement on the distribution of seats and the election of local authorities is rather pretext and regrets us as a majority in particular. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to conclude my second language with a historical reference which is of importance. In December 1991 in this Chamber today's debate concerned this House and then. I refer to the minutes of the meeting concerning the transfer of powers to local government and the dispute between Constantine Mitsotakis and the head of the Maria Damanaki coalition then. It says at one point Constantine Mitsotakis: "I want to tell you ladies and gentlemen this so that you know it, we helped the municipalities in the development projects and we facilitate them to the EEC. To Mr Tritsis and to other mayors with whom I said, “Come and help you address Europe”. I have opened them up to Brussels, Mr Damanakis, and I want us to have an ally of local self-government in claiming these great works." And the government within the framework of the major projects that are doing the infrastructure development projects prioritises the works of the mayors. I mention this quote to attempt to transfer it to today. On that mission of mayors and regionals, the Minister of Interior's bill gives weight today. We want municipal and regional authorities aimed at calling for and implementing major projects. We want mayors and district rulers, allies of society, and not prisoners of central authority or of micropolitical local differences. That is why I call on you to put us in a positive position in this draft law. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u278	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Parliamentary Representative of the Communist Party of Greece has asked for the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u279	Mr President, I shall refer to the amendment and to the questions raised by the Minister. First of all, let us make it clear first of all that fascism is a child of the system and indeed their executive arm. For that very reason, we also call on the working class, the people who, with their struggle, can deal with them effectively, but also break "the egg of the snake". One thing is that. To be clear what fascism is, Nazism. Secondly, we believe that this amendment, which comes on the basis of the administrative exclusion of Golden Dawn from the elections, is a pretext and is ineffective. It can turn out to be an empty letter. Because as we told you, Golden Dawn itself can go down to the election if it has a "monkey" leadership that is not doomed. One of the prisoners. Secondly, can the convicted themselves come down with another party as long as they don't look like a stalker and there is a "male" leader? Therefore, it can be rendered ineffective. Second element. We're telling you he opens the ferry door and the port of Halos. And he just came to confirm that Mr Castanides' position is unacceptable. And we say this because it is precisely the dirty role that social democracy has played historically once again. And why do we say he opens up the shackle of the devil? Firstly, there are the unacceptable provisions of Articles 187A and 187B of the terrorist who are dangerous to individual and collective rights. One issue. We have denounced these provisions. Second element. There may be a flexible interpretation for a number of other provisions provided for. Thirdly, you told us that it was only for felony acts. Who excludes us tomorrow that you will not be generalizing this and for wrongful acts? Is someone blocking it? So an amendment opening up all these possibilities will have been passed. Of course, the third reason is because we are a Member State of the European Union. And the European Union has anti-communism as an official ideology. And it's even taking steps. It is very recent that the amendment of the regulation of the European Union by the European Parliament can, on its own initiative or at the reasoned request of a group of citizens, request the Council or the Committee to check the compliance of this political party with the principles of the European Union. And, of course, other issues such as the review of the funding of the parties and other issues that we will find before us. In a number of European countries, the action of communist parties is already banned. What did we tell you? When the debate had begun, we said that precisely because there is this change in SYRIZA's criminal code, which we denounced and because there is also the issue of the Constitution, the provision of irreversible penalty, we say that you should try to escape from this process through the revision of Article 5 of the electoral law. There could be a provision there which states that they are deprived of the right to vote and to stand as candidates in all elections even by means of a preliminary ruling on crimes of formation or inclusion in a criminal organisation and the address of a criminal organisation referred to in Article 187 of the Criminal Code. Finally, we told you this. Since there is nothing urgent to deal with, why did you bring it in the form of the amendment? That's a lot of questions. You didn't explain it to us.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u280	I've explained it to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u281	It's not immediate, it's urgent. He could've come by regular procedure. To have a more detailed and comprehensive discussion. There is no answer here. That's why I told you to withdraw it and come back and talk about it again. However, you are insisting on this procedure which gives rise to many questions, doubts and opens up dangerously ill. That is why we shall vote against it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u282	Thank you very much, Mr. Karathanasopoulos. Mr Ragus called for the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u283	First of all, Mr Voridis, it is really negative for you that you refused to accept the amendment tabled by fellow Members of the SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance for these unhappy children who, in the pandemic, lost both parents and now come to the pan-Hellenic exams.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u284	Is that my responsibility? How am I gonna get out of here? Subscribe to the Ministry of Interior something that falls within the Ministry of Education.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u285	There is the urgency, as is the case in the other amendment. In less than two weeks, we have pan-Hellenic tests. And in any case, Mr Voridis, the House is making progress in all the Greeks, and at the moment you are the government representative in this Chamber. We're talking about kids who lost their parents in the pandemic. Both parents! We call on these children to be given the special treatment which in these cases is envisaged for such children in the light of the pan-Hellenic examinations. First of all, that. Two. I must admit that you are much more careful than many predecessors of the New Democracy Party. By returning this attention you have shown, I will tell you this, Mr Voridis. Today, a debate is closed, but the subject remains open in reality. The issue of communities I mean. KALIKARATIS, as you certainly understand, was a very big fundamental change in the data on the country's administrative map. In the first phase of implementing this very large reform project, it was not possible to extend a series of policies such as community policies or, as is the issue of mere proportionalness to municipal councils or a proportionality in municipal councils, because it was precisely in 2011 that the new institutions should be deprived of. In this sense, therefore, it is not right to invoke exactly what had been chosen at the time, at the beginning of the application of the law. If you wish, I would be happy to explain to you many more provisions that had initially been put into the very logic that I am telling you now, that is to say that we had to go to the transitional stage and indeed to anyone who would be willing to make any changes then. I will only give you one example that you may not have in mind. It is the case of the territorial counter-regions. And that obeyed transition. We wanted it to go sweetly, to velvet the transition from the great and historic institution of the prefecture to the new institution of regional unity. This does not mean that if you now want to abolish peasants or make a change in that one can say "in 2010 we said that". That's the first. Secondly, if we were to enter that logic, why now are you choosing the example of Mr Cappatos and do not choose the other one foreseen by the 'CALICATORI', abolishing 42%? With "CALL" it was abolished 42%, Mr. Voridis. It was introduced in 2006. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Thirdly and finally, Mr President. The essence, the focus of your legislative initiative, I say again, is your choice not to go to the two-and-a-half system plus one, but to bring back this 43% story. Can't you, Mr. Voridis, really, do you want me to say that you're insulting us? - to introduce 43% into the Greek Parliament and come here with an example based on 49%. All of you have devoted it to telling us a big part as an example of what will happen if someone gets 49% and loses the elections in the second round. But you don't bring, Mr. Voridis, a 49% order. You're bringing a 43% order. The example that exists in this case is not what you said. It's the most common thing we'll find, or we'll find it in front of us. You tell us that someone will now take the municipality or district with 43% and not take the district or the municipality of someone who would get 57%. In other words, with your legislative initiative, you are blocking the 57% majority. What are you sitting here telling us, underestimating our intelligence, the 49% example? You wonder why we say it's undemocratic. Of course, it is undemocratic 43% compared with 50% plus one. 50% plus one, Mr Vorides, has the presumption of a majority. It satisfys the definition of a majority. 43% is the definition of a minority compared with 57%. So, how's it going to be? It's simple logic, just math. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u286	The Minister for the Interior has the floor for his denology. Mr Voridis, please avoid the debate on citrus fruit for his short time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u287	He's escorting me! In relation to the reasoning and defence of Mr Karathanasopoulos's position in voting against my amendment, I would like to say, Mr Karathanasopoulos, that what you are saying is: I am voting for it, because there are provisions for terrorist organisations. That is not just the 187, criminal organization. There is also the 187A which is a terrorist. So in your mind it will be okay tomorrow to have a terrorist organization and to be sentenced to long sentenced as the leader of this terrorist organization, who will be partying and going down into combinations. That's what you're telling me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u288	Is that what we said?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u289	That's what you're telling me, Mr. Karathanasopou. Unfortunately, that's what you're telling me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u290	That's too much. I spoke very specifically.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u291	Come on, Mr. Karathanasopus.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u292	You told me you opposed...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u293	I said very specifically that individual and collective rights are being violated. You can't twist what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u294	Come on, Mr. Karathanasopus.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u295	Good. You're gonna fix the distortion I did, if I did, because I don't think I did. And I think I am very well aware of your argument, because I have not spoken of either collective struggles or social struggles. Unless you mean the Criminal Code, it refers to collective and social struggles. We have said nothing about any collectiveity or any social struggle. He writes in for terrorist organisations.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u296	Is that not the disruption of social peace?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u297	The disruption of social peace is a flood.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u298	The blockage of moving, isn't it? Don't drive us crazy now!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u299	You're not listening to me. You don't want to hear me politically, not listen to me, but two minutes...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u300	We won't forget what we know!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u301	No, don't everybody forget about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u302	Mr. Karathanasopoulos, let the Minister finish and if there's a personal matter, we'll see.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u303	Before I say what I say, Mr Karthanasopoulos, I have studied them. And obviously you don't agree with me in ideological politics, but I know what the Criminal Code says. The turbulence is a flood. It's not falling. That's why I'm telling you I think you're wrong about putting it that way. Your right, obviously. But I am critical of your position. And I'm explaining why you're wrong. If what you're worried about is what you're saying to me, that it opens up a ferry, and by that provision, people who fight and deny them rights will come in, I tell you that they don't say that. There's no description of that. Let me tell you it's not physical damage. Someone got into a fight with someone. It's not the resistance in it. That's not in there. They are serious offences which they are insulting and which one cannot defend, since it accepts a basic framework of operation of a coordinate state. If someone comes in and tells me "hey, man, I don't understand anything, I'm going to overthrow it because we're in a revolutionary process", it's another conversation, another conversation. But within a structured, coordinate state that has rules, you can't deny it. One more thing, because I would like to make it clear what Mr Kastanidis has said. You have made your judgment of the role of social democracy and this is an interesting debate. Among you, though, more. Article 29(1), therefore, says: "Greek citizens who have the right to vote, can freely establish and participate in political parties...", says the Constitution, "... to serve the free functioning of the democratic culture". That's what he says. Here too, a question arises as to whether that is what we want to be assessed by someone. The reporter. The Constitution gives it to us and also, we have sworn to the Constitution. 'The action of the parties must serve to serve the function of a democratic culture'. That's what he says. That is what is asked as a question, as a meditation, as a question. If we had given the court the opportunity to judge this treaty, would Golden Dawn phenomena have appeared or would have been prevented? That's the question. I agree with you that these provisions - and I said this at the very beginning - are not provisions which remove political rights. It would be effective in this matter that we have in our hands would be the deprivation of civil rights. And you are right in your position that it was a big mistake, it was a bad SYRIZA's policy that he removed the deprivation of civil rights as an incidental penalty. This has also happened, however, and any reinstatement that now has no specific effect, because it is discriminatory, deterioration of the defendant's position and is forbidden. So that's the situation now. That's how it turned out. That's what happened. So here, where we are, I say that this is the best possible solution. That is why it makes me sad that you do not support it, because we have no other, better solution. The other thing you have proposed to me is something that would fall constitutionally, cannot be allowed to fall, because it actually leads to the deprivation of civil rights, while this is an administrative restriction, not even of the face, but of the parties, of the combinations. They're operating conditions of the parties, they don't even go to the face. So this is the best possible solution. I'm sorry you don't support it. I really would have liked us all to be together in this clean, if you want, position. I fully respect your position and at the same time assess it negatively. Mr Ragossi, I think we have completed our debate. I am not going to come back, considering that little - very much - the arguments have been heard. Nevertheless, there is something serious that I think we should say, because all the rest are of value, we will be judged, we will see it along the way, we will see what system is better, we will see what system produces stable administrations, we will see how local government agencies are governed better, we will see these in the process. What I insist on - and I think it is very bad to introduce into the debate and unfortunately you have introduced it - is that among many choices of electoral systems that have democratic power and are choices that have their arguments, their pros and their actions, but they are choices made within the democratic culture, your wing has used severe conditions for the selection of the electoral system. That is what I think he should have left the debate. It does not mean that a system which is not merely proportional is not a democratic electoral system. Democrat systems exist, such as the enhanced majority. Therefore, you cannot speak from such a viewpoint and position by criticising systems that ultimately marry representativeness with effectiveness, they end up defending the effective and proper functioning of the democratic culture, while the others that lead to unscrupulous crises of conscience and sometimes deep political crises, which take place some hours and crises of democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u304	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles, amendments and all of the draft law of the Ministry of the Interior is hereby declared adjourned: 'Election of Municipal and Regional Authorities'. We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles and the amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. I would like to point out to you that the vote includes the principle of the bill, ninety-one articles, five amendments, the farewell article, and the whole bill. Each time on the screen they appear as four articles for vote. To vote for other articles, you should roll the touch screen. At the top right of the screen the number of articles left to vote is shown each time. Make sure that you have passed all the articles, the amendments, as well as the hotel article and the entire bill. After your vote has been registered, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u305	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u306	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u307	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of the Interior ‘Election of Municipal and Regional Authorities and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority on the principle of Articles and of Articles and of the whole and read as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u308	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u309	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-02-S1-commons.u310	With the consent of the House at 19.20 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday, 3 June 2021, at 10.00, on the subject of this House's work: legislative work, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
