ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. I would like to make a statement to this House. The Ministers for Justice, Finance, Development and Investment, National Defence, Education and Religious Affairs, Labour and Social Affairs, Home, Migration and Asylum, State, as well as the Deputy Ministers of Finance, Foreign and Home Affairs submitted a draft law on 29.11.2021: "Reforms in the legislative framework of the National School of Justice and other urgent provisions of the Ministry of Justice". Reference shall be made to the competent continuous committee. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK The only debate and vote on the principle, articles, amendments and the whole draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment: "Mastery investment and improvement of the investment environment by speeding up procedures in private and strategic investment and setting up a framework for craft companies". The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 25 November to discuss the draft law at a single sitting on the principle of articles and amendments. The speakers will be registered electronically until the end of the speech by the second rapporteur. Is there any objection to this basic procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u2	The House unanimously agreed. The new Republic's rapporteur, Christos Tarantilis, has been called to Step for 15 minutes. Please open the electronic record system. Mr. Tarantil, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment which we are about to vote on today is an important initiative by the government, which tends to create an institutional framework that suits us in a modern and environmentally friendly environment. Modifications proposed by this draft law are structured in three parts: Part one. Create a single framework for strategic investment by consolidating, reforming and improving the existing framework. Part two. Reform of the existing regulatory framework under Development Law 4399. Improve the functioning of individual issues of previous development laws and improve the framework for the establishment of foreign companies in Greece. Part three. Specific arrangements for the establishment and operation of devices, i.e. spin offs, are commonly called internationally. In this order, I shall refer to the principles and the specific content of each chapter. The proposed regulations in the first part of the draft law seek to reform, improve and, in particular, to integrate into a single legislative text the existing regulatory framework for strategic investment, i.e. the two main legislations on strategic investment. 4608 and 4608 The Commission's proposal is based on the principle of equal treatment of men and women in matters of social security and equal treatment. Such pluralism often led to confusion and legal uncertainty both in the candidate strategic investors and in the public administration, which is ultimately called upon to apply all the existing provisions in the course of the implementation of an investment. In fact, in these circumstances, there has been no uniform law on strategic investment, which is a reference point for anyone who wishes to choose our country as an investment destination. The first part, therefore, contains a series of arrangements which relate to all aspects that form a strategic investment, with the aim of coexistence in a law, that is, the most sensible one. The proposed arrangements shall start with the conceptual identification of the categories of strategic investment, providing subsequently for rapid authorisation, authorisation, implementation and judicial resolution of the disputes in the context of the implementation of the investments. The approach followed by the arrangements attempts to bring together individual administrative phases of approval and authorisation to specific bodies, in order to avoid bureaucratic inconveniences of the public administration and the confusion of the diverse competences between the services, in particular in complex and timely issues such as the spatial and urban status of the hosting areas. This concentration is complemented by the addition of accelerators of the licensing process, such as the use of certified assessors of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy register. The definition and categorisation of the strategic investments developed in the first articles of the bill maintains similar logic to the existing law, but with the new regulations the categories of investment strategies are enriched, while changes are made to the conditions for the integration of investment projects, in particular with a view to extending the limits of subordination, in order to make the framework more attractive and more efficient. These aims are pursued through a reduction in the entry budget for ‘State Investment 1’ from 100 to 70 million euros without any other condition or to 40 million euros at the same time as an obligation to set up seventy-five annual units of work. Subsequently, discrimination according to the field of activity is adopted in Strategic Investment 2. In other words, for investments in modern research and innovation, biotechnology, waste and waste management, agrifood, robotic and artificial intelligence, medical tourism, space, the provision of cloud computing services, the budget line goes back to 20 million without any other condition, while for all other sectors it is maintained at 30 million, together with the obligation to create fifty annual units of work. In this context, I would like to reiterate the concern of this draft law specifically for the strategic investments that will be completed in the areas covered by the territorial fair transition plans, where budget indicators are subject to a reduced rate of 25%, with a view to further strengthening the attraction of investment in these areas. In the same direction, this draft law largely reshapes the category of emblematic investments of exceptional importance. This category includes investments implemented by distinguished legal entities, including, in particular, those promoting research and innovation, the green economy and technology and significantly strengthen the Greek economy and its international competitiveness. These investments for which a specific budget limit is not provided, if they wish to benefit from the incentives provided by the Act, are linked to the resources and financial conditions of the Recovery Fund and must be completed by 31 December 2025. In other words, they are forced into forward growth and rapid results. The designation of a project as a flagship investment is assigned to a three-member committee composed of scientists of a well-known variety of specialities, established and operated by a joint decision of the Ministers for Development and Investment and Finance. The incentives provided for in this Legislation are distinguished from incentives for placement, tax incentives, incentives for rapid licensing and incentives for aid for investment strategies. Specifically and exclusively for flagrant investments, cost aid incentives are enriched further and supported in order to take the form of a grant, a leasing subsidy for equipment and a grant for employment created. With Part Two of this draft law now attempts interventions aimed at strengthening the aid schemes of the development law by adding new categories of eligible activities and accelerated interventions, as well as updating the rules concerning the establishment of foreign companies in Greece. With regard to the speeding up of procedures, the responsibility of the projects hosts is changed in such a way that the development plans of the regions of the country accept the projects of up to 1 million, from the limit of 3 million to the present time, while for all the others the responsibility is transferred centrally to the Directorate-General for Private Investment of the Ministry of Development and Investment. The aim of this regulation is to unload the regions' addresses from a significant volume of investment projects and to focus on investment projects which are truly crucial and directly crucial for local entrepreneurship and local development. Accordingly, the assessment plan shall include sworn auditors with a view to a faster examination of the eligibility of the investment projects, while at the same time establishing a time for the adoption of administrative decisions on the certification of interim implementation steps which may not be more than 30 days from the submission of the relevant audit reports and attestations. Finally, as regards the provisions of the law on tax incentives and the obligations of foreign companies established in Greece, among other things, the possibility of granting a temporary residence permit for foreign companies for the first time to carry out the preparatory actions required before tax and other authorities and to immediately commence their activities. That is, in other words, a speeding up of their installation until the final licence is issued, a process which can now take from one to a half a year and a half. The third and final part of the draft proposed legislation establishes for the first time uniform arrangements for the establishment and operation of companies of technicians which are one of the most important tools on the road towards the business exploitation of the research. Ladies and gentlemen, Greece has high-trained scientific capacity and produces global and impact research, which is confirmed by the research indicators and recent scientific studies. It is directly linked to the business exploitation of the research that is the technological, corporate types of capital types established by the research staff of public universities and research centres, for the purpose of exploiting the results and knowledge generated by them. These are special-purpose companies that differ from the common corporate forms as they use a research product produced at public universities and research centres. Therefore, the way in which they are to participate must reconcile and balance the interests of researchers, in terms of the fruits of their work and their research, with the involvement of the institutions in the business exploitation of the results produced within their walls, using their resources. The number of technicians established to date in the country is in no way proportional to the quality of the research produced, as well as to the overall performance of the business use of the research results. This delay is due to a large extent to the total absence of a uniform and relevant legislative framework which defines both the process of setting up technocratic companies and the scope for action by researchers and research organisations within them. The current framework for technobularies is fragmented in a wide range of legislation, which is extremely unclear and incomplete, leaving on the substance the critical issues of the economic nature and the operational situation of researchers to be addressed. This lack led the company to be degraded to a legal entity without a substantial identity, operating under an invisible and inactive institutional cloak. The reform sought by Part Three does not introduce new terms and rules, but it is precisely in the systeming of clear rules for the establishment and operation of technicians' companies to determine, on the one hand, the competence of the approval body and the deadline for the completion of the approval procedure, on the other hand, all stakeholders to understand the necessary, i.e. the process of establishing, the rules for the participation of researchers and research organisations or third party investors in their equity and the procedure for allocating rights and obligations to the intellectual ownership of the research results. Systematicisation and clarification of the operation of technocratic companies will make the process of establishing less bureaucratic and ultimately more attractive, contributing decisively to the provision of another incentive to researchers. The proposed regulation concerns primarily the research organisations in the country and researchers, even from different research organisations. However, it also reflects potential investors who want to invest in these companies. On this basis, henceforth the advantage of public institutions' research will be made more tangible and its benefits towards society are multiplier and visible. And that, let me tell you, is a vote of confidence in public research, public institutions and their people. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law sets out a wide range of arrangements aimed at a modern and effective investment strategy. The pillars of the proposed bill are the basis on which the country's economic development is being opened for the years to come. The principles and arrangements analysed are the necessary treaty for a sound and long-term investment perspective. That is why I invite you to vote in favour of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u4	The rapporteur-General has the floor from SYRIZA, Mrs Theophistis Perka.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, once again, in your habit, we have found a hundred pages of amendments. I imagine in dentistry and other colleagues will have the opportunity. One of them, however, really goes beyond the derogations of this bill. Retrospective legitimisation of acts, and indeed the involvement of a President-in-Office with an amendment, I do not know how constitutional it is. And I am talking about the Petsa List, the Commission which is evolving and an amendment that you have tabled to discuss. But let's go to the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, in a few days' time in this Chamber we will discuss green development, we will hear government ministers say green growth, transition, deprivation. But let's see. Besides, the Prime Minister of the country where he goes, in all fora for this he speaks and commits, as is, of course, committed to the Helsinki Protocol. What does that say? It says that economic policies are being aligned, that is to say, the state aid that is being given to investment, with the green transition. In this bill here there is no environmental component anywhere. We didn't find her. It is just as much that it is dismantling and positive predictions of our own law. The Commission's proposal is based on the principle of equal treatment of men and women in all Member States. Generally speaking, I say that you are privatising the environment. In all the reports, in all the reports, the words 'environment' and 'green transition' exist many times. But every time we talk, we will also remind you of the anti-environmental law and the law that dissolved spatial planning and town planning and the abolition of management bodies, but also the spirit of this same law. Because there is no sustainable development, ladies and gentlemen, with holes in the design of transport, with gifts, with concessions and derogations, derogations and derogations. However, the lack of tools and the bypassing of existing instruments is an option, not a failure or an uncertainty. Nearly since the establishment of the Greek state. Let's see, though, do these choices have financial results? So let us imagine that our country has the necessary tools and culture of the settlement of space, of respect for cultural and natural heritage. Is that enough? Oh, no. It is necessary and not a sufficient treaty. In order to have the well-appointed development we must first describe it, plan strategically what kind of growth we want. Is this about everybody? What are the country's particular problems or comparative advantages and how do we solve them or exploit them? What financial results do we expect? What is the print on employment? Strategic investment, in our perception, is not a mere investment. They must be part of a development strategy, there must be a concrete orientation towards a development model that does not produce deficits, protects labour, reduces inequalities. SYRIZA's government did that. He drew up the National Development Strategy, the one Mr. Georgiadis congratulated Mr. Drasakis and then forgot about it. Your bill has also been released from this commitment. It gives a signal which, in very simple terms, says, 'we have opened and waited for you'. We cannot otherwise understand the abolition of the investment project being part of the logic of the National Development Strategy. In other words, the obligation on the investment project to be part of a strategic conception of the economy is eliminated. This, with mathematical accuracy, restores the country to the edge of the cliff, what we have lived, the random, occasional, the opportunity. At the most critical points in the bill - there has been a detailed discussion in the previous committees, so I will not go into all the provisions - I will mention the following: I see an opaque and indiscriminate context and it results from the terms, conditions, the reduction of budget limits, the reduction of the demand for minimum jobs which we had in our own law. For example, I mention: 'State investments 1', the total budget of 100,000 000 is reduced to 75 000 000, and annual units of work do not require additional posts. In the next case less is needed. The budget is reduced from 100,000,000 to 400,000, and from a hundred to twenty in seventy-five the required coke positions. Look, the forecasts of the International Labour Organisation, ILO, on unemployed development, are catastrophic. These trends cannot be taken into account. No budget limits or a minimum number of jobs shall be set for the emblematic investments. These investments are part of the Recovery Fund, because, obviously, you do not have mature proposals to integrate. Of course, there is a question of what exactly is a 'extreme investment' and who? A three-member committee? It is not transparent, it is not objective, how, rather, when the provision provided for by Law 4608 has left, they are in the first positions of the world and pan-European. The aim is obvious: an objective system should develop into a clearly subjective one. There are, of course, some provisions in a positive direction, such as the 20% extra aid for contagious investments in Affluences, the provision for a reduction of 25% in the minimum budgets to include an investment in categories in areas of the NRAs. Of course, they are not enough and are not considered sufficient to heal wounds, to change the productive profile of lignite areas. We'll tell the next bill more about it. Now, let's go a little bit on camera. A photographic device here, a photographic device there for existing businesses, one there by the law of the junta junta - you remember the law of the junta - and one more to extend to a non-smoked area. The question, however - in order to reach agreement on this - with photographic devices, among others, is that because they are hidden, they regulate horizontally. At the moment that they are legislated, none of us know how many, what instances they may use. Perhaps it would be preferable, in the sense of less evil, to tell us and what investments we are talking about. More generally, at first glance, one understands that the majority of investment projects concern large RES projects and, of course, tourist accommodation without limits and conditions. There are references to data centers, movie studios. I think they are adoring the text, just like the environmental reports. As far as RES is concerned, it takes particular attention here, because we also have smaller-scale energy communities and energy projects which need to be financed. They will receive double aid here, so there is direct competition and the risk of creating an oligopoly of energy. As far as environmental and urban legislation is concerned, I think you have really overcome yourself. The bill restores the logic of the 2010 Act on Strategic Investments, which came under pressure from the economic crisis and institutions' commitments, where attracting investment at any price was the main demand. To satisfy fiscal consolidation, we had to accept all kinds of elasticities, both spatial planning and environmental protection. However, our law, Mr.4608/2019, had positive points, which, instead of going in a more positive direction today, dispersed and returned the Memorandum Laws, but this time, not at the request of the institutions, but as the government's choice. In short, any other provision for reasons is supposed to be of public interest - which we do not see - which each investor will do where he wants to do whatever he wants to do. Conditions for environmental protection relax rather than stricten. That's the title. In any case, you will explain to us what the strategic investment strategy is that is downgrading rather than upgrading their areas of establishment and, indeed, residential areas. If you were once picturesque about what environmental organizations, the academic community, etc., say, today you adopt them verbally. You sabotage them politically and make use of them as they are to serve not strategic investment but strategic investors. But - and we have to agree on that - slowly, domestic investors should be trained in the idea of adapting their investment plans to national and Union legislation. In fact, the more environmentally friendly investment they are trying, the greater support they will receive. We also stop asking for the self-evident, that is to say not even considering whether the NATURA 2000 region will be adversely affected by the preparation of specific ecological evaluation studies. You give the opportunity to make strategic investments in sites of specific projects, giving derogations to the conditions of construction, dissociating spatial planning at all levels from the national spatial planning to the NOK. And, of course, we are telling you this again: the CSCE is an incentive that gives enormous added value to every investment and, of course, it is granted public extent. He needs attention. Easily any hotel to be built can be characterized as a strategic investment. By presidential decrees, therefore, everything is done, removing the commonwealth of the cavalry. As far as the altar is concerned, we will never again tell you about the environmental resource, sharing and over-exploitation, because it seems that this is not what is moving you. But we will tell you - and here you are paying attention - that you are throwing a risk to the investors, because fortunately there is even the CSR and its case law. I would remind you of the case-law: When a strategic investment strategy is adopted by the Ministry of Development, there is no commitment by the authorities responsible for environmental licensing to grant their own permits, simply the investor takes the risk that the investment will not finally be made. We've lived through this. Furthermore, the derogations - and we repeat this - for reasons of public interest are not enough to circumvent constitutional rights, such as free and unrestricted access by citizens to the sea and the beach. We have told you before and life has shown that you are so receptive to investors' demands that, in the end, you are creating issues of investment law and that you are blocking them. They're dropping into S.E. We found the case of the Star of Vuliagmenos, the Afantou Rhodes. You proceeded with the presidential decrees and fell into the U.S. We have changed the philosophy of the Central Board of Management and Evaluation so that the investment identity of the property - land uses, conditions of construction - and then the competitive process takes place. I've got some evidence that I might tell in my dentistry. I just want to say that, as far as strategic investments are concerned, some of them are currently due to our own laws. You know, old investments only concerned photovoltaics, tourism and mall. Nothing else! Of course, it really has to spend some time. We had institutionalised and placed weight on the issues of industry, where we see two investments and - very importantly - the investment of the Municipality of Lefkada for marina was also integrated. In other words, municipalities must also be able to exploit and take advantage of the goodwill of strategic investment. You're doing this for the first time. What we received was the ineffectiveness of the 2010 Act, where few investment projects had been subjected and no investment had been completed, while there was an indefinite institutional framework, without consultation. In any case, we insist that Law 4608 put on certain safeguards and on the legal certainty of investments. And since we have described, on a sound footing, the conditions of the wild west in our country, to see a little bit of private investment. To say, in principle, about the development law. These provisions had to be there to make a complete development. In any case, we see that it is not at all aimed at the model that prejudges the social and solidarity economy, a model for which the SYRIZA government had worked a great deal. I'm referring to young hostels, to hostels. The Minister told us, 'we trust the private sector'. Yes, sir. We also trust the unlucky private sector, as we trust the public sector as well as its know-how and institutional memory. After all, we believe that these roles are or should be distinguished. Everyone's doing another job. The question, however, is this: do you trust society and its institutional representatives? From the legislations and especially from the provisions of this bill, we conclude that Local Government by a decentralised management tool has gone through the blockade category. You remove resources and responsibilities from the regions. The 3,000-dollar management is a 1,000-dollar. And, of course, the former YIM must find something else to do. I'm a charming girl, I think I'm a dancer. You get him the main responsibility. You strip it from a critical competence to submit investment projects. We have mentioned several things in the technoblast companies in the previous committees. Suffice it to say that we also need to increase public spending, as was the case in SYRIZA's governance with the "Research - I Create - Innovative" and the attractive Equifund financial instrument. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] Unfortunately, I don't have much time. I shall close, Mr President, shortly. So let's see with this bill what exactly another productive model you describe. Just the same thing - I say - that brought us to the edge of the cliff. We have heard many inaccuracies recently through an oral Prime Minister of the country. I refer to the memorials, 'SYRIZA has put the country in the memorials'. Here is the inaccuracy of who - we all know - when the country entered the memos. But there is another crucial question: why did the country enter the memoirs? One of the reasons - I say - for the economic crisis - except for the other causes of corruption, etc. - it was the distorted anti-developmental, ultimately, model that has been followed for many years and, unfortunately, is slowly reintroduced into every bill. We cannot accept that the repeated crises - global ones, but with a special fingerprint in our country - are normal. There is an undeniable need for a development strategy for a new model of sustainable and fair growth. There's stuff hanging under those words. It is a pity now that there are available resources, which there are no institutions to force you on what to choose to move forward, now that the global economy is trying to adapt to the new climate crisis data, your country continues to be the pariah, going like old: investment that literally exploits natural resources in exchange for some job losses. That was the model, that's why we got there and that's where you're taking us again! We must therefore speak very clearly to the Greek people. It is unfair for the people themselves to pay each crisis, with global characteristics, in such a painful and tragic way. There is no development, no green transition, nor is there any prosperity for the people. If we do not productively upgrade the country with a sustainable economy, it is certain that we will lead to new crises, increasing public debt again from the outset. However, institutional changes usually require much longer than a government's term of office, to be planned, implemented and started to pay off. I am really sorry that the future is already here and all these options you will have to manage them by the new government of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, try not once again to continue the effort from where it was left, since everything that you have received, you will have to go through brief procedures, but like Sisyfos to relive the rock so that the country can be led to a path of sustainable and fair growth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u6	Thank you very much. Please close the electronic recording system. The reason is now the Special Buyer from the Change Movement, Mr. Michael Katrinis. Here you go, Mr. Catarini, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the government, and you still recognise that the climate in the country is very heavy for both the economy and society. The continuing failures of the government to manage pandemic and the inappropriate pluralism of the ministers on health issues - it is not about you, Minister - have brought everyone to their limits while creating an explosive mixture that undermines and cancels any attempt to overcome the deadlock. For some time now, the government has only been content with the communication management of the effects of pandemic, 'trying' to convince us that what is happening in our country is expected, that is what is happening in the other countries of the European Union without making self-criticism about the mistakes, without making self-criticism about the contradictions, without making any remedial and, above all, substantial moves. However, the situation on the market is similar. The relevant ministers are reluctant to refuse to accept that an unprecedented wave of appreciations is evolving which seems to have a duration and intensity. Thus, not taking necessary measures on their part aggravates the already heavy atmosphere. In this context, price increases are a daily phenomenon and inflation is on the verge. Already in October, the General Index of Consumer Prices reached 3.4% compared to the same month last year. The price of electricity just last Thursday, Minister, went up to EUR 285,24 per MWh, making us the third most accurate market in the European Union and canceling every strategy that you have adopted so far to deal with these increases, a strategy that proves to be based on completely wrong estimates. As for gas, we have a more than quadrupl price than last year. The increase is 480%, 0.098 euros per kilowatt now from 0.017. It is no coincidence, therefore, that in this economic climate, with the debts of the past at the same time, all of the debts of the past together - all the debts of the past and the debts have to be paid in the next period - consumer demand has decreased with merchants watching numbly. Even the so-called 'Black Friday' did not manage to stimulate the market with official references - at least from the first elements that have come from market operators - to mention a turnover of about 300,000, 000, as in other words last year. But let's not forget that last year the Black Friday took place under lockdown conditions. And it may not be possible at the moment for serious deficiencies or storage to have occurred on the market, but it is clear that gradually all additional costs are passed on to the consumer with the household basket constantly accurately and visiblely to the risk that its essential items will become luxury items for the weakest households and not only. Throughout this setting, unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, the government is confined to the role of an observer. It reassures public opinion about the transientity of the phenomenon, which is not only temporary, and is behind the Competition Committee carrying out certain checks. Of course, the problems of small and medium-sized enterprises continue in this context: the fall of cigarettes in retail trade and a focus of over 30% due to the implementation of the necessary new measures, a requirement to repay accumulated debts and liabilities - only in the next four months will they be called upon to pay 11,000,000 euros of debts - reduced liquidity due to suffocating lending limits and a weakness of additional support from the state. The danger is obvious. Under these conditions of the "perfect storm" everyone's fear is in the course of time to watch businesses close. However, the permanent incubation of the financial staff is that the money is over. Yeah, the money's over, but the pandemic isn't over, nor is the restrictions on customer access. It is the justified response of small and medium-sized businessmen who are narrowed by the lack of liquidity, unfortunately also because of the mystical strategy adopted by the banks. Yet we are talking about a sector that accounts for 99% of entrepreneurship in the country. The government, however, whistles indifferently and effectively excludes small and medium-sized enterprises from the recovery fund projects. But since we are talking about the Recovery Fund, Mr Minister, we have still not been given an explanation why the EUR 1.718 billion package which was included in the medium term was not disbursed and was expected to be disbursed at the end of October. Is it related to the delay in implementing the necessary reforms and objectives that are prerequisites for disbursing the dose? And what does the government have to say if their own failure and oligopoly delay valuable resources for the country? Or does it relate, Minister, to the country's fiscal image? Let us not forget that all the expected ratings from credit rating houses have been postponed, since the course of the Greek economy is largely dependent on the future of the European Central Bank bond exchange programme. And the course of the Greek economy is not as optimistic as it is trying to present us with the financial staff. At some point the government must go out and say why the money that the Greek economy ever needs is not on time and is not disbursed by leverage to be valuable especially at this juncture. Bad lies, ladies and gentlemen, the messages are not optimistic. A week before the State Budget Office in Parliament issued a communication on the budget of 2022, stressing that the implementation of the planned budgets includes significant uncertainties arising from the alarming development of the pandemic. Indeed, it says that our country remains in the worst European positions on the health effects and the course of vaccinations, the possible permanent losses of the recession caused by the pandemic and the level of ability of taxpayers to meet their obligations and the possibility of switching monetary policy due to inflationary pressures. In this context, therefore, the draft law, which is presented by the Government as a monument of consistency and an integrated plan for attraction and acceleration of investment, is part of the policy of government. But really, ladies and gentlemen of the government, what has happened with those outstanding ministerial decisions of your "Investing in Greece and other provisions" of 2019? Ministerial decisions which, ladies and gentlemen, two years after the bill was passed, have not yet been adopted, thus demonstrating the inadequacies of your euphemism of a state of euphemism. Are you going to send the right message to the investment community when you have not yet completed the institutional framework for attracting investment, that you are serious about this neural sector? Or do you think that with this bill and simply recasting provisions of development law, you will reinstate earlier legislation provisions and regulations, will you overcome all the unfamiliar consequences of your governance in terms of attracting investment? In any case, Minister, we have identified several problems both in the provisions on the creation of a single framework for strategic investment and in the provisions on the reform of the development law, including previous development laws. I'm speeding up the most important thing for us. Firstly, the government's political choice that the improvement of an investment environment, in introductory terms at all times, is confirmed, is identical to the deregulation of spatial and environmental planning. We read not in a opposition newspaper but in "Sunday Day". I mention it exactly as it is in the newspaper: "The draft law of the Ministry of Development enhances the depreciation of urban planning, multiplying the derogations from legislation, restricting publicity, since only for ten days the final summary of the project is made public." What else can one write when, for example, Article 3 allows strategic investment to be carried out in all regions of the Natura 2000 network, with the exception of only areas of absolute nature protection on the basis of specific environmental studies by way of derogation from the applicable environmental legislation? Or when the urban arrangements referred to in Article 4 absolve spatial planning in all the ranges from the national and regional for spatial planning to the local for town planning, thereby cancelling any concept of legal certainty, any concept of urban-acquisition and any concept of guaranteeing local consensus? In essence, the Government has brought in a provision which allows for the exclusion of strategic investments on all terms and a restriction on urban or regulatory planning to build anything, anywhere in every way, in any way, provided that it is done, without preconditions and without principles. Everything on his altar "investment is and whatever it is". But everything on the altar of communication is enough for the government to appear as a philosophical investment and the Prime Minister to take pictures of the relevant reports and play anything in the main news reports. Do you really think what I'm describing is too much? That everything I'm saying has not been seen in the last two and a half years? Or are your rules under Article 5 excessive on the granting of the use of hay and beaches, a provision which clearly denies the principles of sustainability and entails serious - I repeat - serious environmental risks? And what I have described is that you will do so, since you bring the so-called rapid licensing incentive to Article 9, which is nothing other than a way of weakening environmental licensing even further and, therefore, taking environmental protection measures. Or do you believe that the forty-five calendar days period within which the issue of any required licence or authorisation must be completed can be complied with? Your legislative coin, gentlemen of the government, is not only unrealistic, it is also weak in terms of what it is supposed to serve. For the first time, a number of aid schemes are presented in the bill. We have asked for clarification as to whether these will work in isolation or at the same time as you do not give clear timetables, nor is there any provision made for the depletion of resources in any of them. But we haven't got a reply so far. But also the 15-year margin - if possible! - for the implementation of a strategic investment strategy, we think it is excessive considering that to build the "Eleftherios Venizelos" airport it has only taken four years. Furthermore, the provisions you bring do not strengthen the local production footprint and the relevant multiplier effects, since Article 15 does not provide for the strengthening of the domestic production base, which is specifically demanded and required in this economic and social context. As there is no balanced regional development, nor is there any criterion for allocating investment to regions which are lagging behind in relation to the necessary infrastructure such as transport, telecommunications and logistics. But, above all, ladies and gentlemen, there is absolutely nothing for small and medium-sized enterprises or to facilitate them if their plan is adopted. And if we are currently being viewed by professionals and businessmen who have applied and been subject to previous provisions of development bills, they are well aware of the difficulty they face when they go to the banks to fund and while they have a specific plan, unfortunately they have a great, insurmountable failure to find liquidity to implement their plan. This should have brought us today to the bill, to make it easier for entrepreneurship to go beyond the aid scheme to have a financial facility to implement its investment project. Unfortunately, this cannot be done. However, the particularly favourable overall framework of support provided through different forms of incentives to strategic and simple private investors could serve as a model for supporting similar smaller-scale investment initiatives at the level of small and medium-sized enterprises. There are also special cases which should be highlighted and predicted in areas affected by major disasters, such as recent natural disasters or fires in Evia and Elias. It could therefore provide for an automatic activation to a higher rate of grant, both for new investments and for those who have suffered damage, which could be even greater if it was linked to a conservation or job creation clause. Now, in the third part, which concerns the establishment and operation of technicians' companies, we believe that the provisions are positive and we will vote for them because we too want to see the companies grow, the “spin-off” companies, since we believe they are one of the healthy and innovative solutions for the development of our economy. After all, we should not underestimate that our country has a highly trained scientific capacity, and we should all contribute to the best possible use of it. Ladies and gentlemen, in the Change Movement we traditionally support, as we continue to support, all kinds of investment initiatives, since they respect the environment and because they are necessary infrastructures contributing to a fair energy transition, but also based on a balanced framework of incentives, both with foreigners and potential investors. And obviously we are not fearful with “fast track” procedures, since we first institutionalised Mr. 3894/2010, speeding up and transparent implementation of strategic investment. Proof of the great interest that we have as a Change Movement for the implementation of strategic investment is the emblematic investment of the Greek, which we have supported from the concept of even today that have begun some support work at the political, social, economic and ideological level in order to compel investment and to implement it. But we can't tell the investments as the government does. We give them the role they really play as a potential, very dynamic development tool. In attracting private sector investment, we believe that competition with the State is not the main aim, nor the demonization of the State, but the complementarity of the two. Known for us must be one of the safeguarding of the public interest and the condition is that transparency and not photographic settings or ribbon “tailor made” of provisions to investors who are still ghosts. However, the government's general policy on the matter, its unexplained obsessions and the quite problematic articles of the bill, which cause the praisers even within the limits of the government's party, shatter whatever good will and exceed our tolerances. The common objective is to make our country a real investment city, of course, while respecting the necessary environmental safety controls, so that sustainable development can be achieved. This objective cannot be achieved without a coherent framework, without rules and stable strategy, which unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, are absent from today's bill. For the amendments, which have been tabled literally at night, I shall be placed in my dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u8	Mrs Diamanto Manolakou will now take the floor from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr President. This bill has obtained more funds, with unrelated matters, through three amendments that you tabled at dawn and a quarter that you tabled a few hours after the second reading. Although we have asked for amendments, we have taken your silence. But this fourth amendment is provocative. It is about publicity advertising and responsibility, although it belongs to the presidency of the government, now you are transferring it to the contracting companies with retroactive effect. You are ashamed of the outcry there has been and you are making a legislative arrangement, which will be the source of new problems, it will act as an industry for new "Petsa" lists and the state will hide, creating an alibi that it has no responsibility. The Communist Party of Greece has tabled an amendment in good time, which you rejected, because it has put as main message that messages related to the protection of public health should be transmitted and registered in all the media for free and not in terms of advertising campaigns. We'll put it back in the Minutes. And to conclude on this amendment, there is also an article on ERT and independent productions. Of course, there are here, but in this article, you are generalizing it, which means punctuating state television. It is unacceptable and we ask you to withdraw the amendment. I come to the main theme, the bill. It has essentially two parts and a common objective. The first part ensures a bar of new provocative privileges to strategic and emblematic investments, built on all previous SYRIZA. With the new provisions and codifications of the previous government and today, with provocative incentives, tax exemptions, reductions, State aids, subsidies, derogations to the urban building, land use, spatial plans, public land supply, new changes to environmental licensing, tearing down what was left of the current context. It thus reveals your hypocrisy to protect supposedly forests and sanctuaries from the consequences of the climate crisis. So the legislation on strategic investment is enriched and better adapted to the data of your green development - foolishness. The second part establishes the institutional framework for companies of technicians through the commercialisation of the investigative process. In other words, instead of increasing state funding for higher institutions and research centres, in order to meet the needs of students, researchers and teachers, the Government is creating incentives for research organisations through the provision of their infrastructures to technocrat companies, by encouraging institutions in self-organisation and the search for resources through profit-making partnerships. The extension of the establishment of companies with the use of university infrastructure will deprive students and other research teams, not participating in the specific companies, workshops and specialized equipment belonging to the entire university community. The common goal of all this is to ensure a secure profitability for major investors at the expense of people's needs. All of the bill is subject to the prospect of a return on capital gains and the competitiveness of domestic capital, attracting profitable investments, with the coarse disbursements of the Recovery Fund, which will be combined with the escalation of the anti-grass-requirements. Because the draft law on strategic investment is one of the prerequisites for anti-grass and anti-grass bills for disbursement from the Fund. In other words, the new millennium, which is the Recovery Fund, with 30 billion, is rising GDP, but they are poor and impoverished by workers and the people as a whole. It is the continuity in the law - an abortion for labour, which brought the working middle ages, ten-hour work, restrictions on trade union action, flexible working relationships, uncertainty and insecurity. After all, in this bill, there is alignment with today's - state-of-the-art framework, which has been shaped by the bourgeois governments in recent years. Even the elementary jobs per investment, not only do they provide for binding, but they are replaced by annual units of work, in the context of flexible employment and changes in labour legislation, which have been promoted over the past period. But large-scale investments do not require permanent, stable jobs. You consider this to be a cost and the workers with full rights of weight, those who produce wealth! Basically you get SYRIZA's doughnut under SYRIZA's Law 4608/2019, which the New Democracy had voted for, giving even more incentives, tax exemptions and subsidies to invest accumulated funds and, above all, to bring the groups down billions of euros of the Recovery Fund, the NSRF and the Development Law. Of course, these amounts will be charged to the state budgets, i.e. on the backs of the people, together with the anti-government overturns provided for in the national recovery and resilience plans. The aim of this bill for the government, as did SYRIZA's previous one, is to free investment from any obstacles and any time-consuming process. It is part of a grid of provisions used to implement the project Greece 2.0 of the New Democracy, the Pissaridis project, and includes provisions concerning both the method of subsidisation and provisions that form a more favourable regulatory framework to promote investment with changes that are of decisive importance and are not innovative. It is about completing the changes to licensing that have been systematically promoted throughout the entire decade by both New Democracy and SYRIZA. They are conclusive forecasts both in the Memorandum and in the Memorandum. The framework that is now being promoted is essentially express permits. Greater importance is attached to the so-called emblematic investments, namely those relating to the energy and environmental footprint economy. It is clear that these provisions concern investments in the green and digital economy, which are at the forefront of the Recovery Fund. The authorisation shall be expedited as the licensing authority formally examines the completeness of the dossier and there shall be disciplinary proceedings to officials for the non-preparatory mission by regional or other departments. In other words, the administration will serve as a priority strategic investment. Considering that in public services we have fewer staff with functional problems of technological equipment and file digitisation, in such circumstances the administrative staff will be at risk of being penalised in terms of late obligations. That is why they will also be operating at the expense of other potential needs, at the expense of social needs. However, the timescales of the law make the real and effective control of important sectors such as environment, archaeology, the settlement of riots, etc. almost impossible. Derogations will have a continuous flow in general land use rules, in particular and local town planning plans, as they may be amended on a case-by-case basis by presidential decrees. Thus the hierarchy will be made with the criteria, the needs of capital, the oligarchy and not the majority of the people. Woe to the one who has a house arbitrary and has paid tens of thousands of fines. But even whole areas are considered illegal instead of expanding and joining the city plan. They are tortured by threats of demolition and fine. That is your policy, unequal, unfair, classic. The possibility to submit investment projects above EUR 3 million to the Ministry of Interior's Private Investment Directorate in the Macedonian-Thracian Sector is also abolished. An important economic competence is thus removed from northern Greece while establishing further duplication of private individuals, since the evaluation and approval procedures of the submitted projects as well as the implementation certifications are delegated to private accountants or audit firms. With regard to the institutional framework for the establishment of innovative companies exclusively within the university or research centres, you are now regulating the conditions and procedure for the establishment of technicians' companies, the conditions for participation in them of the academic or research staff of the organisations, the relationship between these companies and the organisation and the conditions for the participation of third parties, and the introduction of incentives for the establishment and operation of technicians' companies. Is this an opportunity for university and new researchers? In fact, the needs of capital are met since business groups do not want and cannot take over the great investment risk for the development of all new knowledge and the high cost of innovation production. As you grant them ports, airports and other infrastructures to profit from this too with the university section, which comes to contribute to capitalist reproduction, effectively taking the risk of new product or service that constitutes innovation. Once the product or service is proven to be competitive and has great profitability margins, the private sector recapitalises its share and eventually takes over a ready and tested business with facilities of universities and research centres of universities. The university in practice gambles reserves and cash on behalf of large businesses. However, these should be intended to meet the needs of the teaching and research of students and their educational needs. This is why the Communist Party of Greece stands against linking entrepreneurship to the educational process in universities and research organisations. We demand only public funding to the level of needs. We are fighting for the solution of the objections that capitalism brings to the educational and research process. Entrepreneurship cannot solve the problem of distance between the possibilities of developing science and research and exploiting the results of society. Capitalist growth, therefore, and through strategic investment, it turns out that it is not the solution to labour-local problems. The profits and the accumulation of capital require continuous investment facilitation arrangements, labour-intensive training, and the draft law goes exactly in this direction by further specifying the legislation to date. The sectoral orientation of investment, green transition, logistics, high-scale tourism and others does not surprise us, since it implements New Democracy's policy and is identical in SYRIZA's respective programme. The sectoral orientation in the green transition, the need for greater labour force exploitation, the agreement to the need to further facilitate investment ultimately reveals the common strategic orientation of both SYRIZA and the New Democracy and underline the need for a radically different path, a different development path. The solution lies in the opposite of capitalist development, the social ownership of the means of production and the central scientific planning of the economy. The removal of capitalist profit as an incentive to production is the warning difference that allows a growth that focuses on the worker and meets his needs. Therefore, the way out for the people's interests is not in waiting for solutions from above or in a governmental rotation, but in organising the labour struggle in association with the JRC, in order for the people themselves to put their own seal on developments, to cancel anti-Hallian anti-Fraud laws and designs, to impose the path that really serves all their modern needs. Therefore, we are voting against the bill and in my denology I will talk about the other amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u10	Stepma is now called the Special Buyer from the Greek Solution Mr. Vasiliardos. Here, Mr. Villardo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u11	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we will start from the fact that we are fed up with constantly hearing 'will', such as the issue of authorisation for investment projects, when it is known to the Ministry that there are still over three and a half thousand investments, up to seven hundred six days, over two years. Why are they pending? As the political leadership of the ministries responsible for investment has said, the ones sent to the Region for study and approval take up to three years, due to the fact that when decentralisation was properly promoted, the region was not entrusted in a way that would help investment and does not cause bureaucracy. Now, of course, the New Democracy is returning to a concentration of power in its ministries, which is certainly not right either for the region or for the country. The most important thing, however, is that every party that comes to power deposites its own development programmes, by abolishing those of the former ones. How, then, is it possible to gain the confidence of the investors that we all know are investing in the long term? Should governments' investment programmes not be stable for at least fifteen years, as should the tax system? Isn't that obvious? In the first Commission, we said that the bill was presented as a developmental one, because it is another differentiating in the regulations on strategic investment, and its main disadvantage is vagueness on its main point, namely, which are the best strategic areas and the directions of our economy. It does, of course, contain an important innovation concerning the establishment of TEIs in the third part and in Articles 51 to 65. A framework that exists long ago and which, of course, is absolutely necessary for our country, because it has to maintain the young graduates on its territory. Moreover, to reverse the brand drain that has cost us more than EUR 100 billion in education costs, with which our six hundred and fifty thousand young people who left because of the memoranda, of course, have benefited their host countries, as well as over 30 billion in annual GDP. This is a positive development at institutional level with the obvious copying of the relevant foreign practices, of course it is sufficient to shape the conditions at political and economic level so that it can be successful. However, we have clarified that employment from startups in Greece is low, under three thousand cumulatives, bearing in mind that between 2010 and 2020 only $1.34 billion was financed with only $300 million, nine Greek staff employed in Greece, a total of six hundred eight with them abroad. Also, with 2020 figures from the National Documentation Centre, in 2020 there were fifty thousand fifty-nine people in the field of research and development in Greece in relation to seventy-seven thousand twenty-nine in 2001, which means that we also had about the thirteen thousand casualties, among other things, due to the memoranda that the Minister has always supported. We also recalled that the government has included ELIAMEP in research and development with n. Regulation (EEC) No 3712/2020. If that's possible! When are we going to be Europe in terms of added value? Never, as long as we fall short of the investigation by promoting the various unethical ELIAMPs in its place. Furthermore, the main volume of the arrangements in the draft relates to strategic investments, which in essence relate to an obsolete model of Community aid service, such as the Green and Digital Agenda of the Recovery Fund and the NSRF. Also, tourist facilities which must finally be understood that they cannot be the main response to the development of our country, because it is a model of cheap arrivals which mainly serves the foreign operators of our related infrastructures, namely the German airports of FRAPORT, which we sold out through the financing of our own banks, the TUI companies that suckle our hotels and so on, and we must not forget that only there is no one talking about pollutants, particularly aircraft, nor green development. Is environmental hypocrisy not evident, then? In any case, what Greece needs is investment in its primary sector, in processing and more generally in industry, if at least for reasons of food adequacy and tourism that imports almost everything, but which, unfortunately, requires a vision, there is no reminder that the Minister of Development in our question about the compensation of Dieselgate, where we asked for the production of cars at least in exchange for Greece, replied that it is a small country, when it is the only one in the European Union without a car industry, and it is a key pillar in the development of an economy, such as Portugal, which is also small as we. Although he mentioned something about a VOLKSWAGEN factory, we ended up with the advertising of the German company in Antypalea, as well as the firework of the Albanians from Germany, where he was not answering - we asked, but he did not answer - where the construction of the factory promised is. Continuing strategic investment could and should be determined by the government, and unfortunately only a small vague reference is made to Article 2. We have seen no reference to our defence industry, at least for developmental purposes, and also for commercial applications such as Drone of the University of Thessaloniki. Other problems, of course, such as what industry will produce, with the energy costs - very important - should be solved by taking advantage of our competitive advantages, such as the nickel of LARCO, which is the only one in the European Union together with Finland, what it will be of interest to import rather than produce at the same time. This naturally requires work and planning, instead of waiting for investors by offering them land and water, as in the case of the Latsis Group which provided the EUR 300,000,000 advance in July, having already sold apartments for more than 800 million, depriving additional bank funds of EUR 1,16 billion from our economy and from our small and medium-sized businesses or ELDORADO GOLD of the one-faced "Greek Gold" that is, with the many offshore in the Netherlands and all the others. (XA) Furthermore, in the main parts of the bill, I would like to say the following: In the first part and in Articles 1 to 30, it is once again laid down what strategic investment means. These investments are divided into Strategic Investments 1 and 2 according to size, from 20 million to 75 million, with forty, fifty or seventy or seventy-five new Annual Labour Units (EMU), but without mentioning the wages, which should be decisive for the quality of jobs. In large investment over EUR 75 million, there are no jobs at all. Strategic Investments of more than 20 million include, to some extent, areas related to new technologies and the guidelines of the Pissaridis study, such as agri-food, research and innovation, biotechnology and others, as well as those aimed at the digital transformation of the company or the provision of cloud computing services, i.e. those related to the European Union Digitalisation Programme, “Digital Europe”. The Entrepreneurial Investments of Excellence are followed by the "green" economy, innovation, technology and so on. That is, in fact, about the 'green' agenda of the European Union and the previous ones from the Recovery Fund. However, as explained by the strategic investments in power plants, lignite is excluded, despite the fact that they could have a low environmental footprint with carbon dioxide conservation technology and others used, for example, by Germany. It seems clear here that further energy dependency will be followed, which is already at 78% on the basis of the ESA of the Government, since imported RES equipment, marine, wind and photovoltaic are being promoted, without mentioning, of course, where hydrogen and energy storage are promoted. Next are the Rapid Authorisation Investments that create at least thirty new SMEs and their total budget is 20 million euros or 10 million if they are added to an existing strategic investment. Finally, we have the self-evidently integrated strategic investments involving PPP projects or European energy projects under Article 8 of L.4271/2014 or business parks. For the rest, various unacceptable facilities and derogations from the applicable conditions and construction restrictions are provided. For example, Article 3 will be adopted by way of derogation from environmental conditions, so while legislation is being circumvented, there will be a great deal of room for service. In addition, the environmental hypocrisy of the Government, which is being depleted to lignites, is documented, of course, by the Germans as usual, since licenses will be granted to NATURA areas, which, as is apparent from paragraph 1a and so forth. Article 4 introduces unacceptable derogations from the urban legislation as regards the factors of construction, coverage and so on, whereas paragraph 2 states that if derogations fall within the limits of archaeological site or nearby monument, approval by the Minister of Culture is required. In other words, the Minister will be able to approve an investment next to a monument, as we see to be the case with Mrs Mendoni in the example of the Acropolis. If that's possible! Article 5 provides for investment in the right to use a seabed, a beach, a specific or adjacent sea space or on the seabed, in essence, the complete concession of agialos, which may be unconstitutional. Our questions here which were not answered by the Minister were as follows: will there be free access? Will it be renting? So, can the beach of Navy be leased to Zakynthos, for example? If so, who will decide on the terms and the rent? The ministers? Why should the bottom be leased? With regard to Article 17, we have proposed that the detailed timetable for the investment should be submitted and a guarantee letter, since it has been prior to checking creditworthiness, so that what happened with Mohegan, which had financial problems and disappeared, is not the case with the investment in the casino. She practically disappeared. As far as Article 18 and paragraph 4 is concerned, we have found that the state mechanism is completely being circumvented by asking whether the government thinks that private auditors are a guarantee, especially when they are not being supervised and are not even imposed and no sanctions are imposed. It seems that the government has learned nothing from the EAW, that is, the Supreme Court, which has not been valued at all. We have given the status quo, without valuation, despite the fact that it is controlled by a large company of sworn auditors. He learned nothing from the first attempt to sell "Eleftherios Venizelos", which was a vowed auditor, while the price was later doubled by DG COM, not by the great scandal of Folie - Folie. Finally, there are additional special rapid permits for the auxiliary accompanying works of the investments concerned and so forth. Continuing, in the second part and in Articles 32 to 44, there are a number of amendments to so-called development law 4399/2016 to strengthen private investment in Greece, which, however, do not significantly improve its regulatory framework. Articles 45 to 48 refer to the establishment of foreign trade companies and how the existing institutional framework is amended. To close, the third part and Articles 51 to 68 are the most interesting, since the framework for the establishment and operation of companies - technicians of higher education institutions known as “spin-offs” is introduced. The development of technicians, companies, i.e. by researchers and staff of PIs, is a positive step, the only step in the draft law, which solves, among other things, the question of the incompatibility of PIs teachers with their participation in companies. There is much room for their development, since the staff of the Greek HEIs are worthwhile and our universities have major positions worldwide. Of course, the provisions on technocrats are not enough by themselves to achieve growth, and we do not agree with the other regulations, let alone when all state control mechanisms are overrided by concise procedures and controls by third parties without any strategic planning and unacceptable superpowers are provided to ministers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u12	We'll close the speeches of the special speakers with Mr. Kritonas Arsenis from Mera25. Then the Deputy Minister will take the floor for five minutes, Mr. Syrigos, for the piece of technoblasts. The President of the Greek Solution, Mr Velopoulos, has asked after the speech. And to read out all five of my first colleagues to be in the Chamber. It's Mr. Simopoulos, Mr. Famelos, Mr. Synthetakis, Mrs. Adamopoulou and Mr. Maravegias. Here, Mr Arsenis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u13	Thank you very much, Mr President. Members, MPs, ministers, I can only acknowledge that we are another country these days after what has happened in Keracini with little Olga. I imagine, and I hope that all or at least some people in this Chamber would like to be there to take care of her. There's nothing we can do right now, but we can do something about it so it won't happen again. I don't personally believe in anyone's exemplary punishment. I am referring to these people who have not been human. These are the fruits of a tree that we socially boasted governments and many in this society with hatred, with fear and indifference. I thought the solution would be education, that is to say, giving all our power to schools. My personal experience, coming from a good public, an experimental one, is that even when you get your principles from your family and from your school, you come and break your face in a society that doesn't support these principles. That's not good enough. We need to make our society as a whole, protect the area of work, the right to decent work, the man when he is in misery, which we can all find. Governments in recent years have been doing exactly the same backwards. The fact that - although no one has given up on what happened in Keratakis - Mr. Mitsotakis has not been found to say a word about this child is related to the fact that in some minds this is a side effect, a self-evident impact of a world that does everything for the powerful and the powerful. This world we need to overthrow, so there won't be another little girl in the Olga position again. Any government that cannot implement a society of solidarity, a world of solidarity, can go home. We won't be witnessing the repetition of what happened in Keratsini over and over. Here we have a bill that does exactly what I described. He bears these fruits of evil, the fruits of hatred and indifference of our society. He's giving everything back to the mighty, the few people. Now the main focus is the beaches. What does the beaches have to do with all this? The beaches are one of the last privileges a man has, any man in this country, a man who has seen his job lose, his children flee abroad, lose his home. Of the few privileges left, these are the beaches. Free access to the beaches. That access to this bill is being cut off. It gives it to two ministerial offices, an interministerial office, which will be called a strategic investment. These people will be able to access beaches that are in front of their business, which are on another plot they will use, a thousand five hundred meters away, which have nothing to do with this beach geographically. That's the law. What existed, in other words, as a self-worth in our society, is that it does not go to be the most powerful businessman in this country, if it shuts you off access to the beach, which is a public good, you can claim it. This ends. However, whatever you do those who have these thoughts, the reality, the movements will overthrow you, solidarity will overthrow you. I will mention three flagship words, bambooes, for those who want to promote the interests of the powerful. These are the three contagious investments announced by Kyriakos Mitsotakis on behalf of the New Democracy in an election that his Government will promote. Slags, gold mining, oil mining and Greek. They are flagrant investments for the government's failure to impose them - I want, I do not want - on society. Squirrels. After giving this company - a contract that does not exist in any other country in the world, making their profits to be foreign capital, for which people should always have at the edge of a foreign currency, so that they can export them wherever they want, whenever they want - as you did in this bill and in the case of strategic investments, uninterrupted access to infrastructure, networks, you give them the right to the north-east of Halkidiki to do what they want to do first in this place where people live, real families, villages, where my own ancestors grew up. So since you gave them all this, nothing has gone wrong. I am learning that a buyer is being sought, I am learning that he is not a buyer, because as much as you do, he knows that there is an active movement when he knows that there is resistance and that these plans can be overthrown and that is how it will stay on paper. Let's go to the mines. First Samaras, then PASOK, SYRIZA, New Democracy, you promoted the mining. You've told them and emblematics, NATURA mining, everywhere. And while we live in the century of climate collapse, you warmly support it and insist against the weather. You'll be the last to insist, I'm sure. The Spanish Repsoil first left, the Italian Edison left, they leave the Greek ELPE and Aegean leaves. In fact, the French Total has remained in practice and it is in the case of fresh fruit. The latter will close the door and you will insist on mining. For the wells, however, Total can do seismic research. To bomb, that is, for months the Greek moat, the deepest part of the Mediterranean, the unique breeding site for the minimum whales left in the Mediterranean and their most basic food with sonars, with sound bombs. This can mean the end of biodiversity, the end of nature in the Mediterranean. We have no idea what will happen in the Mediterranean if these few two-two whales leave and no one knows. Bring us a scientist who can answer what will happen. Bring us one! You dare risk everything for nothing. Greek. Every bill of yours has had a charismatic amendment, and yet there is no iron in it, a foundation has not been laid. What we saw was leaving relatives of the Latsi family, leaving now the Italians, left before the U.S. casinos. It leaves people even though you have done everything to them and even though you have in practice the support of Officerial Response in this. But why are you changing this law on strategic investment, this law that started on Chrysochoid - if I'm not mistaken - in 2010, continue on Samaras, SYRIZA, again on Georgia and now you? What for? And why do you continue to dismantle any regulatory framework, any restriction on these gifts to a few entrepreneurs? I'll just tell you. Evia: Incorporate 108 wind turbines into strategic investments. In the polypath Caristos more than 400 wind turbines, where you want to become 600, to do more 600 after. There were two conditions. One condition was that there should be more than 120 jobs. They say the papers will be produced on 108 wind turbines of 168 jobs, when about 60 jobs were created on the previous 400. Obviously, that's not the case. Such things bother you and that's why you disintegrate, constantly reduce these limits and make charges that have no limit. Strategic zero-budget investment, with zero-to-equity jobs produced. No limit, Minister. " Gifts" for possible only. What's the result? The day before yesterday, I made institutional intervention at the Central Archaeological Council on winds in Nice. After these interventions, the Central Archaeological Board was autopsied. What was the sense of political leadership? "Hey, cut over one or two wind turbines for the eyes of the world." Five wind turbines fall on the archaeological site and another 14 on the roads they need to build will dissolve the archaeological site. What is the reasoning, what was the sour? "But now it's a strategic investment, what do we do? Cut it off?' You solve the riddle of Constantine Mitsotakis, which said that the problem in Greece is ancient and forests. This is what you are answering today with this bill. Give land and water, that is to say, the nature of plundering it, whoever takes the investor's sign. Tell me: Who invests in a place without a legal framework, where anyone can do whatever they want? If you were to speak to serious businessmen, they would call you "nobody", because if someone goes to make his hotel in a place that has a landscape that has access to a beach and tomorrow someone comes and makes a bigger hotel in front of him, cuts off the landscape and cuts off the beach, if he is a serious person and doesn't make a scam, he won't make this investment, but he will go to a country that protects the landscape and protects the beach. Only mobsters will attract and give the local communities a loot. They are "photographic" all these devices in the case of Zakynthos. It was the so-called investment of the Katar Emir who bought in 14% of the island, 15,000 acres, except that we learned that Emir refuses anything to do with it, we learned from the Council of Plenipotentiaries that he seeks criminal prosecution of any civil servant and private person who took part in the sale, because he tells us that he who sold it had no square meter and that 15,000 acres were sold, the land of two hundred people, families, whole villages that woke up one day and didn't belong to them all of a sudden. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANAOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Now, because this is not going well despite your efforts, you bring the new plan next week, if I'm not mistaken, the "Wail S.A." where, on the excuse of saving the rusty boat in the shipwreck, you need to find money to support it so that it won't be lost and what did you do? You made a S.A. company. which will manage the coastline, the coastal zone, which is curiously in the temple area reaches up to hundreds of meters high - no problem, the sea rises - and has the right to expropriate the whole land around it. Of course, with this law that you brought us, Minister, it can be viewed as its own and expropriate and invested and anything that is 1,500 meters with her, all 14% of Zakynthos after all. But I will tell you the names that scare you: Agravia, Samothraki, Zagorohoria, Skouria, Petroleum, Greek, all that made you go back. Signatures: two licenses for windmills were cancelled. Samothraki, Zagorochoria, as well as Olympus, but also White Mountains and Taygetos and Smolicas, over where you wanted to put wind. Your Prime Minister was forced to go to the UN and then to announce Mr. Amyras in "Catherine" that they will be protected as road-free areas. The movements have done this. You didn't want to. That's how it's going to be with the rest, with every service you bring in here. He said the Minister and he will repeat that I am against mining - in mining I am - and in investment and I say all this. Are you in favour of investment, are you in favour of entrepreneurship, when with malls in Greek you will close the shops of all the municipalities of Athens on the coast? Are you in favour of entrepreneurship and invested wealth? Are you in favour of investment when the beaches your strategic investors will be in front of the rentals and accommodations built by people who live on these islands and on these beaches and will their customers not have access to and will business close? Are you in favour of investment when your destruction destroys tourism that is the main activity, PDO products, livestock farming, agriculture, honey? Are you in favour of investment and entrepreneurship? Bring us an indicator of how many investments close, how many companies close from your strategic investment. Bring us a marker. You want growth for five to ten families. Close the eye to everyone else and promise them an American dream, that they too will become rich. Beat them back and tell them "go", when the road opens is the road to becoming slaves in a few. It's an American feudal cutting dream. But I have a question. Against all this, I see SYRIZA and KINAL being reserved for the Commission. What makes you not condemn, do not unreservedly vote against this bill? Did you have the same thing to do? Is it because this is a worse version of what you had previously brought, instead of asking for apologies, to say 'we made a mistake bringing these laws'? You have the opportunity, you are opposition. Say it, 'we were wrong'. In practice, you support the logic of the bill and disagree with the details. That's why you kept the Commission. Very soon for the technocrats, I will say that the official position of Mera25 is that it forms part of the further commercialisation of knowledge and education, in the general plan of the Government for education and knowledge that recognises them as potential goods only, ideologically denying that knowledge is self-worthiness, eliminating its true role. As far as the amendments are concerned, I shall speak in my denunciation. I will of course highlight the amendment that the main point is to postpone the suspension of fines and penalties for arbitrary constructions, which the SYRIZA Government has done over and over again. Demolition inhibitors over and over. I invite you and we invite you to withdraw this bill. We invite you to withdraw this worldview that you impose that the world is for the few and the strong. We invite you to get the message from what happened in Keratsini and create a solidarity world, and if you can't, go home. PART25 is obviously voting against this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr Arseni. Before giving the floor to the President of the Greek Parliamentary Group Mr Velopoulos, the Deputy Minister of Education Mr. Syrigos will take the floor for three minutes to develop two provisions of the bill relating to his Ministry. Here, Mr. Syrigos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u15	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will refer to the Third Part of the bill concerning technobic companies and I will start with one specific example. A few days ago, I was visited by a team from the School of Chemical Engineering of Metsovio Polytechnics, which took second place in a European competition for ecological and innovative food products, Ecotrophelia Europe 2021. The children presented a salty cereal bar - all the cereal bars that exist are sweet - based on the village salad and various other cereal bars always based on known Greek flavors. Let's assume, then, that this group or a group of people were going to take advantage of this innovative product they made. The first question, then, is who could be involved in the craft company. Under the existing system, it could only be their teacher. Because today's law requires only those ICP members who have been appointed three years and researchers of research centres. In this case, however, there were postdoctoral students, postgraduate students, who could not participate. The new bill solves this. All these prerequisites are abolished and all those involved in creating knowledge and the results of research, i.e. members of the JEPs, as well as research staff and academic scholars and postdoctoral researchers, are involved. Problem two. How are intellectual property issues regulated by this bar? On the basis of the existing framework, there was no specific arrangement as to who the beneficiary of these intellectual property rights was. Now, under this law exclusive competence is conferred on bodies, which by rules define all aspects of intellectual property. A third problem that would be present today is who they decide. At the moment, on the basis of the legislation in force, the university consortium decides. The Aristotle University is sixty-seven people. Imagine this multi-faceted instrument, which meets once a month, must be decided on a craftsman's company. It changes the framework radically and with the new law it decides on the fewer and more flexible democracies that can meet at any time and so decision-making is facilitated. Another problem that so far existed was the time limit for decision-making on the establishment of a technobic. They took these young people, these young people, the young scientists submitted their proposal, but there was no time limit within which someone had to decide. In the new law the establishment or non-company of a technician shall be issued not later than four months after the application has been made, otherwise it shall be deemed that the application has been approved if there is a positive recommendation from the competent body. Another problem that exists so far is the rejection of the request. To date a request may be rejected without explaining why it is rejected. By the new law, any rejection of the request for the setting up of a technocratic company by the competent bodies must be justified. At the same time, it is also imperative that researchers who have invented the patent move quickly. Today there is no time limit for setting up a craftsman's company, and now a time limit is set, which means that within six months researchers have to decide what to do with their invention. Another major problem which, at least in the committee, was the question of whether the researcher is developing. One brake in the whole procedure was that researchers, especially if they are members of a LPIS, could not evolve if they participated in the Technoblast Company. So when they were going to choose between the two, they usually chose the CPI position. Now they are given the opportunity to develop internally. In this way, then, the researcher's development continues to continue properly. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Mr President, I would like a little tolerance. Another major problem was how these people, what laboratories use, what the facilities are, what the means they will use. With today's legislation there was incredible ambiguity as to what is happening with these inventions and how the research organisation is related to these inventions. The new law introduces the conclusion of a contract between the research organisation, whether it is a research centre or a research university, and the researchers and the technicians' company and details all aspects of the operation of the technicians, how the offices use them, how laboratories use the machinery, logos, trademarks, everything. And by law there is a minimum percentage of 1% of the technoblast's gross revenues. Last point is that in case these researchers want to cooperate with another research organisation so far there has not been the relevant framework. This law introduces for the first time the participation of researchers from different research bodies. In conclusion, all the issues that have so far been fragmentary and incomplete in five different legislative texts are regulated in a single text and we set the basic conditions for the effective and efficient use of the results of scientific research carried out within the scientific bodies of our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, too, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcement of Wednesday's Question Time of December 1st, which reads as follows: A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure). 1. The 233/29.11.2021 topical question by MP Laconia of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Stavros Arachovitis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, entitled 'Funding Basic Aid 2021'. The President of the Greek Parliamentary Group, Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u17	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today it has proved once again that we are living in the country of irrationality. We are a country in which we are issuing our parents and grandparents and do not give them pensions, the New Democracy Minister, for over three years. We are delayed in giving them what they are entitled to, when they are retired. And today I heard by the Greek Prime Minister today a statement which is really a surprise, in which he insists that, from 15 January, anyone who has not been vaccinated will pay a fine of EUR 100. And I ask. Avenge our fathers, avenge our parents? Although in their pensions you were consistent, I accept that here you are doing something and choosing a route of your own. But only a twisted mind could advise the Greek Prime Minister to do that. It's perversion. I'm saying it straight away. It's hate, it's revenge against our grandparents, our grandparents, our mothers, our fathers. That's the reality. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Here comes the rhetorical question, of course. Will you cut the benefits of the illegal immigrants who are not vaccinated? Because Mr. Metarakis told us yesterday at the RES. Or the ERT, I'm not sure. He said that we do not have any dead or cases in illegal immigrants - refugees or immigrants, as you say - so they have total immunity. If Mr. Metarakis considers that the nonsense he possesses is nonsense to some at the choice of the coronary, he is wrong. You are once again conducting a policy with the pandemic, gentlemen of the New Democracy. We live in the country of irrationality, really. We're second on the planet to strict measures. Did you know that? Two on the planet with strict measures! You've become authoritarian. You want to be imposed at any cost. You want to convince? I understand that. I don't know if you're right or wrong. History will show whether this story is real or if you are right or wrong those who disagree. You want to convince? Cut off, gentlemen of the New Democracy, Mr. Ministers, the ministers that represent doctors on the video windows. Cut off the doctors who pretend to be politicians in the video windows. You don't fall that way. Cut them all off. The only thing that this government can convince is authoritarianity and hatred. That's what we've been talking about for a long time. Gentlemen of the New Democracy, you have happily failed the issue of pandemic, government policy management! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] So we live in the country of irrationality. You want proof? We have a supreme judge in the PSE. Where have you seen it? National Broadcasting Council having a judge - hear a judge at the PSE - ignorant in television knowledge, monitor with its decisions pluralism and pluralism. We have people in the PSE that people don't know themselves what they mean. They admitted it publicly. We have people in the PSE, like his President, who said that he is being paid and sitting. Country of irrationality! We have the ERR which, with misleading questions, imposes fines. Country of irrationality! We have the ESS that, while it has to control the polling companies, it never controls them. Country of irrationality! We have the PSE that never imposes fines on the big channels that serve and serve the government. Country of irrationality! We're really the country of irrationality. Parts compete for the debt Olympics. Greece has taken the gold medal with debt of 400 billion and goes up. World debt champion, our country. The New Democracy has the gold, too. The bankrupt New Democracy Party, which will save the country, owes over 350 million euros. And PASOK silver, with 300 million of the party's debts too. They're in debt. They're changing VDUs, they're not changing VDUs. We're a country of irrationality. In a party that bankrupt the country, PASOK, yesterday ERT gave candidate leaders the opportunity to speak. I didn't get it. Tell me another country where state television gives time to a party, let's say to the KIC - well they don't change a leader anyway - because the Central Committee will change a leader, present seven - eight people alone - and I will say it now - because you in the New Democracy want to co-operate with KINAL and with SYRIZA again. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] It's your agony and I'm ashamed to say it. And we're talking about a party that even gave monkey pensions, borrowed it, bankrupt the country along with New Democracy and SYRIZA. And ERT gives time for internal party elections. Okay. If this is a serious state, if this is a serious country, I have another view. In the country where the ERT last began calling MPs of the Greek Solution. The candidates of PASOK, however, are all in the parade of parade parade parade parade parade parade parade by the parties and by the ERT we are all paying for, and above all - gross injustice - through PPC, to pay ERT by the Greek. To abolish that, too. So we live in the country of irrationality. I hear the Ministers and all the Ministers talking about investment over the last few decades. They bring every two-three months and a bill of investment. Are we talking about investments in a country with overtax? Are we talking about investment in a country where tax agents have broken the companies and are head hunters? When in other countries taxation is minimal, are we talking about investment? I will now tell you that Greece has become non-industrial and it is good that the new ministers should also know the facts of the previous governments. In 1958 Greece built the first European car. His name was MOD - BIOPLASTIC. He closed in 1977 on New Democracy. He produced cars that Europeans bought. Do you know why he's closed? He's closed for the New Democracy tax law. Overtaxation. You shut down the factory. NAMCO by the Cologne brothers has proposed a revolutionary vehicle for his time with two-cylinder airborne engine and has not been approved by the government. These are your governments! He produced the famous PONY. He sold the know-how to a Bulgarian factory which produced cars, on the basis of the company's own license. NISSAN TEOCAR was founded by Theocharakis in 1978. It closed in 1995 - let Simitis be well - because of tax law again and sold to Russia. NEORRION from the French brothers. In 1972 they planned cars with batteries and autonomy - electrically, the obsession of Mr. Mitsotakis - 130 km. He didn't get approval from the Greek government. Production's stopped. MEVEA was founded in 1960. They worked with the production of a tricycle truck with great success. They worked with England. The New Democracy tax law shut down the factory. But they continue to operate in England and produce tricycles. MAVA. The designer Michael designs a model of light multipurpose vehicles called FARMA. In 1984 it builds the Greek FARMA S jeep. At the same time, the law changes and closes the factory. Zacharopoulos ABEU produces BALKANIA 4x4 jeep. In 1975 he designs and manufactures Mercedes Benz 3,200 cubic metres. PASOK's new 1984 tax law stops its production. In 1975 he constructed the light jeep AUTOTRACTOR. He closed the factory in 1995 with the PASOK law. PETROS PETROPOULOS AEBE was founded in Thessaloniki by Petropoulou in 1922. He constructed FORD 1920, WILLYS INTERNATIONAL 1930. The agricultural law changed in 1984-1985 and production stopped. Since the end of 1990 the company has been dealing only with imports and has been selling cars. PANCAR operated from 1968 to 1992. Draw and build BUGY. In 1992 he presented the ERM vehicle. He didn't get approval from the Greek government and shut down the factory. In 1977, it was the time when the New Democracy imprisoned the man who licensed him to take oil out in Keri and captured him by order of Everett and stopped oil extraction in Zakynthos, Keri. I gave you some examples of how criminals were all those who ruled the country that deindustrialized the country, which we don't have a torch running. These are examples that exist, not theoretically, of Ministers. Now, let me tell you why you're talking about growth. Do you know Chuchescu's Romania, Mr. Papathanasiou? Well done. Romania, therefore, has spent the last four to five years on GDP. You know that? You know how? So listen. In Romania to set up a company is a 1% tax on the turnover tax. Setting up is also done by e-mail. In Greece of bureaucrats, scratches and all of this, it takes a lot of oil to work on the mechanism. That's the only way to get growth. No, bring the paper, take the paper, bring the other investment, bring the accountant, bring the tax collector, please study this. If you don't have this study, bring a substudy. If you don't have the sub-study, bring the other paper from the clerk. If it's not the clerk, he'll be in the director. But the principal is licensed. You'll be waiting ten days. The clerk will come and get it to the warden. This is your state! Stupid state! And you're talking about investments. We've entered 176 billion debts in the memoirs. Today we have 400 billion and you're talking to me about growth? The government wasted 43 billion loan in two years. He didn't build a single ID. At the same time, accuracy is scoring. The government continues to defoliate the program. People are obsessed! They're obsessed! When you have increased energy and basic products, it is assumed that your consumer goods will increase from 20% to 40%. Businesses cannot be competitive. They'll all go bankrupt. Precisely devours the Greek. The Greek can't handle it, he can't get a piece of bread for his child. The solution is to reduce VAT on basic items and energy and reduce excise duty! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] The government realizes that inflation will increase at the same time. It's for granted. Workers have lost 30% of their purchasing power. This will be transferred to the market, ladies and gentlemen. He won't be able to buy the other product. Don't you understand? You don't understand what's coming in New Democracy? Tsunami's coming! He's on his way! Food crisis is coming! It is a shameful cost for small companies. A small industry paid 19,000 euros a power bill last year. Now he's been asked to pay 41,000 euros. How's this company going to get out, gentlemen? But you're all comfortable in here. You don't deal with the problems of the world. We're very comfortable, too, anyway. But you don't know what business means, what work. Do we want a company to remain competitive when you have the most expensive current in Europe? How will this company remain competitive? How will it become competitive, developmental? How will it reinvest funds to create a better cigarette? At 3.1% below is income from the insurance funds. It's all humiliating! The numbers don't lie. The New Democracy and the Government lie that constantly leads the world and Greece to the cliff. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] All the privatizations that have taken place and will take place by 2024 are estimated at 11 billion - 11 billion! - as much as about half of the deficit. Member States shall notify the Commission and the other Member States of the Can one believe that with such bills the flow of history to the development of the country will change? Auctions: I am learning today that six hotels in Mykonos, Corfu, Crete, Athens are auctioned! And you're talking about tourist development! You have remained in the logic of '70 and '80 and '90 put all this tourism with the sandal and with the sock the hole, where the spectators, the German tourists, came here to leave their money. We do not need such tourism. At least copy successful models, copy Portugal. Portugal has achieved the incredible event of having good quality tourism and a great influx of foreign exchange. That's not even what you're capable of. That's not it. And because we are talking about economy, I will say the following about the feed we produce: Greece has some feed industries, because we are talking about rural development. It's not just VAT. We even feed the Skopje. We import beetonite, glue, that is, from Skopje, a material so that the feed can be produced in the form of candy or "macaroni" as it is called. That's what Greece has. There's betonites in Greece. Why do we have to introduce Skopje? I'm telling you with very simple words. You're committing crimes to the economy. The warning from the Commission, Minister, came a few days ago. I have here all the study of the Commission. Here it is. I'll testify to her for the Minutes. What does it say about the recruitments in the State? He called on Greece to be wise to fiscal policy as it has a high public debt and as New Democracy continuously increases the wage costs of the party's praetorian legions, who hired them with the Greek people's money so that any Prime Minister or Minister can do his job. You're giving 5,000 euros to the mass media for the pandemic. It's embarrassing what you're doing. It's a disgrace! It's an amendment, really, hell, dork! It is incomprehensible that you have brought an amendment that you are acquitting your ministers, that you are acquitting everyone with retroactive power. I heard this morning. Aren't we a little embarrassed? Here you have reached the point in a pre-seminar to expose your Prime Minister. In Yannina on a pre-sale, you brought a young man who came from America, he says, back to work in Greece. Brain Drain! Halima's fairy tales! His son "Vikos" was. And you're not ashamed of it? You humiliated the Greek Prime Minister! That's not happening anywhere, not in an African country. Not even in Zimbabwe. They're incomprehensible! I was listening to my friend Georgiadis, your Minister, saying that Thessaloniki will become Hollywood, they will come to make big films. That's where all Bulgarians work, you know. They don't work Greeks. 90% of the employees in the companies are Bulgarians. And at the reception and everything. Hollywood pragmatism, government proclaiming not about the economy, society and politics. We have a government of constant crimes in energy. Mitsotakis and Dendias on the line of all governments: not to mine natural gas, not to extract natural gas when Cyprus returns and is asleep in Greece. So listen to the international report delivered to the Cypriot Government. We got it. The total is seventeen trillion cubic feet, equivalent to three billion barrels. All the value of the deposits in Cyprus is EUR 417 billion. Our country's twice as high. In the exploitation of these gas fields, 12 thousand people will be employed in Cyprus in the primary sector, thirty-six thousand in the secondary for thirty-five years. Forty-eight thousand families will get bread in Cyprus from the extraction of natural gas. And you have a Greek Prime Minister and Mr. Tentacles that cancel energy in the country, which is money from the Greek people, which we can give perspective and growth in the country by extracting gas and oil. We really have, as a Greek Solution, a bitterness for the Greek people who do not understand the lies they keep telling them. We are the voice of reason. We are the voice of truth. We will continue to be the voice of the Greeks in the Greek Parliament. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Despite your efforts to dismantle the word of the Greek Solution, you always copy it. This is how I learned in German, Mrs Alexopoulou, lately, that after two years Hatzidakis went to the region and gave a solution to the problem, and we have been shouting for a whole year on this subject. We can have cheap electricity, ladies and gentlemen. Maybe our grandfather in the village and our father have a cheap current. The Greek may not be afraid to open his air conditioner and cool. Mummy may not think of opening up the radiator and keeping her child cold. All this can be done if the New Democracy follows the voice of reason, the voice of Greek Solution. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] We have deposits, we have gas, we can mining! And it is wonderable - to close - how the Greek Prime Minister said from the Step of Parliament again lies. The Greek Prime Minister told us that the lignite is more expensive - because we have fines, he says, etc. - in relation to the current we produce. We pay 270 euros when it's 150- with the fines - for lignite. And you sell it to the Germans. You should know that. It is a disgrace to Greece that this government is incapable of lying and becoming dangerous day after day more. We tell the Greeks that what we do, we do it for the Greeks. Greeks are the only reason that does what the Greek Solution does and we will continue to do it every day. We will continue to fight for Greece and the Greeks, because for us it is Greece, first it is the Greeks. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] We do not say "only", we say "first", because we believe in God, we believe in our God. So ask God - they say in my village - to move a mountain, but catch a shovel. The shovel to move the mountain of old communism is the Greek Solution, it's the struggle, it's the effort, because we learned to work! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] For some people, I don't know if they've learned to work or just work the Greek people. And I'm closing up with a saying of Richus, and I'm addressing the New Republic of Constantine Karamanlis, their lord. "In these marble bad rusts it doesn't work." Understood!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. The Minister for Development and Investment Mr Dimas has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u19	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will make a very brief comment. If, in fact, we do love and want to protect our grandparents and grandparents, our fathers and our mothers, as has already been said in the Chamber, the first thing we do is to urge them, with arguments, to go and to be vaccinated. And in a national effort there are not half the words, half the commitments. We demand that all the parliamentary parties support this national campaign, because if we are not vaccinated, then we are all at risk. And that is something we must not forget. On the contrary, we expect a much greater responsibility from the political parties. But now we're going to the issue of the bill. I'll talk about Part III. I would like to tell you that until now there has been no clear institutional framework for technobularies, spin-off research centres and universities. A year and a half ago we started together with the Ministry of Education an effort to see how we can create a clear institutional framework for the operation of universities and research centres for technocrats. We addressed the National Council for Research and Innovation, the ESETEC. After discussions, which lasted for over a year, through the Sectoral Intellectual Property and Technology Transfer Scientific Council, the ESRB has come up with a text in which there was a synthesis of researchers, from ICP members, from marketmen, from many different academic institutions, and we now have a consensus in a very important bill, in an important section of the research organisations for the operation of technocrats. I mention this because I would like to emphasise the importance of public consultation with stakeholders, with those directly involved. We believe it is an attempt, an optimal practice in the part of the legislation. And let me once again thank the Step of the House publicly all and those who helped us get the result today. Why, however, was it necessary to regulate the technicians' companies? In international practice, the craftsmen, spin-offs, are companies established in research organisations to develop and exploit commercial intellectual property or scientific knowledge, produced by the researchers of the research organisation concerned and to develop innovative products and services. In cases where researchers have developed inventions or innovation that has significant market dynamics, technicians companies are the best vehicle to make effective and profitable for researchers and the research organisation the commercial exploitation of their research. In Greece, our researchers are developing significant inventions and are producing international leading scientific knowledge, with significant potential for commercial use on the international market. However, it needs impetus and support so that inventions, research and scientific knowledge are transformed into new products, new services and new benefits for society. That is why it was necessary to strengthen and reform the institutional framework that regulates companies - technobically. Chapter III of the draft law regulates for the first time in a detailed and coherent manner the establishment of the company - technician of research organisations. Although such a central institution for the use of research has remained unregulated to date, with considerable ambiguities, with sporadic provisions, often contradictory, and the institutional framework itself is an obstacle to their development. Neither was terminology clear, as different terms were used in legislation at times, such as, in particular, the term "intensive - knowledge company". Clear or incomplete institutional framework for an institution, means that in practice it will never be possible for companies - artificial ones - to be created and developed. The unclear institutional framework has so far led to malfunctions or misuse of the institution. These, precisely, pathogens are cured by chapter III of the bill. The challenges in creating this new institutional framework were important. Firstly, to date ambiguity about the institution itself. It is precisely because of the unambiguous arrangements, the shortages and the different deadlines that were not common sense and the starting point for everyone as to what it is intended and how a company - a technobetic one - is organised. Secondly, the specificities of the individual scientific fields and the different conditions for exploiting research by field, such as differences between life sciences and information technology in terms of the maturity of the research and the cost of product development. Flexible arrangements are needed to ensure that crucial elements of the establishment and operation of the company, for example in assessing the intellectual property exploited and the price of rights paid by the company, are regulated on a case-by-case basis to take account of the specificities of the scientific fields. Thirdly, the risk of the creation of viable companies. A technician, if sustainable, can be an effective and profitable vehicle so that the research can pass through the laboratory on to the market. However, in order to operate effectively and efficiently a technology company, such as any company producing innovation, a commercial risk assessment, a market analysis, a detailed business plan and a significant investment in economic resources and human time is required. The decision to set up a company must therefore have taken these requirements into account. The institutional framework is required to provide for procedures and set conditions for business planning and for the appropriate investment of resources and human-time researchers in the companies to be established. After all, only if the companies - technicians have the fundamental prospects of sustainability will the institutional purpose for which they are founded be achieved. Fourthly, the different way of organizing, but also the different degrees of readiness and maturity of research organisations to carry out research activities. The procedure for establishing and content of the relevant decisions and legal acts - contracts cannot be uniform for all bodies. It is necessary to allow research organisations to provide for more specific or different arrangements on certain issues. On the other hand, we need a weighting of flexicurity with legal security. For the company’s viability on a number of critical issues, it is necessary when approving its establishment or its legal relationship with the organisation that they have been clearly regulated, for example, under the terms of intellectual property rights. The company’s investors and associates require legal certainty. The institutional framework should, in general, contribute to legal security covering incomplete and vague instruments of approval or contracts with the Agency by law. This draft law sets out in detail and clear terms all the key parameters for the establishment and operation of technocrat companies. In particular. Firstly, establishing clearly and precisely which companies will be companies - technoblastists by resolving ambiguities over years, because to date it is not clear or what purpose this institution serves. The institution is now determined on the basis of the status of founders and their business object. Let me say that this is where we have also taken note of the comments from the political parties of the Civilian Representation. We've further specified the definition. I read: ‘Spin-off is now designated as a capital company established by academic or research staff of the country's research organisations for the purpose of exploiting the research results and knowledge produced by the individual on his own or in cooperation with third parties, natural or legal persons of the national or foreign state in the context of his or her activity and with the research organisations’. This is added as a legislative improvement at the end of Article 52 of the plan, i.e. after the case g. the case is added, so we define exactly as we have said, the craftsman. Secondly, putting the same researchers who have developed the research to be exploited at the forefront, defining their rights and responsibility, as well as the conflicts of interest that they have to avoid. The law introduces specific rules to avoid conflicts of interest and recognises the need to regulate them. However, it is a question that the research organisation will in particular regulate in its regulation the cases of conflicts of interest and the obligations to avoid them. Thirdly, by identifying the role of the research organisation, the approvals it needs to grant, the discretion, but not the obligation to participate, and the rights and benefits granted to the company. Fourthly, by clarifying the procedure for approving the establishment of a company by researchers, by simplifying the presentations of the procedure already applied to certain agencies, an approval decision instead of more, clarification of responsibilities and more. Fifthly, by introducing the institution of the contract of techno-blast for clear and detailed regulation of the relationship between the organisation and the company through which, among other things, the exploitation of each intellectual property and knowledge developed in the organisation will be granted. But this is where I want to stand. The establishment of the contract is of crucial importance both for the protection of the public interest of the research organisation, but also for the company's particular private interests, in particular for legal security against third parties. For the research organisation, the contract is a critical institution, because it will define the exchange of the techno-blast towards the research organisation and also the other rights and obligations of the organisation towards the techno-blasting company. The institution of the contract of craftsman is, in essence, regulated and the financial participation of the organisation in the company. Economic participation is not necessary in the form of acquisition of shares or shares, but may be rootalties. [[At this point is the end of the speaker's speaking time bell.]] I'm gonna need some time, Mr. President. A craftsman's contract shall determine the price of rights of exploitation for intellectual property and scientific knowledge and any other exchanges for the benefits of the organisation. For the company, the contract is a critical institution, because it creates legal security against potential investors, associates, customers, as it is clear from the establishment of the company, what commitments the technician has over the organisation and what benefits he receives, however. The term of the contract, defined as up to 10 years, also marks the duration of the contract for the company. With the termination or termination of the contract, the property of the craftsman for the company is also withdrawn and its application to the law and regulations governing the company and the participating researchers is therefore withdrawn. It is important to point out that the law obviously recognises the possibility of an early solution to the contract. The property of the technician may end early for the company if there is disagreement or any other reason provided for in the contract. However, the draft law also sets out a minimum necessary content of the contract, which includes the licensing or transfer of intellectual property rights or the transfer of rights to research results and knowledge, the price of exploitation rights and how it is paid, the concession of use of facilities, the concession of use of organisation and company, information obligations, confidentiality obligations, conflict of interest commitments, conditions of early solution. Sixth, providing for the possibility and conditions of participation of investors in the share capital of the same company. Seventhly, covering regulatory possible deficiencies or negligence in terms of approval decisions and contracts in cases of incomplete regulation by the research organisations themselves to prevent any legal uncertainty and to achieve safety. But there is also the intellectual property research provision. Allow me here and here to stress that the establishment of craftsmen's companies requires clarity and legal certainty regarding the intellectual property regime and, in particular, patents, so-called patents. The law on this matter refers to the regulations of the bodies which have regulated it. However, it clarifies the scheme for those organisations that have not regulated it and stipulates that if the regulation does not specify it, then the inventions of researchers are considered to be service inventions and therefore the full beneficiary of the relevant intellectual property patents is the research organisation with an obligation to return benefits to the researcher. Eighth, it is unclear to date legislation on research and marketing. Researchers can now participate as founders and managers of technobic companies. Artificial founders, partners may be university professors, research centres researchers, research staff or academic staff of each grade, doctoral and postdoctoral researchers. The term ‘researcher’ in Article 52 of the Act is defined in the broadest possible sense and covers the entire range of persons carrying out research within a research organisation, enabling research and academic staff of each grade to establish a technician company. The range of research that can be exploited in business is widened, but the range of those who can take the initiative or even lead to a commercial use effort is widened. It therefore opens the way for young researchers to choose the path of business use of research after their first research steps and to give new dynamics to the research organisation and new prospects in their own future. The way to exploit doctoral and post-doctoral research through technocrat companies is opened. However, the question is also finally being dealt with for companies that are the object of many research organisations. As regards the terms of participation of researchers in the company, Article 57 of the Law resolves institutional ambiguities of years, gives incentives and facilitates institutional researchers. Mostly it acknowledges that a researcher may be not only a partner but also an executive member. In particular, he may be a researcher as a partner, be a researcher as an executive management member or be employed by the researcher in the technician's company with a fee. The law confirms the notion that the researcher does not only carry out research into research, but that it is equally crucial to exploiting research into the economy for society. In conclusion, technicians do not constitute a business vehicle parallel to the research activity but develop and complement academic, research activity. They give a way out of the intellectual property that the researcher develops for the research organisation. It is for this reason that the support for the company's work is part of the job of a researcher. It is laid down that the approval decision establishing the company will provide that the investigator may devote part of his term of office to the support of the technoblaster without having to obtain permission from the conduct of his duties.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u20	Complete, please, Mr. Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u21	In conclusion, therefore, with regard to the draft law in question, the introduced new institutional framework for technocrat companies sets out the conditions for operating an effective institution in which they have been taken into account and weighed down all the critical issues of the public interest of the research organisations and of the private interests of the researchers and the companies being set up. It is an institutional framework shaped with a view to the future that will give impetus to integrate more effectively into the economy and with mutual benefits for all the research and scientific knowledge developed in the universities and research centres of the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, too. We are now entering the list of speakers with the first speaker Mr Efstratios Simopoulos from New Democracy. And immediately thereafter Socrates Famelos from SYRIZA if Mr Varoufakis has accepted in the meantime that he will speak. Because there have been too many speakers, if you want us not to go at midnight, I would ask that the time be respected. Here, Mr Simopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this marble rust does not work, but each of us obviously translates the concept of bad rust politically. I'm coming to the bill now. Today, I am pleased to see that in my speech, two issues which are different aspects of the same currency. What's the currency? The government function. What do I mean? Obviously this bill and the amendment to the Meteora of the Municipality of Paul Melas, the Ministry of Environment and Energy, Article 4. With the bill on strategic investment and technocrats, the Government and the Ministry of Development certify their continued effort to attract investment and, of course, to create good new jobs. With my amendment, on the other hand, it shows that the theoretically small issues, which are large for thousands of our fellow citizens, are also at the heart of government interest. What greater proof of this than the amendment on which the Ministry of the Environment and Energy and the Ministry of Interior cooperated? Mr President, the country has the opportunity after the memorial and pandemic period to enter orbit unprecedented development. It is not only the resources of the Development Fund that are supporting this, it is also the attractive investment for Greece that has been creating a climate for two years with constant government intervention and reforms. Such a reform is also a draft law that reduces the limits for integration into the system of strategic investment, and consolidates the procedures and places them under the supervision of a central administration. At first sight, one can argue that decentralisation is limited. The answer is, however, one and easy. Anyone who has the slightest knowledge of the way the licensing system for environmental and urban projects operates today will welcome the regulations. I have even a recent example of investment that, in order to change the use of land in a special urban plan, together with the strategic environmental impact study, the approval of a geological suitability study and the Presidential Decree, seems to require more than four years. Is that what you want, Opposition gentlemen? Not obviously. And that is why it must be possible for the specialist under conditions to be imposed on the general public. And this is where we disagree very much. I also hear that strategic investment must serve the country's infamous development planning. You cannot understand that investors are aware of our comparative advantages, and of course they want to invest, and we must obviously help them in these investments. There is no need for Soviet press or development plans or natural development conferences. I also think it is very important to take advantage of the gypsy, first and foremost knowing of the current legislative framework, which actually makes the investments in question in practice a non-existent one. In a country with such coastlines, the idea of ideoscopy and, in particular, the sarcasm of the public sector, savages any investment in the cavalry. I would also like to make a special reference to the Thermaikos. The use of the coastal front of the Thermaikos can be a very large resource for the wider region. I also welcome the 30-day limit to examine an administrative act which establishes the draft law. But then what happens, Minister? Entrepreneurs must go to the next. Or will they be hostages of command with terrain that will rock the time? So that's very important. We put thirty days, but then we go to the next stage of self-righteousness? We put it for free. I also welcome the strengthening of the process of controlling the implementation of the investment projects by sworn auditors, as well as the activation of the Register of Certified Evaluators of the Ministry of the Environment. Everywhere the public has to work with private individuals. The success of the institution of the Building Controller and the Energy Inspector point the way. But the absorption of the Recovery Fund is also necessary, and that is why the introduction of the concept of emblematic investment is absolutely necessary. As are the arrangements for strengthening the expansion of strategic investment. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm going to need some more time, Mr. President, although I'm not used to it. The opposition spoke of photographic devices. I personally do not see why, even so, it is not to resolve matters in an interventionist way or even individual investment. With regard to the reduction of the limits for the defoliation zone, I note that most of Parliament's wings welcomed the regulation. I also note the participation of the state-owned company ENVIRONMENTS SA in the implementation of the infrastructures concerned. Mr President, I also have the agreement of the majority of the House on this section. The relevant legislative framework has been lacking so far and in conjunction with the actions of the Ministry of Development, I believe that we will give a great boost to linking research to entrepreneurship. We also need to move on to smaller investments, however, which are the largest volume of job creation in the country, Minister. We cannot leave hundreds of Greek businesses hostage to bureaucratic claws. I believe that the new development law will move in a similar direction. And I now come to an issue where there are disagreements. I stress that unfortunately very rightly from the regions it has remained possible to examine only one million investment files. The complaints from investors and those who are active in this area for how they operate are too much. The same is unfortunately true for the corresponding address of the Ministry of Macedonia - Thrace. At a time when we need investment, the measure is right. If they improve their functionality, they will only have to be reviewed. And a minute, Mr President, to say a few words about the amendment to the Meteoros region of the Municipality of Paul Mela.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u24	Let us finish, Mr Colleague, because we have many speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u25	It concerns the possibility, at the request of the citizens or residents of the Municipality of Paul Mela in Thessaloniki, of being submitted to the municipality within an exclusive period of one year, to be granted to them by decision of the municipal council an area with certain conditions relating to the first residence, to hold it for over twenty years and, of course, to legalise it in accordance with the Act on arbitrarities. I believe that the opposition at least will vote for this amendment. So that there is no misunderstanding, when I say photographic layout, I mean a provision which may relate to certain investments. We obviously also need to resolve specific investment issues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u26	The President of the Group of the European People's Party, Mr Varoufakis, will now be given the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, yes, indeed after people the bankruptcy of 2010 has severely affected investment. We are now in the thirteenth year of negative investment. Investments, which in 2007 in net figures, net investments, were around 30 billion, reached their nadir in 2014 - not in 2015, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, but in 2014 - at minus 9.6 billion. Even now despite the triumphs of successive governments that we are filled with investors, even now gross investments in 2020, according to ELSTAT figures, were 24.8 billion in comparison with the 60, which was in 2007. Nets continue to be negative in 2020 at minus 1.5 billion. Yes, ladies and gentlemen of the government, there is a need for a strategy to speed up investment and, of course, for strategic investment. But - I do not think we should disagree on that - it is important for which investments, from whom, for what purpose, integrated into what development plan, what quality and what costs for society and the environment. We need patient, serious investors, not predators and predators. The patient investors who come to join a plan, a sustainable development plan, two things calculate before making the move to come to the country whether they are Greek or foreign to invest: one is accounting costs, as is normal, i.e. wages, taxes, transport. But there is also the second package of non-accounting costs and benefits, such as bureaucracy, corruption, opacity and the existence of a social ecosystem, a lively open society in which they want to integrate themselves and the employees who will be recruited. Your bill is trying, you say it aims to improve the balance of non-accounting benefits and non-accounting costs. We are voting against and voting against because it does the opposite. In the altar of the interests of the most predatory part of the oligarchy it will make Greece even less attractive to investors and to the investments needed by the place. The current regime, not what you, which has been in place for many years, is more or less based on the same logic of Golden Visa's policy, if you remember, or the policy of licensing television stations. In other words, the only thing that counts is the pit, how much money it brings. I'm not saying money matters. But the law is only the law of money. No quality characteristics, just like the licensing of television stations. There is no procedure to determine the quality of television broadcasts by the canalarch. Likewise, in Golden Visa you do not ask the question of the 200,000-300,000 that the foreigner will bring to get a Schengen visa what will do with them. Will it be productive investment, will it create any jobs, or will it get some apartments to rent them into a problem in the social fabric of the societies of Athens, Patras, Chania? Here, for the issue of strategic investment, it either produces plastic bags at the plant that will be built either machinery for ICUs or green hydrogen production technologies that we need, the only measure is the total amount. This applies before you. It's not just Cretan for you. The quality of the environment, as to whether the value of these companies, these investments, will be in favour of an added value that will be left at the site. All this is outside radar of your bill, not part of a development framework, in a context of sustainable development. So we see the memorial tripartiteism, because it started with PASOK, New Democracy and SYRIZA, in all its greatness. I'm sorry, colleagues of SYRIZA, but you didn't do anything too. The n.e.c. 4608/2019 all you did was left discounts to the strategic investors. Where the investment should be 100 million to be considered a strategic type 1 investor, you did 75. For the pressurised type 2 investor, you took it from 40 to 30. Quality characteristics of integration in a sustainable development framework none. But let me come to today's bill, which introduces new demons. You have a new category, ladies and gentlemen of the government, the emblematic investments of great importance. What's this package about? It concerns the interconnection of large, supposedly, investments for three things: Firstly, funding them through the Recovery Fund. In other words, these investors will gain access to 17.8 billion of the aid from the Recovery Fund and 12.7 million of the loans that Mr Mitsotakis had in here said he would not get - anyway changed his mind. And let us not forget, ladies and gentlemen, that the Greek Government has charged 10 billion, which should be returned to the European Commission - do not forget this - and the 12.7 which will be charged by the State to take them privately through the banking system, which, of course, means that small and medium-sized enterprises are out of place, because you know very well that no small- and medium-sized enterprises have access to banking. Minimal! The first is that. Connect emblematic investments of exceptional importance to the balance of the Recovery Fund. We've been talking about the Recovery Fund before. I'll move on to the other. You're talking about state employment subsidies. And of course you are talking about a fast track that aims to eliminate the archaeological and forest service. Now, the archaeological service is replaced by Mrs. Mendoni, the forest service, I don't know who will replace it, someone at the Ministry. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not disagree. Merra25 does not disagree that authorisation procedures by the forestry service, particularly from the archaeological service and town planning, are torture both for citizens and for businesses and that they must be speeded up. There must be an improvement in procedures. Obviously, I do have to. However, if what you are saying now about large investment is true, why is it not for small businesses? Why do you introduce exceptions only to the emblematic investments of exceptional importance? Why not for SMEs and startups? If fast track procedures ensure society, our forests, archaeological sites, if the social set is guaranteed through the procedures of your bill today by predators, then why do not all the small and medium-sized and start up into this safe society? I'll tell you why. Because you're not getting anything. Because the only goal is for the oligars to have free money, free land and free water. As with the 23 billion forced by EUROSTAT to incorporate into the public debt in favour of the Grabular Funds for red loans, so now the state is actually - what is being done with the Recovery Fund - a further 20 billion from the European Union, archaeological sites and forests are being set aside, not to say they are being trampled, for the sake of these 'harks'. We vote against because this bill is another anti-development bill, a bill that extends the colonial model Fraport everywhere. The colonial model Fraport, take the land, take the money from the European Union to make your own monopolistic businesses, now it won't even stop where the forests start, where archaeological sites start. Ladies and gentlemen, to speak the language you understand as people who believe in markets and competition, this is the definition of unfair competition, as small and medium-sized businessmen and Start ups will not have any of these privileges, which the bill gives you to the "hards" of the oligarchy. The sharks that the last thing they will bring to this country are sustainable development. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, it is obvious from your bill that you are not interested in real strategic investments of patient and honest investors. If you were interested you would introduce measures, incentives to improve the social and environmental ecosystem, which you are now poisoning - both 'yes' and 'e'. The serious investors are not filmed by countries that actually lay a rug on them as if it were bananas. Serious investors are filmed by ecosystems of many small Euro-companies, which are planted in live open societies with transparency and parity. That's where serious investors go. You are the ones who drive the major investors away, as with great importance you are poisoning the country's social and environmental ecosystem. How do you poison it? Three ways. Firstly, I mentioned it again, with the unfair competition of your current bill, which ultimately benefits the triangle of the Greek vermouda, which is cement, gambling and funds, funds. It is no coincidence that recently in the name of the acceleration of the investment strategy you have passed a photographic amendment so that Parnitha would download the casino and go to Maroussi. The last thing Marousi needed was for you to think about Parnitha’s casino. The second way you poison the ecosystem that would be a magnet for serious investments are the settings for spin offs, their technobs, you say, our universities. What does this bill do if you notice? It allows the acquisition of these new companies that come out of the flesh of universities, not from technological companies, but from holding companies, from funds. The last thing that a technician needs coming out of the Polytechnic or the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki is to get it a fund. And thirdly, the most poisonous poison in which you poison the open society, which real strategic investors ultimately appreciate, is the institutional agenda for the strong on the one hand and the terrorism of civil society on the other. Ladies and gentlemen, this morning - you know - the Committee of Inquiry into mass fraud and polling began here. We, you know, in Mera25, have been a long way off in the committees of inquiry, because we believe that they have been shaking up parliamentaryism for decades. They hear citizens out there - it does not matter if they are a neo-democratic, yours, and so on - on committees of inquiry and they say: 'Okay, another cover'. However, in this proposal by SYRIZA, we participated in helping us also raise a hundred and twenty votes to create this examination. Good faith we participated and invited witnesses, who were all rejected. Not even praised! You choose to degrade this examination by calling people who, if they say the truth, will lose their jobs, like journalists. You of SYRIZA insist on calling politicians, as if we were interested in politicians. I'm not saying, call them. We asked that the media owners come in, that they testify, ask them questions. Our proposals have been rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, we are abstaining from this examination because we will not legalise this institutional parliamentary agenda for the fewer people. Beyond this clear institutional cover of the existing oligarchs - and I am speaking systemically of the tripartite memorandum block - there is currently a process of terrorising civil society. Do you think this will make good investors in the country? I'm telling you he won't. What do we mean 'terrorism of civil society'? I will give you two examples. In December of last year, in 2020, the Environmental Quality Observatory was set up in Syros with three hundred and eighteen members of the local society. They sent a report to the then Minister for the Environment, Mr Hatzidakis, calling for a study of heavy metals in the port of Syros. Here in Parliament our MP, Kritonas Arsenis, and twenty-six SYRIZA MPs raised the matter. A month later, in January, EMU company, which operates the yard, filed a million euros in the Environment Quality Observatory and one million in each of the two members of the Observatory who dared to talk about the issue in local media. Now on December 10th, there's a trial. The second example. In October 2020, the Greek courts sentenced two members of the "Greek Chrysos" company to Skouria in Halkidiki. They were convicted by the Greek Court of First Instance of violations of environmental legislation. Journalist Stavroula Solmi in the collaborative media of Thessaloniki Alterthess made a report on this trial and received a complaint from one of the two court-indicated for 100,000 euros, because she says she's being charged with processing personal data. If that's possible! The decision of the Greek court to be regarded as violating the legislation on personal data. Ladies and gentlemen, these two examples are examples of a legal bullying. It is a global mafia practice that has come to Greece as well. These are strategic actions aimed at declining civil society and effectively prohibiting the participation of citizens in the public. The message is, if you make use of freedom of speech in a way that doesn't like predators, then you'll get into trouble. Because they won't pay those amounts. I have no doubt that the Greek courts will relieve the citizens concerned. But the message is, you're gonna get in trouble. You're gonna get in trouble for years in court adventures. In the United States of America, thirty-one states have explicitly banned these strategic actions, an English-speaking SLAPP. In Canada, Parliament has passed a law prohibiting strategic actions. In Australia, the federal parliament has banned these actions. This month, on 11 November, the European Parliament passed a resolution proposing a series of measures to prevent citizens from being shredded through strategic actions. All these people in America, Canada, Australia, the European Parliament, understand that strategic actions do not require the quality strategic investors, the predators "Greek Gold". We are now tabling an amendment which does three things: firstly, it defines what'strategic education' means. It is specifically defined - you will read our amendment - as a strategic bullying against journalists, activists, citizens and clubs. Secondly, in these cases it says that the burden of proof to the contrary is borne by the plaintiff, not by the defendant. Thirdly, where the competent court finds that the action falls within the description of the case-law, it is dismissed as abusive and the defendant is ordered to pay the full costs of the defendant's judicial service. I'm addressing SYRIZA. Will you support our amendment? I'd like to think you'll do it. Ladies and gentlemen, to close, with unfair competition, with opacity everywhere, with unambiguous and terrorising civil society, a dystopia is being built, not to say a steep one, in which no good investor will come, as much as a red carpet as a mile [km] to it. Similar to your bosses, Mitsotakis S.A. They'll just come. We therefore vote against because, under the pretext of your government's strategic investment, it reaps the programming plunder that strengthens the strategic underdevelopment of the country, a process which unfortunately facilitates the programming condensation of parties that had once said will stand up to the circumstances of anticipation of programming plundering. Merra25 is here to show that real, quality, sustainable development requires a programme break with all this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u29	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u30	Yes, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u31	Mr President, because we have heard the Secretary of Mera25, Mr Varoufakis mentioning that this bill does not support small and medium-sized enterprises and I do not want this to remain unanswered - after all, Mr Varoufakis knows well in mathematics - I would like to say that the government in this bill is particularly supportive of small and medium-sized enterprises. Because, firstly, it is only small and medium-sized enterprises that receive a grant, that is, capital support for the start of their business plan, and it is only small and medium-sized enterprises that receive 40% to 133% higher subsidy than large companies. And this is about the new regional aid map, Mr Varoufakis, which you will see in areas where large businesses receive 15%, while small and medium-sized enterprises receive 35% - make a division, you will find that this is 133% above large enterprises - and other areas where large businesses receive 50% and small and medium-sized enterprises 70%. That's 40%. This is the government's policy to support small and medium-sized enterprises. It's the backbone of our economy and it's about 98% of our businesses.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u33	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u34	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr President. I'll just talk for a minute. Minister, I'm glad to hear that, but unfortunately I'm not convinced. And I'm not convinced for two reasons. Firstly, I referred to the circumvention of bureaucratic procedures with regard to the Forest Service and the Archaeological Service. That is not something you offer small and medium-sized enterprises. You only offer it to the colossians. And I say: if new procedures for the protection of forests and archaeological sites protect archaeological sites and forests from colossal, then why not open this up for all businesses? The small and medium-sized enterprises will not have the possibility of investing a million, two million, to circumvent the Forest Service and the Archaeological Service. You also talked about subsidies. The subsidies, however, at least from the Recovery Fund, Minister, will be made through the banks. We know that of the 500,000 companies only 22,000 have access to bank lending. That is why you cannot do anything since your strategic choice of the recovery fund money was to go to business through the banking system, which is assumed that it will never serve small and medium-sized enterprises. And that's not what people of Mera25 tell me. I'm told by people from commercial and other branches who are even in your party. You have a problem with your own people here. To convince them, not me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President. I will now give the floor to Mr. Haritsis, the parliamentary representative, to mention...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u37	Mr President, Mr Famelos must be the lead.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u38	Will Mr. Felmellos report?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u39	No, Mr. Famelos will talk, and then...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u40	Then what? For your amendment. Good. Then Mr. Bukouros will speak, and then Mr. Scandalidis will speak. We have, however, said in organising the debate, because Members are many, two to three Members and then parliamentary representatives do not continue. In any case, Mr Famele, you have the floor. After Mr. Femello, Mr. Bukkoros will speak. And I begged for time to be observed. There are too many speakers. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that in a day when we are counting once again a very tragic result on public health and on the issue of the safety of public health and life of citizens, it is difficult to directly open up the issues of strategic investment, it is up to the parliamentary debate, but I must also say that it remains the SYRIZA's request but also the whole of society, that the government understands that it is making serious mistakes in the management of the pandemic and that an emergency plan is needed for the whole country, with private clinics with the support of the ESS, with recruitment, obviously in the universality of the vaccination programme and also with the support of society, because that is what is missing. But since we are talking about strategic investment, Mr Ministers, I do not know if you have seen today's communications on energy costs. Greece, Mr President, and in November is a champion in energy costs in the wholesale market, which affects all investments and strategies. I suspect you understand that. The evacuation that presents this cost has reached 334% compared to the corresponding month of 2020 and the price will be closed at 229 on the day after today's day. The fact that we are first in Europe shows that this increase has been signed by Mrs Mitsotakis. Greece does not control the market. Greece has no energy strategy. Greece privatises the energy system and loses valuable tools, so we are first in wholesale prices. And I put it in the Minutes, Mr President. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Socrates Famelos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] What this means, however, to consumers practically. In practical terms, this means that, for the consumption of December, where PPC has so far charged a price, let us take an average of EUR 110 per megawatt, it will be added to the accounts of all the consumers of the low-voltage and correspondingly the average and high-voltage, but certainly of all the low-voltage, the sum of EUR 224 per megawattt. In practical terms, instead of a euro, we will be paid and owed more than 3 euros. There is a triple of energy costs and this has a direct impact on all consumers and the measures you have announced are very little and weak. The government does not understand the problem and does not want to solve it and the Greek industry comes in as we talk about investment and denounces official charges for manipulating energy prices in Greece and for oligopoly. In fact, the Greek Government refuses to implement the European Union's toolbox, which proposes a reduction in the excise duty that would give households 30% to 35% benefiting from heating oil, but also does not implement measures to prevent rhetoric in aiding vulnerable social groups, for access to the good of energy. Although the European Union is proposing them and we now have all the small and medium-sized entrepreneurship and the great entrepreneurship to be affected, let us see the small and medium-sized ones first. Forks, catering, taverns, rentals, tourism, how much does it cost? All family businesses, small and medium-sized enterprises, cost EUR 1000 to 1500 a month more because of the government, and we are talking today about investment! And what does the Competition Committee state in parliamentary scrutiny? That he set up a working group to study the problem. Are you still studying it, Ministers? Greece is also affected by the reality of Greece because of your policy and your lack of politics and you are studying it? And the Greek industry is coming today and says that EUR 150 million per month for the medium-voltage industry and I am making this statement on behalf of the Greek industry, again today. These are the results of the government of Mitsotakis, while at the same time empowering both PPC and TENE and the PPC and the administration of ELPE, so that Greece does not have any tools to policy for the benefit of strategic investments and that is why all entrepreneurship is losing. And it comes with today's bill to demand changes in terms of strategic investment. Let me read you from KATHMERINA what the bill does. I'll read exactly and testify. Greece may have been formally out of the crisis, but the use of α - α - α - α - α - card urban arrangements for private investments by invoking national interest continue unstable. A draft law by the Ministry of Development which is being discussed in the House extends the number of investments that can use privileged town planning arrangements in previous years, depreciating urban planning, multiplying derogations from legislation, restricting publicity and thus, the transparency of previous private projects. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Socrates Famelos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] On the positive side, of course, the report says that you corrected what you had posted for the cavalry, but you are coming with amendments and other issues relating to arbitrariness. That's who you are. I'm taking this post as well. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Socrates Famelos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] What, then, does the government promote and where does it deepen changes? Firstly, it is bypassing the country's development strategy and planning. Why? In order to include in public support and funding the 'associate' and the 'local' and not the right ones, not the best investments, not the ones giving long-term work and GDP. Secondly, bypassing spatial planning and urban rules. Why? Because they don't care about the New Democracy or the rule of law or science. We have heard them from your Member before. It is of no importance to set up an industry, if there is a school next door, even if it has a protected area. There is no reason to deal with this, your Members have told us. It doesn't matter for the residence of West Athens, nor do you care about Western Thessaloniki. They don't matter to you. Rule is one: Sell it all, suck it all over and mess everywhere. Third matter. Observation of environmental rules. Neither environmental impact studies nor presiding NATURA do we need, nor do we need audit services - we give them to individuals - nor European directives. The big fake words are for Mr. Mitsotakis' speeches only in the UN. The environment, however, also seems to be rivals of Mr Mitsotakis and the New Democracy. The Ministry of the Environment is declining, absent, as the environment loses with the Mitsotakis Government. Instead, strategic investment should obey a rule, such as the country's development plan, the criteria for placement and sustainable development strategies - the objectives of the UN - you say that strategic investments will be subject to derogations. The convictions are multiplying by the European Union and the European Court of Justice, but you do not fall into all of this, and you are bringing the services, the regional and the Ministry of Macedonia - Thrace. We are also listening to the Thessaloniki MPs saying that they are doing well and that the services are leaving Thessaloniki, as we have heard you are preparing to do with the Management Authority and the secretariats of INTEREG that we have tabled a recent question on the initiative of Alexis Haritsis. So, the programme secretariats for northern Macedonia, Bulgaria, Albania with a cigarette, with a range of 500 million a year to leave Thessaloniki and put who here in Athens? Yours too, so they can run a test on European funds? You should once applaud, when I think - with a government of Karamanlis, this secretariat came to Thessaloniki. Now you want to collect the permits to the ministries. And we see the strange, Mr. President, in this bill, after the Building Service that the Ministry of the Environment created to obtain building permits, now wants the Ministry of Development to draw up building permits, to settle your own and, where necessary, to put provisions like the ones you put in the Greek Gold, to precede the Greek Gold with its private auditor, who is paid by it, and if it is not the private partner of the Greek Gold, not even the Greek State. This is the situation that we have today with photographic provisions and derogations, even with a change in the development law in Chapter II, if I am not mistaken, which you have in consultation with another development law. This is the sloppyness and the limits you reach. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I wonder, Mr President: What serious investor is going to come to a country that does not exist in the rule of law, where there is no planning, which is not a priority? Because the Mitsotakis system is equal to legal uncertainty in Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u42	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u43	Eventually, they are all lost: and sustainable growth and the environment and the economy and work, and above all, entrepreneurship is lost, which does not often be found in the offices of New Democracy. Because that is what you want to promote, and unfortunately that is what we see, Mr President, and with the amendments. We see, on the one hand, that you ratify not only...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u44	Please, you've been in ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u45	For the amendments, please, Mr President, just one minute for the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u46	It's at the expense of colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u47	Yes, but you have already given Mr Simopoulos the amendment, and I would like the minute you gave Mr Simopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u48	The same time and the same observation...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u49	First of all, not just do you go ahead with the suffocation of the House, forbiding the witness to be heard from the opposition, but now you're retrospectively coming to resolve topics on the Escassa list as of 1 January? Is that possible? That is actually what you are doing with an amendment. People laugh at what you're pushing. And you come for the PYRKAL region, while a special urban plan is being developed - why have you announced - to place land use and height, while you have requested exactly the opposite and have you said other announcements and even saying that 50% will be free spaces, while, from what I read, in the open spaces will also be preserved? At the same time, exactly the same thing you do with the redefinition of the Matty issue, invoking the restoration of the environment while you are two and a half years of government and were you afflicting the Eye? In this connection, Mr President, there are amendments which cannot exceed the size of the bill on pages. (PM) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the bill unfortunately creates another crack in growth and investment, but a break, a crack in our country is the inappropriate and dangerous Mitsotakis government as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, too. Mr. Haritsis wants to take the floor. Mr Haritsis, you will be speaking about the amendment now for two minutes, and then Mr Bukkokoros will speak for his main speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u51	Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u52	Mr President, I did not ask for my main speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u53	You'll talk later, Mr. Bukowo. Mr Haritsis, you will speak of Amendment No 1149 obviously.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u54	In fact, for a minute, Mr President. I would like to say this: a few days ago the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group had tabled an amendment on the issue of feminine murders, the issue of racial violence, crimes against women because they are women. Just yesterday we had the fourteenth victim in the current year, in 2021, with the last victim in Thessaloniki. The government then rejected this amendment, vaguely referring to a legislative committee which will consider the matter. We believe that, apart from expressing our grief and frustration over these criminal events, the Greek state must take legislative initiatives to address this issue. We therefore reintroduce the amendment in this bill so that there can be the introduction of crime-law in the Greek criminal law of feminine crime, in crime with sex characteristics, and this time we ask the government to accept this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u55	This issue has been raised by the Prosecutor of the Ice Arena. It is a sensitive issue, not the substance of it, but its wording. It's not simple. In any case, it will be debated - I hope - at some point. Mr. Bukkaro, will you make your main speech?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u56	No, Mr. President. I want the floor for three minutes for a position on what has been said on vaccines and certain amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u57	You are now intervening, that is, not speaking.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u58	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u59	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u60	Thank you very much. It is a serious matter that has been raised by Mr Haritsis, and we are shocked by all these issues. I am sure that the state with the speed and seriousness that is appropriate will approach the issue. I have already heard some Members from the Police Department, Mr President, talking about the legislative framework that is being introduced today on strategic investment, fortified by an outdated logic which has led the country to the disinvestment, the economic crisis, unemployment and the escapade of young people. When they listen to investment, approaching the issue with an idealism, they are looking to find the problem and not possibly propose a solution. We have heard about beaches, port facilities and all that is contained in the amendments. They ignore the fact that these are arbitrary buildings of the Greek public. They are not private, ladies and gentlemen. From there on, Mr President, today we are at an important point in the battle for the pandemic that hits the country very strongly and loses people every day. The Prime Minister and the Government announced the mandatory vaccinations for over 60 years of age. I have heard a number of political leaders attacking this decision deeply, talking about hatred against this age group. Indeed, the current government has no reason to hate the particular age that is very close to us. A reading of the elections over recent years is enough to understand it. We do not, however, address these issues in the sense of political costs which appear to be taking on certain political powers, Mr President. Some people are attacking the measure, not considering the ages they give us most hospitals, most hospitalizations in the ICUs, and ultimately most people's losses. These political forces do not see that in those countries where vaccination reached 99%, such as Portugal and Denmark, the victims are sub-fold? Some are attacking the lowliest of people's instincts, not saying catholics of vaccinations, etc. At a time when we have a duty to fish in a particular age group - which is not a horizontal measure because it is not all about the Greek people, but it is an extensive measure - the political forces must finally stop fishing in the cloudy waters and with two-faced positions in Parliament's Chamber saying one, saying the opposite, and tell us about this particular, extensive measure in this critical battle of pandemic what their position is clearly. Clear position. Time is crucial for dealing with the pandemic. It is not a punishment measure, it is a protection measure of the most vulnerable age group. We understood the views of the political forces placed. I call on the others to put themselves in this measure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u61	Good. I imagine that in their main speech they will be placed. I will now give the floor to the Deputy Minister, Mr Giannis Economou, to develop Amendment 1144.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u62	Mercy, Mr. President. Since 11:30, we've been waiting. The speakers should be able to go alternately.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u63	You'll get the floor right after. The amendments are like that. Two Heads also came and spoke. We couldn't cut them off. The Rules of Procedure stipulate that the Heads of State or Government shall precede. What can we do? Mr Synthraki, I will then give you the floor, and after you Mr Scandalides will speak. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u64	Thank you very much, Mr President. I apologise for the overthrow of the program. I'll try to be brief. This is Amendment No 1144. He's got six articles. I begin with the fifth article of the amendment, which is a provision amending Article 15 of the n. In this context, it should be noted that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to biological agents at work does not contain any specific provisions on the protection of workers from risks related to exposure to biological agents at work. It provides for the possibility to delegate a project by the company for the promotion, transmission, exploitation of a radio or Internet product. What are we actually doing? Until now ERT has only been able to award such contracts in connection with the production and presentation of a broadcasting programme. The extension of this possibility to other services, such as marketing, commercial exploitation, to social media, is - I think - necessary and self-evident. Why? Because we have all been following up over the last two and a half years in the ERT to upgrade the product produced, the broadcasting programme. The intensity of this program is designed through the acquisition of new rights for both information and entertainment programs such as Greek series, mythoplasia, documentaries and foreign productions. Alongside the traditional instruments, the ERTFLIX digital platform is also developed and established through a wide range of options. So now that the content of ERT has been enriched and it is still evolving, we all realise that there is a need for qualified partners who can support the appropriate projection, so that this object can be widely exploited in order to increase the company's revenues and invest in similar content. The first samples from the user response - I think that everyone agrees on this and, above all, the viewers - are very positive for the changes and for the programme and for what ERT invests and manages. I think we need to enable her to award project contracts other than its traditional methods and for these new needs that competition has created, but also its own infiltration into new objects. In this way, public service broadcasting will be even more capable of playing a leading role in competition, which is necessary for ERT to play the role that we all want. The other articles in the amendment, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, concern the legislative improvements made to the President-in-Office's Decree 261 of '97, which in many ways governs the way in which State advertising is carried out, as is the case to date and what we are improving and how we regulate. In accordance with the applicable rules and the proposed improvements, public advertising expenditure is divided into two parts: The first section concerns events, creatively, media plan development, service support in all of the above and is carried out in compliance with the procedures of the n. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The second section relates to the assignment of the transmission and registration of messages, that is to say the entry of messages to the media, carried out on the basis of a specific invoice, in accordance with the current Presidential Decree. As we all understand, this delegation is not subject to a separate competitive procedure. It is made on the basis of the framework drawn up by the contractor resulting from the competitive procedure that I mentioned before. It is quite distinct and does not fall within the scope of the n. Date of birth: 4412/2016. I would like to point out that on the basis of the Presidential Decree currently in force - this Presidential Decree has been in force since 1997 - and in particular Articles 6 and 7 thereof, the State, the contracting authorities, namely the Ministries, has been able to conclude direct contracts with the Media for the promotion and registration of the advertising message. It is not legally clear enough and it is not clear how the contracting authorities, i.e. the Ministries, will be able to pay the contractors. What do we come and do, then, now with the proposed arrangement? The contracting authorities, i.e. the Ministries, are given the opportunity to pay directly to the Media of Mass Information for the promotion or registration - again - of the advertising message, on the basis of always the binding plan, the media plan, which has been submitted by the contractor who has come from the competitive process that I have already described to you under n. Date of birth: 4412/2016. This is how the following benefits arise, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, it is clear that it is a contractual relationship between the contracting authority, i.e. the Ministry, and the Mass Information Instrument, which will show the message or record by the contractor who will display the message or register it. Secondly, there is a avoidance of any conflict of interest, since otherwise the one who made the framework would also be the one who would pay for registration or promotion in the media. Thirdly, transparency is even greater, as we complete the provisions of the Presidential Decree - they were strong, but we complement them even more - and it is foreseen that in order to pay the contracting authorities, namely the Ministries, the media plan should provide all the necessary evidence, the orders, the evidence of visibility to the contracting authorities, that is to say to the Ministries. Fourthly, given that the payment money will now be managed by the contracting authorities, i.e. the Greek State, the Ministries, and not the contractors, it is essentially limited to the possibility of non-transparent transactions or commercial practices, i.e. reimbursements for those who know how this market is moving, between the Mass Information Instruments and the contractors who compile the media plan. Fifthly, because, as a general rule, the expenditure on the promotion and registration of these messages in the media is much higher than the rest of the advertising services undertaken by the contractors and which is the product of the competitive procedures and since they will be paid directly by the public bodies, always on the basis of - I repeat - the project that will be submitted to the Ministries by the contractor resulting from the competitive process, the possibility is that we do not lose much time and the promotion of the messages of the State should be done in time and quickly and the rest of the competitive procedure for the contractor should be much shorter. Finally, and also important. It is imported into the Presidential Decree - there was a blurred provision - authorizing the provision of any necessary detail on the forming of the price list and the final prices offered to the State, to the public bodies, to the media, to release these prices from the Ministry responsible to all public bodies carrying out public advertising and to this end, transparency is enhanced and more competitive the distribution of the services concerned. For reasons of legal security and speed and additional transparency, this arrangement also takes over outstanding payments of 2021. The tabling of the amendment at this time was considered necessary so that we can proceed with the necessary procedures without the problems, perhaps the bureaucracy and the ambiguities that existed in the previous period, so that we can immediately and quickly run a television campaign to inform the Greek public of the need to extend the vaccination coverage to both the first and third doses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u65	Thank you. Minister, please do not go away if some clarifications are needed on the amendment. Are there?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u66	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u67	Mr. Heta, here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u68	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I do not know if you understood today that what you have done so far was opaque. I mean, we had a party real. And you come to tell us today that we are adding transparency to the process, while it was not before. So, the too many millions that were shared in the media over the previous period of time, how did they happen? In opaque procedures? We don't want the confirmation from you. We know very well that they ate with "golden spoons" and that they shared money on even nonexistent site and newspapers that closed after a month. We knew about this. But we never expected the Minister of Government to come here today to tell us that there was a 'partial', and now say we'll put some transparent procedures in place. The first time you shared the money you invoked and added to the amendments today did not prevent you from sharing the Greek people's money there? So what has changed since today? Because today was a confession of opacity, I repeat. It's good to answer, but even if you don't answer, we have no problem. We know what happened the first time, we know what's happening now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u69	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u70	And all of this, of course, when a few minutes before - I conclude, Mr President - you have announced to the Greek people that our fathers would cut them 100 euros in the head and now you are sharing money on the channels again. But with transparent procedures now, we will have no new 'Lista Petsa'. Don't be "Lista Economou" now. You guys watch out.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u71	Is there another colleague who wants some clarification?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u72	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u73	Mr Haritsis, you have the floor on the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u74	I am not going to go into the substance of the amendment now, we will study it and put it into place. There is one thing I would like to ask the Minister responsible for. What is the reason why this amendment has retroactive effect since 1.1.2021? Will you explain to us why exactly is this retrospectiveness and why you've been covering for the past few months? What exactly do you want to cover with this period of ten months before the current date and put this retroactive status from 1.1.2021?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u75	I think on the grounds that he has told you he has covered. Nevertheless, here you go, Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u76	A very brief answer, Mr President. First of all, obviously it does not constitute a presumption of opacity when you come and improve the institutional framework. You know that all previous campaigns were made on the basis of special ministerial decisions that are in force, on the basis of this Presidential Decree. What we are doing is creating a clearer legal basis, without delays and bureaucracy. I would like to inform you - and you know this - that a large part of the campaign that has run in the past for bureaucratic reasons has not yet been made clear to pay off. This, Mr Haritsis, is also a key reason why we anticipate the validity of this amendment for any campaign that has been made by the State since 2021 and then for purely technical reasons more simplified. Nothing more and nothing less. Obviously, every legislative initiative by the administration - and I think it should be in its philosophy - must improve things. This does not in any way suggest that what happened in the previous period has any suspicion of opacity or anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u77	Thank you. Mr. Synthrakis has the floor. After Mr Syntagakis I will give the floor to the Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement, Mr Scandalidis. Then there will be three Members of Parliament. They have also stated that they want to speak with Mr. Bukokouros and Mr. Hetas. Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Mr President. I will be placed for the third part in terms of creating a framework for companies that are technicians in higher education institutions and research centres. And I will begin with the simple, simple and clear question: research into the purchase and profitability of business groups or research into the service of satisfying people's needs and social progress? Here, obviously, two worlds conflict, two concepts conflict, and the JRC does not ostracize. All other parties 'yes, but' etc. This new institutional framework, which deals with the bill, is clearly aimed at establishing innovative capital companies to promote a more flexible way of interconnecting and transferring research results from research institutions to the capitalist market rather than using research and science for the benefit of social needs. This objective is served by this bill, and the JRC is obviously against it. The need to clarify what companies are artificial, their subject matter, their process of establishment is done by the bill because government and private capital are interested not in the risk posed by the entrepreneurialisation of public research institutions, but this is their objective - but because they are in a hurry to implement the basic direction of the bourgeois order for the development of innovation ecosystems, which is recognised as one of the main priorities for the commercialisation of the research process. This was served by previous governments, regardless of whether SYRIZA disagrees on secondary issues. Besides, his development law is n. 4399/2016, previously in PASOK, linked the investigation to the capitalist market. The establishment of a spin-off is one of the most profitable activities of the AEI, passing on to the PPE and this part, expanding it even further and receiving the transaction between universities, research centres and businesses. Obviously, many of the ideas on which these companies are being set up may be innovative, useful and necessary. However, most of the time, they are rejected because they are not necessary or profitable for capital and the market at any given time, so that the direction of research and academic studies is directed towards and dictated by the trends and interests of businesses and the market, instead of being carried out with an incentive to the needs, their utility and the development of technology. Is the example of Covid -19 where in previous years the study of SARS and MERS was stopped, why was it not profitable? While now a large number of companies are racing in the field of competition for what will be the first to find the vaccine or appropriate treatment. The account that the establishment of technicians' companies is an opportunity for young researchers, even as a solution to the underemployment of the highly skilled workforce or as a factor in contributing to the development of the regional and national economy, because 'all together can', because 'capitalist development is for everyone' and other such physiologies, are intended to pass on to the consciousness of the young people who have been given the opportunity to research and their object of helping to overcome the crisis. Of course, if capitalist growth is for everyone, it turns out to be daily and, above all, the experience of the previous crisis and of course, of the capitalist crisis. It is the flagship example of tourism, the'motor of the economy', as you say, with workers and micro-enterprises being crushed and the middle-flooders coming out won. You are actually mocking thousands of young people who are trying to win their future, but they are facing unemployment, insecurity, flexible working relationships, competition, who will first get a research result, if this is financed by a company, if the intellectual and economic benefits of their work are fruitful, if the small company that set up their own money or their family at some point will pay and gain the interest of a sponsor. You sell them algae for silk ribbons that my best chances will stop brain escape abroad, the well-known Brain drain and the achievement of Brain gain will come. Nevertheless, how a young man will succeed in setting up such a company, what life expectancy he will have, if he will keep his intellectual rights, how many jobs he opens, what working conditions he will work for, for all the above, the supporters of the antidote are indifferently whistling at Brain Drain. It is obvious that trying to ideologically manipulate young scientists, trying to put them on the weight of the way out of their own capitalist economic crisis, discourage them and disappoint them their dreams for a better life. The formation of 'innovation hubs' - so called - hosting groups of young people by developing a start-up entrepreneurial idea, make clear the direction of research in sectors that generate profit, the criterion of which is the entrepreneurial benefit and the commercialisation of its results. The large capital is evident to avoid taking the investment risk for the development of all new knowledge and the high cost of innovation production and transfer it to the university, to the research centres. In practice, the university gambles reserves and funds on behalf of large enterprises which should be intended to meet the needs of teaching, research and educational needs of their students. The possibility of granting intellectual property rights by research institutions, the use of spaces and infrastructures for consideration, renting for immovable property, the use of the university's name to companies, objectively intensifys competition, categorisation among the institutions and will be linked to the so-called assessment of teachers on market criteria. In other words, the teacher-manager with business links will be better assessed by his colleagues who give the necessary weight to the process of education and much more. The university's operation will therefore become more and more merchandise. We, as JRC, stand against linking entrepreneurship to the educational process, the operation of schools, universities, research centres. It undermines the creativity of the researcher, the free perception, the free exchange of views among scientists, with a view to the intellectual production of new scientific knowledge for the benefit of social well-being. This is why the JRC claims only public funding at the level of real needs. We are fighting for the solution of the objections that capitalism brings to the educational and research process. Within the framework of the requirement to abolish all business activities in universities, the JRC also claims to abolish the EPPs which are leveraging the university and research community. Entrepreneurship cannot solve the problem of distance but within the possibilities of developing science and research and exploiting its results from society. In our view, entrepreneurship is the reason why it kept the universities closed up for more than a year and underscore the educational function. If you ask us, though, if innovation is bad, of course it is not bad. For the JRC the connection of new knowledge to production is done and will always be made. It is necessary to introduce new knowledge into production. But we are not generally talking about knowledge about knowledge, but about knowledge for the benefit of social needs. Certainly the above cannot be done as long as the means of production are capitalist property and the purpose of production is profit. So, in the end, research can only be subject to this purpose. Research and knowledge can be put to the service of social progress when the economy is based on social property, focusing on satisfying social needs, when there is central planning and labour control. Then universities and research centres - and I conclude with this, Mr President - will be in direct cooperation with the productive units, and will make a decisive contribution to the development of scientific, technological innovations on social progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u79	Thank you too, Mr. Synchronous. Mr Costas Scandalidis, Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement, now has the floor. Then four Members will speak, Mrs Angeliki Adamopoulou, Mr Konstantinos Maravegias, Mr George Kotsos, Mrs Charula Kafantaris, and immediately after Mr Heitas. Mr. Scandalidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u80	Thank you very much, Mr President. The Prime Minister today basically made a new proclamation after what he did a few days ago, too. And only the frequency of the complaints proves that the government's policy is'seeing and doing', because the procrastination, inefficiency, bring the compulsoryity to branches and procedures, even in the direction that we have proposed. And I think that is not an effective government policy. Other options should have been ahead of them, related to public and people in contact with population mattresses, with many people every day. All this should have been planned from the outset, with specific - if you like - measures and steps that would be taken in a specific year. Instead, we see that even today, at the critical moment, the ESS does not say a single word about the National Health System, where today’s central problem is how our hospitals and public health are facing this huge throat that has enclaved the country. It deserves us once again, when we have for so long been indulging, constantly, to build a national front by all the parliamentary forces and in a design that is complete, to say our views, to fight all of us together to deal with this mud and not to have to make, for reasons of small-scale politicians, movements or fronts opposition to the government or governmental communication against opposition in the name of the unwritten vote. The issue goes beyond the controversy of the parties in Parliament and, if we do not understand it, it is never possible to deal with it. It's a shame, because it's linked to souls lost, to people tested, to layers of the population in despair. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I would like to raise a point which, in the end, has become the voice of a voodoo in the wilderness. That's the issue of legislating. Honestly, I cannot understand how a pro-European government, which says that it is modern, which says it is fighting and has been in the Prime Minister's key programme statements for better legitimisation, goes from evil to worse, legislates like the most rough and inefficient government the place has ever had. Four amendments you have brought, gentlemen of the government, a hundred forty pages exactly. Count them. In other words, the Member who had to make a decision on these amendments, how long does he have to read them, how long does he have to assess them, how long does it take to make a decision, to take a position on their content? It's a disgrace, because MPs are not a scratch of the system. They are people who are shut up, who want to say their opinion and who want to legislate in the best possible way. What do you expect with your "final" state, bringing these amendments? Prove that you are effective? You are not effective because you go to apply these laws with the hundreds of forty pages, how they are changed, how you go to the previous laws and how, in the end, every citizen will be able to find solutions to his problems through such legislative frameworks. The multiplicity and bureaucracy are not treated with such "final" centres, which ultimately legislate in the way they legislate. Ladies and gentlemen, the government has brought in a bill with its best conditions: to hit red tape and speed up investment. However, the bill does not move effectively in this direction, despite its individual positive provisions and individual positive chapters, such as the latter. It brings together all the provisions of previous development laws. While the ministerial decisions under Law 4635/2019, your law, "Invest in Greece", have not been adopted, its provisions are recast and certain things are added that improve the situation. This delay in government practice and in the application of the laws who can cover it? Who can interpret and cover this delay? In the name of improving the investment environment, its provisions are identified by deregulation of each spatial and environmental planning, thus undermining the country's most important productive wealth. You define the emblematic investment - which is of great importance - which does not move within a specific framework of terms and conditions. It is simply decided by a three-member committee without a plan, without any conditions, without limitations, without any conditions, without an objective basis. You keep talking, in every law you bring, about large businesses and no corresponding incentives are introduced for small businesses. And of course, you also make the terrible economy: you take the regional investment, the possibility of 3 million from the regional authorities - to 1 million. This is your view of the regional planning of the country. After all, what are you doing with this bill? By abolishing the urban environmental conditions, giving general possibilities to overthrow any spatial planning in the name of investments, giving authorisations without conditions to the centre, you will, in essence, transfer each investment to the discretion of the government centre. I believe that this is an entirely wrong choice, which will help nothing but help, as I will explain below. You're rejoicing that you're the most pro-investing government. You had budgeted 3.5 billion initially from the Development Fund in the 2021 budget. You revised him along the way to 1.7 billion. And of these you have not actually disbursed a single euro. It's just bureaucracy or that you have no plan. The investment strategy for a genuinely pro-investing government has, in my opinion, two critical conditions: attracting large investment from both internal and external - emblematic as you say it - and the second and most critical condition is mobilisation - if we want growth in the country - and the little production capacity available to the place richly throughout its extent to all its social classes and forces. I say this because the delay is because there is, in fact, no regional planning in the country, there is no possibility of giving the region a name. The Prime Minister had also said about large projects, contagious, public works that will be done. That's what we agreed on. You are only talking about St. Kosmas and, in fact, about two years' delay. You should plan a large project in each region, a large investment, a public investment, and bring a series of private investments and off-site and on-site projects to the region, rebuilding spatial plans in each region in such a way that it mobilises its productive powers and create added value. This regional development is out of your mind. you never have in mind that it can be done beyond a central settlement and distribution of resources. But the central arrangement and the distribution of resources makes you tempted to choose, without permission, without specific commitments, in an arbitrary manner that you give the investments. And that was the only problem? The problem is that there can be no real development in the country. There is no reversal of the development model, there is no aggregation of its productive powers, there is no possibility of exploiting the productive wealth. That's the reality. So you come again to show your concentration and your ineffectiveness. And we're going to the disbursements. The banks are, in fact, making privileged financing. 40% of loans inside and out of balance sheet are'red' and the new bankruptcy code threatens to relieve half Greeks of loans. The chronic investment gap with fixed investment as a percentage of GDP has been stable for ten years at the lowest in Europe, about half of the European average. The banking system, while receiving exceptional funding in March 2020 from the European Central Bank of EUR 40 billion, does not find investment opportunities to finance and deposit, unfortunately, liquidity to the Bank of Greece. Above all, selective policy chooses the occupants who resort directly to the centre of power to ensure that their plans are implemented. A slow-moving growth potential for small and medium-sized enterprises is therefore intensified, it is not easy to create added value, we have the distribution of 43 000 million in benefits and aid. And I ask: what are they going to businesses, what are they going to do, and how are they investing in the business, and not as a profit, the businessman's pocket? To talk about the core of development potential... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I'm not telling you what you're going to do now, it's something easy. It's not easy. I remember in 2010, 2011 in a similar great process to bring the famous 'fast track' or, if you like, before the Olympic Games with the Commission that we gave it powers, but within a specific context and conditions, for a specific time, to do a specific job approved by the Greek Parliament. We made some efforts. If you were to learn from them, if you could get something, do it to have a continuity of this opportunity that we really had to make use of resources and break red tape in a specific way that would be transparent and objective. Unfortunately, as you govern crises will be recycled, budgets will remain inapplicable, the economy will fall, large investments will be incarcerated, resources will be untapped and, unfortunately, a historic opportunity will be lost and once again for the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u81	Thank you very much, Mr Scandalidis. Mrs Adamopoulos has the floor from Mera25 and immediately thereafter Mr Constantine Maraveyas from New Democracy. Here, Mrs Adamopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is a great debate on growth in Greece. Listening to public reports, statements and positions of government officials, but also to the Prime Minister himself, he will believe that we are talking about another country. The screen is one, but, obviously, another film is seen by the citizens and another is seen by the government. And I shall refer to specific examples. The Prime Minister recently announced that the unemployment rates in our country are falling and that Greeks are being repatriated abroad. On the first point, in relation to the decline of unemployment, the question that arises, first of all, is this: what is the Prime Minister's reference point? Unemployment has fallen compared to when? And I am referring to unemployment, of course, because it is directly related to the growth rates in our country. The question, then, is: Unemployment has fallen from time to time? At the beginning of the pandemic, with the first wave, where thousands of businesses closed down and became unemployed and underemployment, respectively, thousands of Greek workers? Does it refer to the tourist season, where fatal, precisely because of the increase in seasonal requirements and precisely because many tourist businesses operate, does unemployment fall, but all these seasonal workers have to wait another eight months to get back to work? So if his announcements, his reports, have to do with the specific tourist months and the announcements of September or October, then we are talking about a virtual situation. Also, what the Prime Minister has failed to say is that our country is one of the two European countries with a two-digit figure on the unemployment rate and is 6% above the average of the countries, of the countries of the European Union. He also did not tell us that youth unemployment is mocking, that it is at this stage - in the second quarter of 2021 - at 38.2%, about 2.2 percentage points above the corresponding period in 2020, where it was around 36%. This is the real situation, therefore, and not the one you are trying to display artificially with aerial and deformative lenses, causing and creating distorting impressions. As far as the question of the repatriation of Greeks from abroad is concerned: From a very small survey I have carried out, I have found three publications, the first of which is on a prominent pro-government website, which refers to a personal assessment by Mr Staikora for about a thousand applications for repatriation. And the question is: Are they really about repatriation of Greek young people who have left because of the chronic economic crisis or are they European low pensioners who, with the thousands of pounds or EUR 1,500, cannot respond to the high cost of living in their countries, such as Spain, Italy or Portugal and see Greece as an attractive resort in which they will spend the rest of their lives? The second article refers to about a hundred and twenty-four pensioners, while the third article places on the equation and the COVID factor, attributes that we are talking about a transient repatriation, which concerns our compatriots working with the teleworking regime and who have managed to resettle to Greece temporarily in order to be close to their families and who, when the pandemic conditions retreat, will again be forced to unravel. Here, therefore, is a pragmatic situation which is projected to create distortions of impression. Now with regard to the recent position of the Minister of Development, Mr Georgiadis, who came out on a remote window to celebrate and tell us that big companies like Microsoft and Cisco intend to invest in our country. First of all, I would like to point out this: precisely because the casino case, which you have blown it up and it does not literally cool, it is good that the celebrations take place after these investments have been completed, and since we can make the overall and final assessment and draw some conclusions on what we have taken and what we have given in relation to these investments, namely what kind of jobs they have opened up, how many jobs, in what working conditions. Because, let us not forget Mr Hatzidakis' anti-government law, which abolished eight hours, established 10 hours, unpaid overtime, turned the Labour Inspectors' Body into an Independent Authority, weakened, which will not, in essence, function as an audit mechanism, introduced uncontrollable redundancies, forced permits. So, in what working conditions will these large companies be employed? What added value will these investments give local communities? Also, what will the Greek economy get? How much will the Gross National Product grow from taxation and what will the State give as a contribution to incentives and infrastructures? And I say all this because the world is now tired of promises, of wishes, of being tired every day of hearing airplanes, and it is tired of seeing that you are not really interested in the Greek taxpayer and employee and self-employed, but you are only offering simple gifts to the predator elite. What do you intend to do for the small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, for the Greek citizen, who fight every day and live in a grey zone of lasting life? Because these measures announced a moment ago by the State Secretary for Support to Small and Medium Entrepreneurship, are nothing more than loans on existing loans, i.e. an increase in private debt, an increase in the dolphins on these people already in debt. So the question is: Are you going to provide practically financial tools to the backbone, literally, literally, in the vertebral column of our economy, which is the small and medium-sized entrepreneurship without at the same time charging them? With regard to this draft law, which refers to strategic investment and speeding up the licensing procedures under conditions of course great, namely in accordance with the principles of sustainable, socially just and balanced development and the principles of the circular economy for the savings of resources - as you say - the WWF has come to disprove you and to say in its relevant memorandum that there is absolutely nothing for the protection of the environment, for the conservation and restoration of biodiversity and ecosystems, for the real development of the circular economy in accordance with the relevant Regulation of the European Union and for the principle of non-injurious environmental damage, and that the association of Greek peasants and urbansants should first say that the economy should be transformed into a zero-pollution economy and that the draft is seen as a purely economic area without the involvement of the Ministry of the Environment, but also the Ministry of the Environment itself has no know-how in order to make environmental and environmental commitments. He also said that environmental priorities are not taken into account at national and regional level in terms of the quality of the natural and structured environment, bypass and bypassing the forestry service, so that not just the inefficiency but the degradation of the most important resource in our country, which could actually promote a new substantial development model.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u83	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u84	I shall conclude, Mr President, and thank you. So what's the bill doing? It provides that any majesty-economy investor can come here to set up his business to build anything, without environmental commitments, without environmental priorities and, of course, under working far-reaching and working-age conditions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, too. Mr. Konstantinos Maravegias has the floor from New Democracy and then prepare Mr. George Kotsos from New Democracy. Here, Mr. Maraveya, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u86	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the interventions we are debating today by the Ministry of Development in the existing framework for private investment support in the country serve three main priorities: firstly, the simplification and updating of legislation to reflect today's needs. Secondly, the provision of new incentives for private investment. Thirdly, the more rapid financing of investment projects is part of State aid schemes. It therefore creates today's draft law three main pillars: modernising the regulatory framework for strategic investment, facilitating the implementation of the existing grid of development laws and financing private investment which are part of it, and simplifying the provisions governing the establishment of companies of technicians and providing incentives for their development. First of all, as regards strategic investment, the consolidation of previous relevant laws aims at speeding up authorisations and the necessary legal certainty for all stakeholders. However, it also introduces new categories of strategic investment, new land uses involving data centres and facilities for cinematographic production so that these economic activities can benefit from the incentive to placement. Innovative activities such as agri-food, research, development, biotechnology, cultural and creative industries, robotics, artificial intelligence, medical tourism, cyclical economy, space industry, cloud computing and so on are supported. They are part of the strategic investments of power plants such as green hydrogen production systems, marine wind parks and floating photovoltaic parks and storage facilities. It is also particularly important to mobilise so-called emblematic investments which are granted a number of facilities such as placement, fast track licensing, tax and capital incentives, grant, leasing grants or wage-cost grants. All this with the aim of attracting modern productive investments, such as in the green economy to provide capital incentives beyond anticipated tax payments to potential investors. By 2025 these are linked as a priority to the Recovery Fund which has to act as an accelerator of the most mature investment projects in order to be implemented immediately. And achieving this objective is crucial not only for economic growth but also for the social development of our country. Minister, I also consider it important that the second part of the draft law containing legislative improvements to the legislation applied to development laws with a view to speeding up the evaluation of projects and better monitoring of the implementation of the private investment. At the same time, we are increasing the business that can be incorporated into the development law, as are the categories of beneficiaries of aid. And these are tools that I am sure you will also take advantage of the bill on the new development that will soon be submitted to Parliament. Mr President, I would like to look a little further at the third place concerning technicians, the so-called 'Spin Off' companies, namely the business initiatives of our country's Higher Education Institutions and Research Centres. This is a political priority of the New Democracy, which we had the opportunity to analyse in detail in the committee responsible for research and technology. We finally want in our country the rapid development of innovative products or services from know-how, research results and even patents produced by researchers themselves in their laboratories. So the bet for Greece is to make international use of this new scientific knowledge by creating new high-level jobs for scientists and wealth for the whole country. This priority is coming to serve the Spin Off companies by supporting and setting with their billed tools for their creation and development. Research organisations themselves must provide for arrangements in relation to the operation of their Spin Off companies and the objective remains to simplify the procedures and facilitate the participation of researchers themselves and of third parties who intend to invest in these companies. Especially for this purpose is it easy for private individuals to enter the spin offs companies with new tax incentives to investors, removing administrative obstacles, especially in the establishment of foreign investors in our country. In the high-tech field, the development of such innovative companies will act catalytically not only in favour of the Greek economy and the reduction of Brain Drain, but also in view of the international investment interest that has been recorded for our country in recent years, it can have a multiplier effect on the establishment of more generally newly-born companies by Greek scientists. In the same direction, public private partnerships are moving in the area of applied research, with the recent successful partnerships in exploiting the innovation of research centres, with large companies inside and outside Greece. That is why we need to see how this effort will actually be based in the next few years, not only on the Recovery Fund but also on the ESRF. I am sure that the respective bill you are preparing, Mr Minister, will also serve this need to combine public research infrastructures with productive economic activities. In conclusion, I would like to point out the response of the co-responsible ministries to parliamentary control - including my own - regarding the need to extend duty-free and inconsistent support for small and medium-sized enterprises from action or retail. The relevant amendment on the grant of the retail trade for the development or upgrading of electronic stores comes to respond to a very practical and real problem of traders. The fact that the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis supports the real economy and disguises the Greek society confirms that the New Democracy continues to genuinely express the vast majority of our fellow citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u87	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Mr. George Kotsos has the floor from New Democracy. Then Mrs. Harula Kafantaris has the floor and immediately after Mr. Hetas. Come on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, when we took over the country's governance about thirty months ago, the primary objective of our government was to create all the necessary conditions for our country to become a attraction for investment. [[At this point, the C' Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] The essence of our policy over the years as a government was precisely the creation of this pro-investment environment that our economy and our country so need, an environment that attracts investment, attracts investors. The European Commission itself has also estimated that the growth in investment in our country in 2021 will be 12.9%, while in 2022 it will reach 15.1%, reducing the investment gap that existed until now and, of course, creating so much needed new jobs. The strong presence of investors and the concentration of funds in our country will naturally bring new jobs, which will be competitive in terms of pay and will naturally be able to attract our young people back to Greece again. They will give impetus to our economy and they will be able to guarantee the well-being of our fellow citizens for the years to come. I believe that we all agree that it is a vital need, if we want to create competitive new jobs, to adapt our policy and strategy to investment in line with what the new era brings. I think it's time to make a decisive contribution so that we can convert Brain Drain into Brain Gain. The image we are emitting is very important and we all recognise that pluralism does not favour investment. We need a consolidated text with targeted interventions, which will unite all the legislation of 10 and 19 by adapting to the new modern requirements of the time, and that is what we are doing with today's draft law. Our aim is to build a new relationship between the state and the investor, just to feel the second sure that the public administration will not trouble him, it will not delay him, it will not depreciate him, it will not create obstacles for him and that it will see his investment realised in a short time and at the same time bring fruit both for him and for the economy and for society. We want new category of strategic investment that will promote economic sectors such as food, green economy, biotechnology, the digital transformation of enterprises, waste and waste management, and activities that are adapted to research and innovation. Research and innovative activities are the ones that will give added value and bring scientists of renowned prestige to our homeland. They'll bring back the young people and young people who had left, turning the Brain Drain back. Because you know, our young people often want a profession that responds to their scientific background, to their education, and their pay is not always the first in terms of their choice. At the same time, we want to reduce the time of control required to operate a business, so there is no additional delay, and therefore we assign certified auditors this check to speed up the procedures. Where it took a year and a half to control a company and operate, this will now be done by one step, by a declaratory act. For external funds, we create temporary leave, enabling a foreign company to operate and operate in our country directly, thereby creating new jobs. An important point of the bill is companies that are artificial, i.e. new companies which have as their object the exploitation of knowledge produced in research laboratories by high-level scientific and technical education and also by research and educational institutions with the assistance of private funds and financial institutions. We must create a new, modernised, effective and effective framework for the operation of these fees and for everyone to know in an easy and simple way how these companies operate. I come to a chapter of great importance, research, which can now be exploited in business, fertile and efficient terms, to motivate researchers, to attract investors and to be a development tool for our country. Of course, I would like to point out here that we need to get away from the basic research and move on to the application research so that the research field is not yet a project to be placed on the investigator's shelf and it is likely that it will be the backbone of a new programme, but that it will be an applied technique, which can be exploited business and investment. It is true that in Greece new, important inventions are constantly being developed by our researchers and produces leading scientific knowledge with significant potential for commercial use by the international market. We must ensure in our universities that all these necessary tools are devoted to research and innovation and at the same time give impetus and support to the need to transform research and scientific knowledge into a new product, a new service, into a new business activity. Ladies and gentlemen, with this bill in our country, Greece consolidates us as an attractive investment destination. This draft law demonstrates our desire for a new, strong, developed Greece, which will attract the interest of the global community in investment and development. With a view to the future, then, we will place emphasis on entrepreneurship, research and innovation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Mr. Kotso. The floor now has the SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance Mrs. Hara Kafantaris for seven minutes. Hot request, because there are too many speakers yet - the list is still at the beginning - to keep time. Ladies and gentlemen, because I have heard that you want to hear who are following, the floor will take six minutes - because the President of his Party spoke - the parliamentary representative of the Greek Solution Mr Constantine Hetas and then, Mr Baraliakos, Mrs Bryzidou, Mrs Jackson and she goes on to say. Mrs. Kafantaris, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mr President. In fact, the government is in defense. And what else can that mean by tabling an amendment, which has to do with the practically hopeless effort of the government to cover irregularities about the Pecha list? And the time of her testimony and her retrospectiveness is another matter that poses questions. Of course, I would say that it is not just an institutional diversion, it is also a panic that exists in the government. I now come to the draft law which we are discussing today. Much is used by the Government of New Democracy the word 'investments': 'We will be saved from investment'. "The New Democracy is the investment party, while you at SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance are opposed to investment" etc. It is a slogan that we hear very much. Sure, what can I say? Example. In summary, I quote: Investments in Greek. In a week, the bulldozers would enter, Minister for coming now - did you have a Ministerial Council, of course - and two and a half more years where we are? But, ladies and gentlemen of the government, we cannot forget that in the SYRIZA government in 2018 we had a record of foreign direct investment and that is an important element. For us strategic investment is not just a big investment. Each investment law expresses the development philosophy that the government has, but in itself a development law does not prevent recession. It's just a guiding move, signals developments. It could give an investment boost, as we would say. We don't decorate investments on their own. They don't solve development issues. There must be rules and, of course, they must contribute to changing the development model as they say. What is the development model 2010-2015 followed by the Government of New Democracy and the then PASOK? After all, the recent economic crisis, which was not short-term, was really a crisis of development modelling. We had an unemployed growth in 2012-2015 - any growth, I would say - unfinished projects, while their main features were investments in marinas, in PV, in Mall and that kind of issues. However, a development law must be part of a comprehensive development policy, leave a practical footprint, give a job, give a benefit to local society, not just a profit for the investor, while the project's course should be monitored and, above all, completed over a certain period of time. How many investments did we receive in 2015 that had not been completed, have they not yet been paid since the coup d'état of New Democracy and PASOK? A development law must facilitate investments that create local value added, attract investment, but investment in the knowledge economy by contributing to the country's productive reconstruction. Especially at the present time of the climate crisis, a development law must also be part of the logic of a 'green' transition, but a transition with justice, a fair 'green' transition, but with society. The Government of SYRIZA, when amending the Law in 2019, had as a central idea the provision of non-financial incentives to attract investments in sectors of high added value, such as innovation, processing, start-ups. At the same time, the law was trying to specify the criteria for assessing proposals that were submitted and to create a framework of contributive benefits for local communities that would welcome strategic investments that the Ministry currently intends to abolish. What do you mean, gentlemen of the New Democracy, as a strategic investment? What is proposed by a large investor, who, of course, will have a way of pressing, even though it is not part of a comprehensive strategic development policy, but thus occasionally, without a plan. That's why you're amending laws. This is why you apply, you forget laws with concentration and subjectivity - a three-member committee under the Minister - with incentives to investors, always bet and leaning everything on the Recovery Fund, without control, without criteria, without transparency, without participation by society, productive bodies, without participation by the public administration. Are there any rules for you, gentlemen of the government? Is there, for example, the major issue of the environment and its protection? Are there the workers? Are there the young, the unemployed, the state-of-the-art scientific potential? And don't tell us about the young man who came from abroad - and you advertised it as government and the Prime Minister - who came back to work on his father's business. The environment, however, seems to be an obstacle. For this reason, environmental and town-planning derogations, public concessions to the cavalry. Strategic investments are envisaged on a sanctuary and beach, as well as in areas located in whole or in part within a NATURA network area - only those areas of absolute nature protection are excluded - with environmental authorisation by the RIS's Central Environmental Authorisation Board. It is also planned to subject projects to standard environmental commitments, and even to redefinition or redefinition of watercourses by decision of the RIS. After all, and last November by law of the Ministry of Development you had that scientific originality - I would say - in NATURA areas you also have sub-regions where industrial uses were allowed. Warlords, peasants, engineers formulated opinions and objections, reservations in many articles of the draft law. [[This is where the ending bell of the speaking time of the honourable Member rings.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. Everyone spoke more. Please, just a minute. And the Chamber of Geotechnicals expressed considerable objections about the land of high productivity, the installation of photovoltaics, as it is a high risk of investment in productive land, and the issue is not to exceed 1% of the coverage. So you are finally abolishing the condition that the investment project should be part of the logic of a national development strategy, without prejudice to the institutional framework of strategic investments to be linked to a process of urban and spatial planning of all levels, with permanent legislation, the absence of planning, the abolition of controls, the deterioration of public mechanisms, the reduction of serious issues in registries, government committees and future ministerial decisions. Listen to the representatives of the small and medium-sized enterprises, who, in fact, think that about thirty thousand and forty thousand of our eight hundred companies have access to cash lending, so in the Recovery Fund, small and medium-sized enterprises are effectively excluded from bank lending. A favorable climate is created for possible service of friends of excellence, etc., which is why the bill is characterised by a serious case. You are preparing a law only to absorb resources from the Recovery Fund, but to absorb resources from the few. In conclusion, Mr President - and I thank you very much for the time - please finally accept the amendment we have tabled on feminine murders and the introduction of the term into our Criminal Law, because, at the Council of Europe, it is the shadow pandemic and, unfortunately, it is also confirmed in our country, having so far been declared and certified fourteen feminine murders. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u91	And we thank Mrs. Kafantaris. The Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution, Mr Konstantinos Hetas, has the floor now, and immediately after that, the Minister for Development and Investment will have the floor, Mr Georgiadis. Here, Mr. Heta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u92	Mr. Minister, you are not a ministry, you are photographers. So many photographic devices! I want to ask some questions about the bill before we go to some topical issues, because today you have overcome yourself as a government. In fact, how much is served by the national interest you continue to invoke when your purpose is not the investments that the country really needs and needs, but the service of private interests. How protected is the natural environment that you are promoting sustainable development when you are legislating, overcoming all environmental legislation and authorisation? When effectively abolishing all basic urban and spatial rules? All of them! When you legislate not windows, but doors whole for selling hay on the beach, even on the bottom. Be careful, Minister, because this is a serious matter. As the time passes, the wires are growing on the beaches and as you well know the hayalus and the beaches belong to the Greek State, they belong to the Greek people. Access for all citizens to the beaches, free access, is a constitutional right. No one has the right to deprive it of the Greeks and as we have pointed out several times from this Step stop behaving as if the public property of your grandfather's field is. You will not rule this country eternally nor have you received any white cheque to grant fifty - 100 years of fortune to the Greek people. The "sales as furnished..." or "collapsed" in this case cannot apply to us. Really, to ask something, what investments does Greece need? Why insist, stick to sectors and production models, as they are - look out, well tourism does - only tourism that has accepted how fragile it is - has proved - and how unpredictable it is. Because you want to turn the economy into a tourist service economy in this case. Why should our Gross National Product depend to such an extent on unstable factors? No, it's the coroner, it might be the weather, it could be anything else. Why not focus on investments that promote primary production? It's gonna take our tongue to say it until the last day we're in here. This primary production that has supported and kept our country standing for decades. Especially today, with the huge problem of adequacy of goods that we face, I think we should invest on land, on agricultural production, is more necessary than ever. Now, we're going to some other topics, because these days, we're starting to get the poolies home. First bills are on their way. Because the theory is good, but the accounts are now starting to come to the house by act providers and the Greeks really open them up with horror. At the moment, our country and the Greek citizens are energy-dependent from foreigners, from countries that are not only friendly to us, and we have reached a point like this, at the time when we are facing this problem, you are rushing with an incredible obsession with the Prime Minister - I do not know if you all agree with that, the MPs or the ministers - to close or abolish lignites. The lignite that our country has too many stocks that it could export, especially now that the Greeks' budget has been poured into the air. I note that Germany continues to invest in lignite, modernises lignite plants, makes billions of investments. That's the kind of thing we could do. When you have lignite reserves of more than 300,000,000,000 euros, investing 1 000,000,000 euros is nothing, but we throw them in the bucket of unpurpose. The closure of lignite plants in Kozani and mines, of course, have led the inhabitants of the wider area there to despair and instead of the Prime Minister listening to them the day before yesterday, he refused to meet them. The Greek households are being put by the large wave of revaluations and the purchasing power has been reduced to a minimum. They've expensive everything. Not just the electricity. If you had a question, let us tell you here today that this week - here in the Minutes - we will present it at the end of my speech - the Greeks paid the most expensive fuel in Europe, after the Scandinavian and Dutch. That's the relative list. Luxembourg, for example, with a minimum wage of EUR 2,200, pays gasoline 1,48 euros and Swiss EUR 1,62 euros. The Greek 1,76. They gave him an increase of 2%, a half euros a day. We've made Greek over Europe. You will, of course, tell me now that you compare Greece with Luxembourg. Who should I compare it to Somalia? With Luxembourg I will compare it with Switzerland. We keep talking about excise duty, we keep talking about taxes. You have devastated the world. The world has come to be afraid to light the air conditioner for a little heating. And you know, today in Thessaly it snowed, yesterday in Epirus it snowed in the mountains. West Macedonia, too. It is not all of Greece, Kolonaki, where we are in the hot area outside, the world is suffering. Mr President, today I think that the government and Mr Mitsotakis have exceeded themselves. It's creepy the measure announced by the Prime Minister, it's obsessed, it's vexing, it's unwilling, it's an incredible measure with the fine it will impose on those who are over sixty years old and are uninvasive. But are you serious? When you're talking about arguments, is that an argument to convince the Greek to go to vaccination? All right, you've failed it with the pagans you made in front of the Symposia and the Royals and now you're fined to the top of the sixty. Who tells us that in a few days, it won't happen more than fifty and it's going to be forced slowly? Is that a argument? It's unbelievable. People who have eaten their lives by offering Greece workers so many years to fine them EUR 1,200 a year. Now, of course, money was found to give two self test gifts. We were saying that tests should be carried out all the time, both by vaccinated and unvaccinated, in order to have a mapping and to know where we are. But elsewhere they pay 80 cents the self test and 1 euro, here we pay it 6.8 or 10 euros. And of course, Mr President, I cannot comment - apart from this shameful fine to the over sixty - and the amendment tabled by the government today, namely the shamefulness you bring about new money in the channels, and Mr Economou has come to tell us that 'we have transparency, we have made corrections'. For transparency to prevail! This is a confession of remula, that the money that has been made available in the previous period has not been transparently provided. Clear things. You shared the fat in a lot of newspapers. In another Chamber in Parliament, the Examination is under way. That's what we're talking about, how you've taken every scratch of the system so you don't tremble, how they took money from the Greek people newspapers, how you influence the world and public opinion, how willingly soldiers are in your slavery - and I'm sorry to say it as a journalist, almost all of the media - with journalists being locked up in this general without being able to react, because they too want to feed their families. You come today to tell us that you are putting transparency in the way you share the state money, the "blooded" money of the Greek people, Greeks and Greeks. That's who you really are. You think people forget. You think that by extortion, obsessed, you will be able to convince the Greeks. You have not realised that the crew of time is coming and you will politically pay very expensively all of what you are doing. Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, too, Mr. Heta. The Minister for Development and Investment Mr Adonis Georgiadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u94	Thank you very much, Mr President. I thank all my colleagues for the constructive discussion of the Ministry of Development's draft law on strategic investment in Parliament's Committees. I would like to begin by taking the thread of what the previous Greek Parliamentary spokesman said about the difficult, not easy, but nationally absolutely necessary decision taken today by the Prime Minister and the Government regarding compulsory vaccination of people over 60 years of age. Ladies and gentlemen, there are moments in politics where national duty exceeds political cost. That is where it is judged, Mr. Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution, what is the true love of everyone for the country and not the one that suits them to bring votes. Is there even one who believes that today's decision is a politically easy and politically convenient decision for the government and the Prime Minister, or do we have a Prime Minister who, for strange reasons, wants to lose votes and become unpleasant in the world rather than pleasant? It is quite obvious that we all realise how difficult this decision is politically. On the other hand, however, I believe that those who have an elementary sense of patriotism and an elementary sense of humanity understand that, now that things have arrived, are about a one-way street and, of course, in the vote in this House, they will be judged and what each one of us actually believes. What is the situation with the pandemic in Greece today? We have a fourth wave that has led to Intensive Treatment Units and unfortunately to death by 97% people over 60 years of age. Of this 97%, 95% are invasive. Has the government tried and given the time needed to persuade these fellow citizens to be vaccinated? In our opinion, yes. And campaigns were held and the parties were placed, and the doctors spoke and reported on the television networks and everything was done. However, unfortunately, an important portion of these people to date remains inconsistent. Here, my dear fellow Member, two ways are life. One, the easy way to the government, would be to say "they are not vaccinated, some of them will die, apparently enough, according to the predictive models of several thousand of them, to be honest, but we did what we could and it's okay, since they will die because they are not vaccinated, let them die, as long as we don't lose votes". This is obviously the easy political path, but also the completely immoral one. There is also the other way, however, the one the Prime Minister chose to say "I will be temporarily unpleasant, I will obviously be, but I will know that I have saved thousands of people from death, I will have saved thousands of families from mourning, I will have saved the National Health System from an insurmountable pressure that this pandemic and the perseverance of people, especially that of this age group, do not get vaccinated". [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The question that has often been asked is why Greece has so many deaths in relation to other European countries that vaccination rates are about the same, for example Austria or Germany, the answer is obvious to anyone who has eyes to see. Yes, but in general vaccination, we are more than 60 years old. We are far away from ancient Greek, that is, far away. In northern Europe 90% to 100% in this age group, in Greece 65% to 70%. You, Mr. Colleague, who speaks of the country so hard, let them die. We will collect the political cost, but we will know that we have done our duty for our fellow humans, but also for our country. I would like to assure the Members of the New Democracy that this was not an easy decision. It was a difficult decision. We weighed her a lot. The doctors have explained to us what the health risk is. The development of the pandemic even with the new "Omicon" mutation now creates accelerated threats in which our country must work faster and prevent evolution rather than watch it happen. Of course, beyond all this health dimension and the human dimension that we all understand, there is obviously also the economic dimension. Greece can't stand a lockdown anymore, it can't withstand a collapse of the health system, it can't withstand people being unable to enjoy basic health services because some of their fellow citizens decided not to be vaccinated and eventually ended up in hospitals and in Intensive Therapy Units. So now it will seem who really loves homeland and who is not here to make difficult decisions and who is here for votes. I say this because I have heard things before. I'm going into the bill discussion. First of all, I will say that we are tabling the Ministerial Amendment of the Ministry of Development. It's in the short term. It is Amendment No 1145/92. It has nothing particularly important in political matters. It concerns, for example, antiseptics, which we have all voted on several times for rapid licensing, etc. The only thing that may be of some political interest to mention is that in Article 3 we have a ban on the importation of finished cannabis medicinal products. I want to explain why we've gone. As you know, we have passed the law on cannabis medication to motivate Greece to produce cannabis medication, investment in Greece, jobs in Greece and all that we have said in the bill. Some who consider that there is a 'grey zone' in this area have rushed to request an import permit for cannabis medicinal products. We are clear that it was not our intention that the country should ever have imported cannabis products in order to sell the companies that produce them abroad, but our aim was to create a domestic export product and jobs. So we are not allowed to import. It is a drug and we could do so by European legislation. Marketing authorisation for cannabis medicinal products will take from the EOF those companies that will obtain permission to produce cannabis medicinal products in Greece, will hire people and will do what SYRIZA Law and our own, as amended. (OR) I believe that we cannot have any real disagreement on this - I am tabling the amendment on the Minutes - because the political will of all of us in the time we voted on the law was the added value of staying in Greece. Otherwise, we could just make an introduction from the beginning and end the whole story. [[At this point the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is located in the Archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Some people on the market are more wicked than the state. We hadn't predicted that then that someone would think of doing it. So we come now and close this door so there is no doubt about it. I come now, dear Nikos and dear Christos, to the bill. I may not have come to the committees because I did not have time, but I had the receiver open and I saw the whole meeting, as I know you do sometimes when our obligations are holding us in our office. I have listened particularly to my friend, Mr Arsenis, who I do not see here today, who said three - four times that this bill is the bill of Adonai Georgiadis and reflects his name on the bill. I would like, for reasons of historical order, to give credit to the real authors of the bill, Mr. Nikos Papathanases, whom I particularly congratulate, Mr. Orestes Kavalakis and his three partners who worked very hard, Paula, Vasso and Willy, to make this bill. Indeed, this team worked, and I want the people who work to receive praise and credit. That's fair in politics and life. The bill is excellent. Of course, not only do I support it, I am proud that during my ministerial term the Ministry of Development legislates this bill. And I want to tell you how this bill happened and why this bill was made. This bill was made because when we took over with Nikos at the beginning of our term to run some projects, such as the Greek, the most emblematic, or the Cassiope or the Hills Valley, we did an ad hoc, so let's say, a committee of ours within the Ministry of Development to coordinate the relevant ministries and see where the processes were. The experience we have gained from our practical effort to unblock investments that have been stuck for many years has given us the knowledge that all of what we say 'investments in Greece', we recorded it on a paper, the group I mentioned has taken a legislative initiative, and the New Democracy Parliamentary Group and those of the opposition - obviously welcome - will vote for it, not good for the government, but good for Greece. The aim of the bill is to speed up investment, to make it easier, not to trouble people, to provide real services - I do not like to use the very English expressions, but this is how it has prevailed - one stop shop, that is to say, to go to a point and to know what is going on. And to have fun with the concerns that unfortunately for many years our Greece has had that it is a country that if you go to invest you will be in trouble. We wanted to send a clear message to everyone that our Greece is a country that if you go to investment, you will do your job and you will be happy and proud of what you have created and of course you will win. And because I kept listening to the committee from various different people that 'they want to earn money', we do not tell any investor that 'Come to Greece to lose money'. We say: 'Come to Greece or you'll be making money'. Because "injurious" many on the planet you can't find. But speculators in the good sense can. As long as they respect your national legislation, European legislation, environmental legislation, labour legislation and do what they need to do. One more criticism I have heard - I think Mr Famelos said it - is that we do not have a plan, it is written 'on the foot'. Okay, these are easy phrases in the House. They're taking me all like Coca - Cola. But it doesn't matter, because they're just to be said, they're homogeneous. In fact, the Ministry of Development and Investment is doing one, perhaps for the first time in history, completely coordinated effort on a single project, the same project as the basic guidelines for which the Pissaridis Committee has drawn up and told us what parts of the Greek economy can be of great growth in the coming years: technology, the green economy, industrial production, agricultural production, tourism and logistics. What scientists have defined and explained to us why they are our comparative advantages is the main roadmap and the draft law on strategic investment, which buttons on them and of course adds activities that previous laws did not have, such as data centers and so on. Up there will also be the new development law. The Recovery Fund's up there. There's the new ESRB stepping up there. And so for the first time all our financial instruments are moving on a single project. It is the exact opposite of what Mr Famelos claimed. Of course, our aim is to give investors speed - take care of something very important - and legal certainty, because no one goes to invest in a country that fears that the investment will be found in the courts next day, that the investment will be stopped, the interest will run, its investors will be moaned and so on. Some criticism has been made of the article on the shrine by a number of colleagues and by some media of mass communication. I would like to say that this criticism, in my opinion, is completely unfair. The review had two levels. I heard one before Mr Heta: 'Give the beaches to be exploited'. Calm down! Mr. Heta, let's talk like reasonable people at last. I can assure you that - I have been a small party MEP - anyone who speaks reasonably and rightly, people understand it and wins it. Whoever says lymphs in the end loses. A large investor is coming to spend - we are talking about strategic investments - 100, 200, 300 million to make a tourist investment in front of the sea. What do you think? Will someone give that money indifferent to the sea ahead? It will say that 'he happened to have a sea ahead'. Can you believe it? If you believe it, you go out and find these investors to bring us to know them who these good people are. Because you too understand that what you are saying is an exaggeration - not to say a heavier word - because obviously someone who goes to give 300 or 400 or 500 million is interested in the sea in front, and now see how the development of this sea can be done in a constitutional way, without depriving him - he says - access to the cavalry to every Greek citizen and environmentally sound, without harming the environment and at the same time giving the investor the legal certainty he has told you before, who knows what he can make, where he can make it, what he can't make and where he can't fix it. Do you honestly see anything absurd about this? Do you think that's wrong? Do you think that shouldn't be there? Some people now say: 'But they will violate our environmental legislation'. I beg your pardon, whoever says that is to state publicly that he does not have the slightest confidence in the Council of State. To have no confidence in us, to have no confidence in the general secretaries who have to meet with the competent body, in the ministries, to say that 'fuck my child, this government is people who want to sell everything' and use all the phrases of the past - which I am very unpleasant - to accept as arguments. But, after the adoption of a Presidential Decree. That is, whatever we plan and decide, we bad people should go to the Council of State, approve it by the Council of State, and only after the adoption of the Council of State has been published and applied. Excuse me, is anyone seriously accusing that the Council of State, with the environmental sensitivity that we all know it also has with the legal formation that we all know it has, that it will do the favour of Georgiadis, Papathanassis and every businessman while they will violate environmental legislation and destroy the beach? Hey, guys, are we serious about this in Greece? Do you not want to have a civilised debate of civilised people with serious arguments once? We have put the President-in-Office's decree just so there is no need to worry anyone that any kind of national or European legislation can be violated. But on the other hand, we have to give the foreign investor a clear landscape for what he can do and what he can't do. The fact that we are serious and with such high tone something so self-evident to me goes beyond me. Unless you don't have any interest in having investments in Greece, if you don't care whether we have investments and everything else is hypocrisy. Or unless you have investors who don't care about anything, they bring their money and leave. In fact the bill and speed up investment and speed up transparency and control and make the investment environment in Greece safer. Because from the time the Presidential Decree is issued, everyone will know what to do. And there no matter how much the court goes against him, the Presidential Decree can do nothing to him, because the Council of State has checked it out. That's what the bill does. The JRC will obviously vote against from ideological point of view. He doesn't want private investment, etc. That's another matter. That's where I respect it. I obviously disagree, but it has a clear position. He says kids, I don't want investments. You cannot say that you do not want investments without saying 'no'. In other words, you want investment and you say 'no' to that, it's not possible. That can't be. Or you're a liar, hypocrite! Say I'm a communist and the case is over. Let's all be clean, let us know what everyone says in here. All together, however, they don't become children. A very serious argument for someone who believes that investing in Greece is a good thing and saying "no" in this bill does not exist. Now one last. Because that is what I want to hear, you will allow me, because that is why we are entering politics. I have said since the first day that I took over this difficult portfolio, following the mandate of the Prime Minister, that it is a great responsibility and a great honour, obviously, but that ministry also has a political risk to its own political leader. What's his political risk? This isn't theories. Here the result of the work of the Minister is perfectly measurable. It's not a department theory that you're going to say I made a nice prefecture, and if he's handsome, or he's not handsome, you and five others know it. Here he is, did you catch fish? Did you come back with a fish, or did you return with an empty horn? This is the Ministry. So I'm telling you, to know some evidence. Ernst and Young publishes an index. It is the only large foreign house that has been publishing an indicator for foreign direct investment in every country of Europe for several years. Not the European Union, Europe. That counts fifty-two countries. The day we swore we were in position thirty-five. In a year we went to position twenty-six. And now we're aiming at the first ten. Just listen to the House. This year's third edition of Ernst and Young's research on investment in Greece records these trends and says: "In 2020...", a year after we took responsibility, "... Greece recorded a particularly important leap towards attracting foreign direct investment". Based on EY Investment Monitor data, an extensive database prepared by Ernst and Young, and tracking investments, etc., Greece attracted thirty-nine large foreign direct investment - this indicator counts more than 150 million - compared to twenty-two in 2019. The best thing: The title reads "Espectiveness for the future and increased prospects for improvement" and says: "The investors who have been asked worldwide, at 75%...", the highest in all fifty two countries, the number one, that is, "...they estimate that the image of investment in Greece over the next three years will be improved". One of the reasons why they appreciate it is that they believe that the government understands what the problems of Greek legislation are and will solve them. And one tangible proof that what we think we're doing is today's bill. I have been allowed to speak on a personal note just before I close. The Editorial Newspaper, one of my favorite newspapers - and she loves me very much, is well known - writes yesterday with great titles. Nico, I don't know if you saw it. We presented our bill with Mr. Papathanassis and Mr. Dimas the other day and wrote the "Recipients' Newspaper" with great titles: "Laws cut and sewn for investors". Thank them. They probably wrote it down to blame me. I want to be extremely honest. They found it so investing that I've given it to do it and to remember, to see that my children are proud of their father. Because that is what we want to do, bills that will help investors to do their job. What, then, do we want to have bills that do not serve investors? And after we make bills that don't serve investors, we'll wonder why we don't have investments? Guys, it's not all happening. The bill is excellent. Nico, you deserve warm congratulations. To a serious person, who is not a communist - there I repeat, it is ideological, I am not going to talk, it is another world - in the world that we live in, namely in the world of capitalism, in the world of free market, in the world of united Europe, an argument to vote against this bill. Not even a half! Because the bill does the very self-evident things that should have been done for many years. There'd been a couple of half of them. I want to be honest here. It continues an effort of previous laws that actually went somewhere on the way. I'm not saying it all happened today, to be honest. But we saw where it sticks and we fixed what's stuck. This has nothing to do with whether you're a New Democracy, or whether you're a KINAL, or whether you're voting for SYRIZA or nothing. It's about whether you want Greece to invest or not. We do. We are proud that in the last report of the European Commission, when the revision of data on the development of the Greek economy was announced in 2021, there was for the first time a whole paragraph about the leap in the record of investment in Greece this year. You realise that I, as Minister of Investment, and Mr Papathanassis, Deputy Minister of Investment and Mr Dimas as Deputy Minister of Investment, can only be happy when we read that Greece has taken its most impressive step towards investment in recent years. This is the fruit of our work. I can assure you, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, that with the same passion we will continue in the future in order to bring unemployment even further down than it has fallen in recent months and to reach what we want, namely a low one-digit figure. Because we're glad it fell, but this is where it's big. We want it to go a lot further. We want jobs to be born, our country to return and to become Greece as we dream of it. In this effort, this bill is an important link and I call on colleagues to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u95	We also thank the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Georgiadis. And now I will give the floor to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Skreka, to put it on the table with a general number of 1147 and a special 94. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mr President. Very briefly, I would like to table the amendment with a general number of 1147 and a special 94, which contains five articles. The first article is about the amendment that we are able to make to the town plan of the Municipality of Attica for PYRKAL, which the Prime Minister had visited a few months ago, to create a government park the Cyber Park of "Andreas Ledakis", where nine different ministries that are currently scattered throughout Attica will be gathered. A large part of an area of 155 acres will be used to build a building that will host, welcome services of nine ministries and a large part of the area will of course be upgraded, regenerated and delivered to the inhabitants and thus upgrade the area and of course the quality of life of the inhabitants there. Article 2 entitled "Creating a shared area of forest recreation in the Eye of the Municipality of Marathona" relates to an area of forest nature. There was a camp, it was abandoned, and we allow it to be granted to the public or to the municipality for exclusive use the upgrading of the forest environment and the use of forest recreation by the inhabitants and visitors of the area. The third article is about suspending recovery and sanctions for arbitrary constructions in the Evros Delta region. We are giving a year of extension to the implementation, of course, as demanding by the Members of the region who have asked for it and, of course, by the inhabitants. There is therefore a suspension of the imposition of sanctions for constructions that have been erected in a non-legal manner. Article 4 also concerns the possibility of resolving a chronic issue in the area of Pavlos Mela in Thessaloniki, a long-term demand for residents, which had been allocated to them a previous year. These lands that had been allocated to the inhabitants were for other use than that which eventually ended up having, that is, in the end, the inhabitants raised dwellings so that they could live. It has been a long time since the building of these dwellings was completed. We therefore give the opportunity to grant these lands by ownership for this use to the inhabitants, and in this way opens the way for legalisation, for these constructions to be settled, so that we can solve a timely problem that is afflicting them. Also, with Article 5, we are able to settle and change the use of existing port installations that have been erected beforehand with a non-legal authorisation from the administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u97	Thank you too, Minister. Mrs. Perka has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to ask the Minister a question, since I welcome him to a bill which concerns him very much and has rather withdrawn. Minister, I would like you to make it clear to me a little bit as far as PYRKAL is concerned: Firstly, in what design, I mean regulatory, town planning, this is part of it. Secondly, if there is a decision of the municipal council and if you have consulted the local society, because from what I know over time they disagree. Also, if there are environmental and traffic studies before we take a decision. I mean, we have a conversation about investments. If we do not plan and clean the landscape and the obstacles, unfortunately, nothing will happen. Unless it's been - so I'm asking you - some study about all this or if we closed the eye, well we're going to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u99	Thank you. Mrs Manolakou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u100	Minister, I refer to Article 4 for the concession of a municipality of Paul Mela. Indeed, it is a long-term request that the settlement of the meteors of a people's neighborhood, which for many years had been fleeing there, built arbitrarily overnight to survive. So this problem should have been solved for many years. However, in this article you are establishing terms and conditions and economic conditions. Why do you think they have the financial capacity to join? The terms and conditions you make are that some may not be able to. In fact, as far as we know about these terms, the city council has not agreed. Therefore, it is a provision without a reflection.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u101	Mr. Katrinis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I think it would be more honest and honest of you to bring in a bill in which all the provisions on arbitrary buildings, suspensions of time limits, suspensions of demolition protocols and not to bring us into every bill, almost two, three provisions on either new provisions for the suspension of demolition or extension of earlier bills. Once it is a political decision of the Mitsotakis Government not to apply any framework to arbitrary construction, but to make extensions a rule rather than an exception, you should have the courage to do so. Secondly, in this context, I would like to ask you this: you come with Article 5 and apply retroactively a 2017 legislation on installations and arbitrary buildings. That thing you have to explain to us. In a 2011 law you have added the provision of Law 4495/2017 and you say that two months after the entry into force of this Law, what the article says applies. I think we are creating problems and instead of making legislation more flexible and simpler, it becomes more complex. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u103	Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u104	I will start from what the representative of the Communist Party of Greece said, Mr President, and I will say that the New Democracy is a people's party and is therefore interested in giving a solution to the people's masses and people's districts. In fact, there, at Paul Mela, other parties found themselves in the rule of this place, supposedly, popular. I am referring to the previous period, of course, which did not provide a solution. The New Democracy, however, is a truly great folk party that cares about citizens and the world and gives a solution in this way. It is a solution, however, which is permanent and is not at risk in terms of law, and in terms of the strong resolution, ultimately, of the issue in a way that will not be jeopardised in the future, perhaps, by a crisis of the Council of State. That is why we are also trying to incorporate all the principles and laws contained in the Council of State, the decisions of the Council of State and the Constitution of Greece, in order to give a truly strong, legally strong, sustainable solution to these people. That is why it is included - and it does not mention the height - the possibility of a return so that the legal basis on which we come and give today is indeed even stronger, so that, once and for all, we leave behind this great problem for the inhabitants of the region, a people's neighbourhood, as you said, to Paul Mella in Meteora Thessaloniki. As far as PYRKAL is concerned, your concerns are reasonable. We can send you after the end of the meeting the presentation had been presented by the Prime Minister responsible, Mr Papathanases, when we had visited the site there. If you have visited him, which I am sure you will probably have visited the site, you will have seen that he is a hundred and fifty-nine acres, full of building infrastructure, some of them of very important cultural value, which are ready to collapse from desertification and from the indifference that so far, unfortunately, surrounds them. We are, however, coming to show this. This place is fenced. We leave this space open, we gather new ministries, services, the entire area is upgraded and a large part of the land of the hundred and fifty-nine acres will be attributed to the inhabitants, who today have not been assigned, for use through a stunning and beautiful regeneration that will take place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u105	And we thank the Minister. The speaker of the New Democracy, Mr. Xenophilas Baraliakos, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u106	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this draft law by the Ministry of Development and Investment attempts to establish rules aimed at improving the investment environment in our country, speeding up and flexible the administrative procedures envisaged, for the strategies and private investment. At the same time, it promotes systemicisation in a single legislative framework of the way in which a technocratic company, known as spin-off, is set up and run, with the main aim of simplifying procedures, removing ambiguities identified in the existing legislative framework and modernising it. So starting with the strategic investment in investment in international economic activities of marketable products and services, the legal framework is amended to join the category of strategic investment and new modern sectors of our economy. For example, agri-food, biotechnology, waste and waste management, digital reshaping of businesses, robotics and artificial intelligence, providing computing clouds, data centres and business parks. The framework for the budget is also amended, which is now reduced to qualifying for an investment as a strategy, taking into account combined factors such as the number of job-creating young people, but also whether the investment relates to new, modern sectors. At the same time, incentives are provided for strategic investment, such as incentives for placement, rapid licensing incentives, fast track procedures, tax incentives, capital incentives and tax residence. A key condition in the process of evaluating such an investment is, as clearly described in the draft law, that jobs are created with emphasis on skilled personnel. Strategic investments can produce quantitative and qualitative results of significant intensity to increase employment. With this draft law we show our intention to move even stronger in this direction, continuing to fulfil the election commitment and vision of our Prime Minister, Mr.Mitsotakis, for many and good jobs and more specifically for the qualified staff to create the conditions that will provide opportunities, but also for the high-trained scientific potential that we have and will reverse the painful phenomenon of our country of Brain Drain, bringing our children back to their homes, back to a Greece that is changing. In the case of private investment, the possibility of placing new activities is strengthened and accelerated, for which there is a strong investment interest. In particular, Articles relating to the competent bodies for receiving applications for investment projects are amended, the documentation and evaluation process, the control and monitoring of implementation and how the approved aid and benefits are paid. For investments of over EUR 1,000 000, the Directorate-General for Private Investment of the Ministry of Development and Investment is now responsible. The evaluation stage includes sworn auditors, who are already involved in the audit phase of investment projects under previous development laws, and an important instrument is established that sets out to a series the investment projects of all stakeholders, which is no other than the time of the administrative decisions on the certification of interim phases of implementation of investment projects that may not exceed 30 days from the submission of the relevant audit reports or attestations. In that regard, the Register of Observers of Accountants is hereby established. Finally, the framework is created for companies - technicians, the wider known as spin-off, which are companies that have as their object the commercial and business exploitation of the research results and their direct interconnection with the real economy in our country and are, at last, established by members of academic or research staff of the research organisations. Investigators shall be entitled to participate as executive members of the technician, to be employed in him by a project contract and to provide research or advisory support. Techniques can be contractors and in such a case they are treated like any other private company. The draft law cures, with the present regulations, the shortcomings in the spin-off companies, such as the lack of technology transfer offices through the ESRB call and the lack of funding to a very large extent through the financial instruments of the Investment Fund of Entrepreneurial Participation, which since 2018, as well as through the actions of the ESRB, such as "Research - I Create Innovation" and other technological maturation. The proposed arrangements codified in a single legislative framework the way in which a technology company is set up and operated, with the main aim of opening wide open the way to investors who intend to invest in these companies, from the development of which, taking into account the investment interest in these companies in our country and, more generally, in the newly-born businesses, benefit the Greek economy by increasing employment and strengthening prosperity. Finally, why not multiply now that there will be a framework that is company-friendly at home for the first time. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law incorporates the business future of our country with more jobs, especially for our young people, but also a comprehensive business and economic development for the whole country. It is a great bet that will improve the lives of Greek citizens. The direction of the Ministry of Development and Investment is stable, clear and identical to the new global business reality. We build a modern, thriving and competitive Greece that will reverse the Brain drain in Brain gain, a Greece that gives prospects to each Greek and every Greek and will keep our children active in the productive mechanism of our country. So I call on you to vote on this draft law and all to join together in this great leap that we are taking towards development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u107	And we thank Mr. Baraliaco. The New Democracy MP, Mrs Brysidou, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this bill sets the rules and defines the country's development and investment strategy. It is assumed that it was our election commitment to economic recovery, to secure jobs, to develop and, of course, to improve economic indicators. It is also undeniable that, in order for the economy to recover, we should also be able to have jobs for young people for growth through them. Investments and foreign capital, but also the utilization of the Greek capital, need some improvements, which already existed to some extent, but, unfortunately, we have seen greedy investment efforts for many years and some have never been implemented. This situation has not only discouraged interested parties themselves, but also many others who have been thinking about investing here in our home country. And in areas where there is a great need for growth, as is my area, where we are going through a new model of energy production and change of the whole profile, the need for investment is enormous. However, those who are going to have to know that they can walk this project and not just remain in the effort. So we have the strategic investments to which the framework is now expanding, allowing not only more but also those that will work. Strategic investments are those that have a budget of EUR 75 million. They are the ones that have 40 million euros and they ensure 75 units of annual jobs. They are the ones that are 30 million euros and they ensure 50 jobs. But here we have the advantageous extension of the 20 million specific investments which are in agri-food processes, are in innovative actions, are in research, is in what we say progress and progress and we want to come to our home country - and, of course, it is what can get into this framework - and the very special investments which, with a three-member team of experts with knowledge on this subject, can choose and classify them in that category that can be financed by the Recovery Fund. All these measures and all this enlargement enables investment to go beyond the time-consuming procedures for the adoption of environmental conditions, which were sometimes never approved for some typical deadlocks. Indeed, a common mind could not understand how it is possible for jobs to be lost, for large sums of money to come home because one of the sectors is not convenient and is not practical, as well as various urban processes which have often blocked investments. Of course the long time before all the administrative acts were adopted was also a back-up factor, because the investment wants to be at the right moment and, of course, the businessman, when he loses time, loses money, loses opportunities. So this is also very important to get on a proper basis. Because now we're not talking about theories, we're talking about the act. And the deed and the economy neither play nor wait. This is how the process is done: the investor belonging to this category of strategic investment if it is up to a million to submit his proposal to the region concerned to be controlled by the mechanisms and services. But over this amount will go to the Ministry of Development in the Special Secretariat, where there will be committees and working groups and vows who are obliged to issue the necessary administrative permits so that practical, rapid and effective progress can be made in the next step. Finally, I want to refer to the technocrats, an important part also to be mentioned, and we need to praise them, because we are talking about this area very often. We have often submitted our views to committees, to the media or to the business and professional sectors. But now this government and the Ministry are bringing law to enable the investigation to take place. To enable the researcher who participates through the university in an effort study and finds all the data that can be exploited, his job not to stop there. On the other hand, the company which is interested in an advantageous given that it is able to use it with the people who have worked in this direction. Because that's how the data are completely different. And researchers are in the mood because they will see what they have thought and what they have managed to do, they feel they can have a part of this development as well. And so the private initiative will bring even greater steps and even more advantages. On the other hand, the research centres and universities that are high-standard have achieved important things, will be able to show them within our country. There will be no ideas that will leave the border of Greece to be implemented outside, but at the same time they will be able within our country to bring a result to both the businessman and the researcher. I think this draft law is a hope for regions such as mine, but also for the whole of our country, is a hope for the recovery of the economy. Of course, we will follow it closely, because we need information and we need to call on those who are interested in using these tools, because these tools will combat unemployment and bring the development we hope in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u109	We also thank Mrs Brezidou and the consistency in time. The speaker of the New Democracy, Mr Savvas Snowides, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are coming to discuss a draft law, which is a book on how to move in the next few years. I will say something that is interesting and is not mine: adapt to the future before finding you unprepared. Here, then, we see that while living in the vortex of a global coronary crisis, the government continues its work forcefully in all areas, regardless of whether the headlights fall on these tracks. So we come to Greece of pluralism. Here, then, is a good example of this, where L.4608/2019 and L.3894/2010 are now a single legislative text. Is that important? Of course, it is important that we know where we are going and how we are going in every case and especially for those who want to invest. What did the New Democracy propose to be voted on in 2019? I'll be standing on the economics and the development. He suggested stability, Greece became a pole of stability. That is why - just to say it in simple words - someone is investing in the United Kingdom or Switzerland. Because they have a very high stability index. The country risk risk, that is, the risk report when one invests in a country, is important? It is. Is Greece improving? We don't. That is what all international organisations say. This is why the investment risk in Greece is decreasing and this is a good stability platform for investment. We also have the economic climate indicator. You will tell me: 'This is what everyone understands?' They must now enter our vocabulary. What is the economic climate indicator for Greece in this huge pandemic? At 112,5 units. How old was he in September? It was 109.7. I read: 'In the warp of the lower marker since 2011, Germany'. Greece, with this government, with this Prime Minister, is slowly approaching the maximum 20 years in 2000. Then it was 116. We're too close. So there's also confidence. Do we have growth? Is the $190 billion of domestic product, GDP known to be improving? How much? The government, careful and modest, spoke at first about 4% or 5%. The Prime Minister at the Report said that it is more, although all the international organisations saw a different development. And I'll just say it to understand. To add 12 billion to the 189 billion that is now, money really, that increasing your income is like a local householder who took EUR 20,000 a year to be able to raise this to EUR 22,000 a year. So here's how this case is being housed. And that's evidence we've got. Is an increase in average family income significant? Yeah, it's 7%. The banks' deposits increased by 35 billion and the majority of them belong to small households, small, medium-sized and medium-sized enterprises, employees, private, public or small enterprises? These are the evidence. Now, someone will tell me, isn't there anything negative? Of course, the consumer confidence index has some trivialities lately and this is because of the external accuracy of fuels, as well as the tensions we have with the issue of coronary war. But he's not that low too. He hasn't suffered such a harm justifying it. Therefore, this law helps the investment climate, we create an investment environment, as described in its headline. I will not go into details because our rapporteur, Christos Tarantilis, has made such an excellent and detailed suggestion, and indeed not in a teacher's style, but in a sense that is understandable to everyone. Therefore, I will not go into the detail that we all know and heard from many colleagues. However, I would like to point out the following: are the flagship investments not those of the green economy? Only billions count? How hundreds of millions of dollars do we put in? We all hear about biotechnology. We're talking about a green economy. We are talking, for example, about the production of green hydrogen. Is it or is it not tomorrow, to which we adapt with this law to help? The German Government is currently investing EUR 9 billion for the creation of pipelines for green hydrogen. So we're in the right direction. And that's not what we call it outside. We say that, too, whoever we want to see with realism. We are pleased that 12 foreigners have a positive view of the Greek economy. And of course, this will help tomorrow, which is close to us. And maybe someone will say: Are you too optimistic? Yeah, I'm a realist. And with realism we say that as much as there is tension right now and all the headlights are on the covid -19, I say that they are on the rampage level, with the level of vaccination that we have achieved - and we will achieve even more - with the drugs that are coming. To me the anxiety, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, is one: how can we use the highly built system of the state mechanism to absorb this money of 72 billion? That is the big problem, as well as how these amounts will move from private individuals to more than 100 billion. Are we ready? It seems here and in the bill clearly that it is no longer bad at all, certified bodies or individuals being able to make the assessments. It is a pity that we have not yet succeeded in the seven hundred and fifty days that small investors in the regions are doing to reduce them. We must do this, Minister. I know your efforts. It is very important that you have reduced the amounts. The Committees at last give more power. For in addition to the major strategic investments, as well as the flagships, this small economy, the small and very small ones, is that which supports the Greek economy and that is where we must pay attention. And I would be delighted if those privileges of strategic investment could be translated into small and smaller enterprises in the daily lives of the citizen fighting in difficult conditions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will end in a minute. We are glad that after a long time we will see the first startup operations enter the Stock Exchange. You don't need millions anymore. Maybe with 100,000 euros. We must applaud it. So here's how it prepares properly for the future, for the optimistic tomorrow of Greece. That is why we prefer huge businesses and smaller entrepreneurs, because we have created a framework of stability and I would simply say a framework of common sense. The Triumph as a transit centre is going on decades. I will conclude by saying that at some point when they are discussing how to convince a Greek American to come to make an investment - high enough for the province's levels - EUR 3 million, the man answered very logically with American logic: 'Okay, to come to do it. And who guarantees me that I will move forward and I will not delay then'? "But why do you say that? We'll all help." He says: "You have a flagic investment in the Greek that is a flag for you and cannot go any further. Will you move on to mine, which is small and secondary? The Greek is moving forward, dynamically, but at the same time, the "data centers", the "cloud computing", the provision of computing clouds around the world, and many of us were chosen to be the center. Here is the Greece of tomorrow, tomorrow, which is close to us, so that we can make the leap of take-off. I conclude, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, by saying that the New Democracy despite all the major crises, refugees, Greek-Turkish, Greek-Turkish -19 was not far from its central programme for which it was voted, nor was it a line. It was better than what he promised and not worse in these circumstances. So that gives me reasonable optimism, the conviction, that Greece's future - if we solve issues and go away, and this loot that is on the way - is very important to believe that it is for our children tomorrow. Greece has changed level, changed season, changed page and that cannot be brought back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, too. The speaker of SYRIZA now has the floor, Mr Evangelos Apostolos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Snowides, you may have been distracted and indeed put on balance the absorption of EUR 72 billion, and on the other hand, human lives are too hard.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u113	I don't compare unparalleled things.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u114	Our country is sincerely experiencing a tragedy which cannot get into other scales. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, with the current bill you are actually calling on to offer everything to reduce the demand for investment to be'strategic'. You introduce all kinds of derogation in all sizes from the required economic up to the number of jobs. Furthermore, a category of strategic investments with a flagrant investment that will of course also be provided with the resources of the Recovery Fund. The answer to the question 'and who will characterize an investment project as a flagrant' is 'a three-member committee appointed by the Ministers for Development and Finance. In other words, you are abolishing the provision of the law on strategic investments that have been classified as objectively objectively, leaving a huge margin for selective designations. Emblematic investments will be mainly active in the defoliation zones and will be strengthened by 20% in addition to investments made outside the lipomatisation zones. Here too, allow me another question. Because at this time in the area of renewable energy sources there are great battles of interest, is there any possibility of taking advantage of a emblematic investment with 100% and then going to an area outside defoliation areas that would receive 80% of the planned investment? Because we know exactly what pressures and what is happening today in this space. Environmental regulation defines a specific procedure by way of derogation from any other provision, even for ‘natura’ areas and for projects that you say do not have significant environmental impact. In this case I wonder: How can a second-class project be considered a strategic investment, given the small size and production? Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, especially those of you who represent the region, to remain on an issue that is certainly of concern to you too. We are all in front of an unprecedented attack on producers' licences of a strategic nature for wind park facilities. Something similar is also established in the current bill, giving possible urban derogations to investments in the Aegean Sea and to the beaches of the country. With these ambitious strategies - yesterday - and emblematic - it is currently confronted with the current legislation on local society in Evia, especially with investments in wind parks. Ladies and gentlemen, Evia has covered its contribution to the national objective of wind energy. Over 40% of the energy produced by wind turbines in our country comes from Evia and especially from south-central Evia. Already operating in the wider area of four hundred thirteen wind turbines in thirty-four wind farms. You seem to have not had enough of this, and you are carrying out several new permits. From the beginning of the year you have issued a hundred and twenty - four licenses, and you have been under assessment forty - seven. In other words, in total, you plan eight hundred forty-seven wind turbines. These are elements of the RAE, they're not ours. At the same time, of course, the President of RAE, Mr Dagoumas, states that what projects will be set up and on what points it is a matter that depends on the spatial planning of the RES which he does not have, which he confirmed, of course, the Secretary-General for Spatial Planning in the Committee on the Environment, Mr Bakoyannis. In other words, they grant producer licences without actually having the necessary specific spatial planning. Well, then, why do you since you see such a function, don't you stop them? Is it possible to grant licences asymmetrically and indeed to locations indicated by investors themselves? It is inconceivable, for example, that they should be proposed in areas now - but others - where there are a number of things of special and unique environmental, cultural and archaeological value. What is also a challenge to the local communities that are resisting is the assessment of the President of the RAE - listen to my fellow Members - that only one 10% or 20% of the producer licences issued will be implemented. Much more has been done in the region. Why don't you reject everything else? It reached the same point as northern Evia was fighting not only for the survival of those affected by its total destruction but also for the execution of the necessary anti-corrosion and anti-military works - that is what we were living - that RAE should come and issue producer's licenses for the installation of fifteen more wind farms in the burns. It was the reaction of the people who forced the Minister for the Environment to withdraw them. Is it possible, then, in such circumstances, for us to talk about strategic investments? How much more so when it is evident that the investors concerned have entered into a conflict procedure that is the main objective of the Recovery Fund? It is good that the municipalities and institutions as well as the inhabitants of the areas under attack react. It is also good that regional selfgovernment not only gives negative opinions but also sets conditions for subsequent opinions. For example, the area of Central Greece not only gave a negative opinion on environmental impact studies relating to the construction and operation of five wind parks in Styra, Karystos, but also expressed the desire to be negative in expressing an opinion on environmental impact studies until essential competences and not only advisory nature have been placed on the regional council. You, at the same time, refer the environmental impact study to the CSCE by violating v. 3028/2002, which stipulates in Article 12 that prior to any spatial arrangement, the existence of archaeological sites which were already on the way to show before referral to the CST. It seems, then, that for you every good that nature has delivered to man is ceased to be shared. All from the sun, the air, the water, the offer to the ambitious strategic investors. In these attitudes, ladies and gentlemen, you will always find us across the street. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Mr. Apostle. I will give Mr Snowides the floor for a minute, because Mr Apostleu said something that I did not hear. But I think Mr Snowides himself should answer that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u116	Thank you, Mr President. With all due respect to the face of Mr. Apostle who is usually mild and reasonable. So I, Mr President, address you and Mr Apostleus with you. I am responsible for what I am saying, not for what someone understands or wants to understand, with all due respect for the enormous suffering of thousands of our fellow people and especially those who have lost people, as I have lost my mother. Our respect is enormous and mine and all the government. We are all trying together in this direction. In this sense, the crises that are not in line with what I have just referred to are far from us. And to remind you, too, that today we are talking about development, we are talking about how we go ahead. And, of course, the hopeful message that with the vaccination that is very high and with the drugs that are already available to us - the government has brought them and other countries - I am sure it will soon escape the phenomenon as an endemic disease. In this sense, I call on Mr Apostleus to withdraw to this particular part that we are looking at growth and money and not human suffering. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u117	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u118	Mr President, it is enough for me to make it up to you. From that point on, those who understood, understood.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u119	Everyone takes it the way he thinks. The parliamentary representative of the New Democracy, Christos Bukokouros, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, Mr President. There is no doubt that our anxiety and our minds are among our fellow citizens who are fighting in hospitals and intensive care units. This war is not over, but this war must be given with all our powers and with all the means. And it would be an offer to the big ones to agree on and have clear positions. Investments, investment environment, economy, growth, Greek GDP, jobs, still demand for our country, despite the fact that for two and a half years at the wheel of the country there has been a Prime Minister and a government that continuously improves the legislative framework and attempts to take advantage of all the opportunities offered. We see, above all, an obsession with positions which can only lead to these opportunities being exploited and to the implementation of this development strategy. A public orientation, as if the current government were not committed to serving the public interest. A commitment to tactics that lead to delays and bureaucracy. These two features of the Greek state are intertwined with the opacity and its obsessions. He comes today to react to what? In that the ministers, Mr. Georgiadis and Mr. Papathanases take an initiative for a one-stop shop in order to speed up the examination of investment demands so as to increase the absorption that is needed. Financial instruments and programmes give us the potential to exploit many billions. The absorption rate in previous years, however, and more generally, is 25%, 30%, 40%, 50%. In an anhydrous place we offer water and we do not use it. We're throwing it at sea. This comes to correct the Law on Strategic and Emblematic Investments, ladies and gentlemen. We are ambitious, we expect, on a sound basis, that the law that we are going to vote on today will be combined with the new investment law, with the use of the resources of the Reconstruction Fund, the NSRF notices, in an environment that achieves satisfactory growth rates which, based on the budget that we will be voting on in a few days' time, amount to close to 7%. However, as previous colleagues have said, according to assessments by international organisations, it may go through 10% and close to 11%. In an environment of political stability, what is it that worldwide turns a place into an investment destination? Where are the funds, the ideas, the development proposals in our world today? Which areas? in areas with low tax rates? Not even in areas with low wages. I really would like to emphasise that, and I would point out that as a problem. They are directed at regions with political stability, firstly, low political risk. That is the first question. The first criterion. And our government and the Prime Minister, despite the repeated crises we have faced, preserve it as an eye daughter. That is why the Prime Minister's continued commitments to elections at the end of the four-year period. So political stability is the first. What's the second one? Legal certainty and legal certainty? In a case of disputed, ownership or licenseability of a financial instrument, the investor wants to know when his case will be concluded, when his proposal will be examined, when the judicial decision will be adopted, when he will join the financial instrument to which he is interested. All this together is legal certainty. I have heard some colleagues from the Officerial Representation say: 'We want patient investors.' To endure and to insist I realize they mean. How many years was that? The Qualifying Opposition has not yet seen that we live in a competitive world, that the investment that will leave Greece will go to neighbouring Turkey or to another part of the world. It is better to say that "I don't want all the investments and tell the state what investments will be made and I'm a prisoner and I don't hide it, it has to control everything in the state." than saying "Come on, investors, we are prosperous, but you'll expect five, six, ten years, when accession will come out, when the judicial decision will come to pass, when administrative procedures and authorisations will be completed." Is that what you mean, ladies and gentlemen? The second is legal certainty. The third aspect is the tax rates and all that. Because all this can be budgeted by each candidate investor. It is well known from the outset, and if there is political and economic stability, these factors are difficult to get worse, they are likely to improve when the two features I described previously exist. So what does this law do? He's doing all this together. It creates a single stop shop at the Ministry of Development's Private Investment Directorate, which we hope, Minister, you will support. And why am I saying we hope so? I am not saying this to flatter you, but I am saying this because when each entry took place, it was delayed about six hundred forty days. Six hundred forty days means about two years. Today the Minister has an average of one hundred forty days. We have been ambitious by the law on strategic and emblematic investment, and all will be in a period of sixty or seventy days. Speed, reliability, transparency, legal certainty. It turned out that great decentralisation led to delays. We now have the 'invisible governments', as I call them, the management authorities, which take two and a half years and three years to complete a case. Two and a half years you realize that this is a huge period of time, which devaluates the investment proposal itself. This is what the law we are discussing today is trying to heal and which I want to believe will be passed by the large majority of the Greek Parliament. I would say, ladies and gentlemen, that no one is waiting for us and above all that the competitive countries are waiting for us. We live in a highly competitive global environment. Our country has the potential, it has the geopolitical position, it has the natural resources, it has the natural beauty to become an investment destination, of course with respect to the environment and of course with respect to the laws. But the 'equal cows', the conceptions, obsessions and, if you like, party approaches to investment issues don't fit. It's got to be logical in front of it. Here we hear the various absurds, that there will be a hotel unit in one region of the country and that it will degrade the environment. So the investor who will throw away his millions to build a hotel unit will degrade the environment, degrade the sea, the surrounding environment of his investment and bring his customers to a downgraded environment. We hear that too, we hear that too. Spain has chosen another type of development, with the construction, residence and time-lag, and we are not talking about such growth in Greece, if we can reach agreement in this Chamber, my colleague. The amendments also come to regulate matters. The ministers came here and presented them. Of course we support them. I have also heard from some of the opposition colleagues that the fines for illegal and arbitrary port installations are being extended, without questioning who the offenders are and who built the illegal and arbitrary ones. It is the Greek state itself, its house regulates the Greek state with this amendment and gives the value of its property. If you want to let her be shredded and watch the plots of the Greek state, of the TIADE, untapped, waste, illegal, imprisoned, and tell us that too. To conclude, Mr President, I would say that there is a lot to be said in the development bill. And, as I said at the beginning of my speech, in conjunction with the new development law, together with the increase in the absorption of resources from the Reconstruction Fund and the ESDP notices, we really aspire that 2022 will be a time station for the development of the country, which will finally leave behind the crisis that has agitated us over the last ten, twelve years. Of course, it is essential to limit the consequences of the pandemic, to defeat this invisible enemy, to win this war. Of course, this is a condition which has arisen and which is oppressing the country and costing human lives, and that is a shock to us all. But, alongside this war, the government must legislate in order to improve the investment environment and the economic environment. Because that is the only reason why we believe that the social environment can be improved. If one can well claim that new jobs can be created, that the real low wages in the country can be increased - it is really too low the wages in the country - without investment, to come to this Step, to the largest and most responsible Step in the country, and to say so. But I think that because the opposition cannot substantiate this, it is limited to obsessed and halved. Minister, go ahead. Go on with the new investment law that the economy, the market and society are waiting for, because it is the only way to leave behind what has hurt us in recent years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, Mr. Bukowo, too. I shall now give the floor to the Secretary-General responsible, Mr Vésyropoulos, to put him on the amendment under general number 1146 and specialist number 93.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I take the floor to refer to the amendment with a general number of 1146 and with a special number 93 tabled by the Ministry of Finance. This is an amendment with articles which, among other things, modernise and rationalise tax legislation and which come to be voted on in the framework of a bill aimed at creating a modern and attractive environment, suitable for attracting and supporting the implementation of strategic investment. In particular, Article 8 of the amendment harmonises tax incentives for the development and exploitation of patents in Article 71A of the Code of Income Tax with the rules of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development to avoid formal tax practices. To date the undertakings made use of the favourable arrangements provided for in Article 71a for exemption from the income tax on patented profits, irrespective of whether they had incurred costs for the creation, development or improvement of that patent. Article 8 of the amendment changes and hence the exemption from tax is linked to the research and development costs incurred by the company for the development of patents. At the same time, the scope of Article 71a is extended so that other revenues relating to the exploitation of the patent may be taken into account from the sale of the production products of the undertaking and from the provision of services for which patents were used, such as the proceeds from the sale of patents. This is a regulation perfectly reasonable which incorporates international rules and practices, modernising our tax framework and which should therefore be a broad agreement and consensus. Article 9 of the amendment lays down ceilings on the fines imposed in the tax procedure for cases where an undertaking does not produce its books under tax control, as well as on tax electronics, memories and records created by tax electronics. This is a streamlining of the provisions of Article 54e of the Code of Conduct on account of the activation of the MyDATA Digital Platform and the obligation to transmit the documentary data to the independent public revenue authority. This regulation sets a ceiling on fines of 15% of the company's gross revenue. In addition, it provides that the fine is imposed if, during the period of preventive tax control, no tax electronic mechanisms or also records and memories of tax electronic mechanisms are produced unless a loss has been declared before the relevant control order is issued. The regulation in Article 10 of the amendment follows Article 9 in order to make it clear that in the event of a breach or manipulation or interference in the operation of tax electronics, where the fine provided for in Article 54e of the Tax Code does not apply, the maximum limitation of the fine shall not apply. Such clarification shall be necessary in view of the particular gravity of the infringement. Ladies and gentlemen, without doubt this amendment brought to the vote by the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis rationalises and updates the tax framework in the light of technological developments in digital tax data transmission to the tax administration, but also incorporates international tax practices and should receive broad cross-party support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Katrinis wants to ask, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, Mr President. I will not comment, Minister, on Articles 1 and 2 of the Recovery Fund. I said it in my speech. At some point, someone from the financial staff...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u125	Mr President, let me clarify something.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u126	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u127	For the first seven articles in the amendment, Mr Skopje comes to support them. I recommended the last three articles. Eight, nine and ten. Mr Skulakakis comes in for the first seven articles in the amendment. It's about the recovery fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u128	Good, Minister. Mr. Catarini, do you want to say something?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u129	Minister, in Article 9, this fine has retroactive effect? And why are you doing this?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u130	It is about acts that will be adopted after the publication of the law.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u131	The final deeds?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u132	If no final act has been adopted so far, it shall take over all the cases. When a final act has been issued by the tax administration, you understand that it does not occupy these cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u133	Thank you, Minister. Parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party of Greece, Karathanasopoulos, has the floor. Here, Mr. Sedetakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, days ago when the debate on the budget started, we heard a very pleasant news. The forecast for growth in 2022 was revised from 3.6% to 6.9%. How did this little miracle happen at a time when we faced one another with unprecedented challenges? The answer is simple. The current government, despite the crisis of migration in Evros, despite Turkish aggression in the Aegean, despite the pandemic, despite the climate crisis, despite the energy crisis - all external crises - despite Omicon, which we are seeing, did not stop its reform work. The Act on Strategic Investments, to facilitate private investment and to create a regulatory framework for Technoblast companies is another act of the long reform project. On the one hand, strategic investments open the way, give the pace to an economy. That's why they're strategies. On the other hand, the spin offshore innovate and distribute in society the mixture of development that they receive from above to feed it back upwards. They're rings in the same chain. Without one, the other doesn't work. It is not enough to create a pro-investor environment. We must finally find a way to transform research and scientific knowledge into products, services and benefits for society. We must at last face the Greek paradox, have an excess of research produced and a proportionately small number of spin offs. Therefore, increasing the spin off companies is vital to keep the Greek minds in our country, to bring back those that have left, to make innovative made products in Greece. This study, which is reflected in this bill, confirms that the government takes care of the many talented Greeks rather than the few. And we go to the few and mighty. We're talking about strategic investments. In the minds of certain strategic investment is something big, something impenetrable, something inaccessible. The regulations introduced reveal that there is a misconception. Strategic investments are not only determined by the amount of the investment, but by the quality and added value they bear. The figures are revised downwards and widen the range of investments. It enjoys the facility status to proceed quickly beyond the well-known bureaucratic obstacles and claws, it is the concept of One - Stop - Shop and it is our bet finally to apply to practice. It enjoys tax and capital incentives, it concerns many more than some imagined and obviously, it does not concern few and elite, as it likes to blame us for opposition. Of course, the opposition invented something else to say. He accused the government of making laws on the basis of the plans submitted to them. But, to understand, when you build a tool, like this bill, to serve an urgent need, namely to create a pro-investor environment, in order to attract investment, will you ignore what investors want to bring their money here? So if a company wants to invest in our country, we need to refuse her a temporary installation permit? Do we have to refuse her to fit in? Do we have to refuse her permission to set up and operate? Do we have to confuse her in the gears of bureaucracy and keep her from getting out? Do we have to create legal uncertainty for her? Or should we not give her investment incentives to prefer our country? Don't we understand that if we don't do five basic things, these funds will go elsewhere? All countries, all over the planet, are running funds for investments. They do everything they can to facilitate investment. What are we supposed to do here? Stay a gala village and live in our world? Let's get serious at last. Development is achieved in a single way by investing. And investments need money, no money they don't. It's so simple. It is understood by all the advanced countries that are rushing to create a pro-investment environment. Obviously the opposition has remained in the previous chapter. I heard it said we need to discuss what growth we want. But I wonder how many years we'll be discussing theoretically? And so many years we've been talking, haven't we? We didn't see, did we hear what others were doing? I think the time of the conversation is over. The country suffered from the big words. We're back on a page. We're talking about the next day. For us what development we want is a debate that is overdue. It's the life that defines it. When the circumstances change, you adapt. When Microsoft asks you to create data centers, for example, what do you have to say? "We haven't come up with what growth we want, are you leaving?" Let's get serious at last. There's no more time to lose. Right now that we are talking about more than 40 billion from the Recovery Fund, which this government has secured, which must at all costs be absorbed in the next few years, otherwise they will be lost. These funds plus the rest they will mobilize must at all costs enter the Greek economy. It's the oxygen we want to breathe. So jobs will be created, so the Brain Drain will be reversed, so unemployment will be reduced, so our place will be seen as a pretext. If we don't succeed, we'll be accountable to our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u135	Thank you, Mr. Sedetakis. I apologise to Mr Karathanasopoulos for five minutes to place the Minister of Finance on the amendment number 1146 and a special number 93 on the first seven articles, because the rest was placed just now by Mr Besiropoulos. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u136	Thank you, Mr President. This amendment is mainly technically necessary, but it also has an important moral aspect at the end. Article 1 provides the possibility of reallocating appropriations from the Recovery Fund, always within the limit applicable to each institution. It takes a flexibility to implement the Recovery Fund properly. Article 2 aims to fund projects that are part of the State Budget for the State's Recovery Fund through the national part of the EDP, which is the most appropriate instrument we have. There is the national one, there is the co-financed one, but because the Recovery Fund is more like the national one in the ways of implementation, we choose to put it in the national part of the EIF. After all, the rest of us - when it comes to it, VAT, etc. - goes from the national side. In Article 3 we have rules on the control and clearance of expenditure. This is a broader article aimed at simplifying the financial management of central administration bodies. Article 4 is a technical regulation for accountants of advance payment orders. The circle of specialised officials that may effectively receive the movement of SIPs shall be regulated and the incompatibilities of their managers shall be redefined. In Article 5, we have a corresponding arrangement for specialised officials who manage fixed advances. Article 6 sets out the exclusive deadline for the adoption of the Presidential Decree on how to determine compensation for the travel expenses of officials of the Armed Forces. And in Article 7, the life-long honour granted to the armed forces who served in Cyprus is extended and granted to the editors as well as to the editors, the officers in charge, the resurrected stationary officers, as well as those who served in the National Guard of Cyprus. That is to say to all those who participated in the events of the political period. I think this article should have gone through the Greek Parliament for decades now, because these people have actually been there for their homeland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u137	Mr President, I would like the floor to ask the Minister a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u138	Here you go, Mr. Catherine.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, for the first two articles, and especially for the second article, I understand that while you had written and waited for the 1,7 billion dose in October and now going to 2022, you are also obliged to bring this provision. But you have not explained why the government, not yourself, did not make disbursements on the first instalment, and whether this relates to the non-implementation of reforms which are mandatory for disbursing the instalment or whether it relates to financial data. Because, at random, we also had to postpone evaluations from the rating houses. This seems useful for the plenary to clarify. With regard to Articles 6 and 7, I would like to say the following. In Article 7, we are obviously in agreement and we are advocating for the extension - and I would like to say this, Mr President, and I thank you - the right to grant honour for all those who fought in Cyprus and supported the country. But, in Article 6 at the moment, you are giving a delay in a state commitment to issue a decree which will finally determine the costs of moving internal and training for officials of the Armed Forces and the Security Bodies, which, while in force for all other categories of the public, does not apply, Mr President, - take note - at this juncture. It has been since 2018 and is constantly shifting. And now the government comes in and basically freezes it and postpones it, unknown for when, and without committing itself to determining the costs of moving, redressing and training the officials of the Armed Forces and the Security Bodies. I think that is incomprehensible, Minister, from the government, not from you personally. It should be in the top priorities. I want you to tell us whether there should be a specific commitment in time, as was the previous article, which was provided for within a specific period of any extensions, to finally adopt this Presidential Decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u140	Mr President, I would also like the floor for a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u141	Here you go, Mr. Haritsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u142	Thank you, Mr President. I'll just talk for a second. I do not understand, Minister, why, since you also said that Article 7 on the award of the honorary provision concerning those involved in the events of Cyprus and it is something that has been unresolved all these years and has to be resolved but it is not a current issue, and I mean that it has nothing to do with the current topicality, because it has to be incorporated into an overall amendment with so many articles, and it could be submitted automatically so that the political forces can vote in favour of it. That is to say, without integrating it into an amendment which has too many articles and has too many issues, such as the ones I have mentioned before and which are quite problematic. Why is there no such segregation? I don't understand that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u143	Mr. Dogman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u144	On the subject raised by Mr Haritsis, I would like to say that I think it is sufficient to state his support. No one will consider that there is a political force that does not support this particular article, if, for some reason, it does not vote for the amendment. I do not think it would be right for the government to invoke anything like that. I said that there is no case, no matter what you vote on, any political force to invoke the non-vote for any reason in this article, because it is clear that all the political forces support it voluntarily and we, as a government, are reflected in the positions that the political forces support this article voluntarily regardless of their vote. As far as the two important questions raised by Mr Katrinis are concerned, in the second, as you know, the deadline has gone unrealistic and it is better to have the possibility, when there is a budgetary area to fulfil it, rather than to put a second deadline which, for budgetary reasons, will go unrealistic. Obviously, they are in government's priorities but budget issues permanently we will be able to see from 2023 onwards. As you know, right now, we don't have that power. As far as the substance of the disbursement of the first instalment is concerned, there is, in the regulation, the need for the operational agreement to be signed between the Commission and the country of interest, namely, the country taking the money, so that disbursement can proceed. The only country, to date, which has submitted - as far as I am aware - a request for disbursement is Spain which had calculated that it would submit a request for disbursement in the second quarter of 2022, that is, three months earlier than us had done this calculation. It is also likely that France will also testify in December, possibly Portugal and us. We have received from the committee the last text of the 'interim steps', the interim steps which are necessary, so that we can make the agreement on 9 November. We therefore have fifteen days to twenty to negotiate the 'interim steps', which is quite positive and which needs positive will from all ministries, and then we have about fifteen days to sign the College of Commissioners, because that is the procedure. I therefore estimate that the request for disbursement will be made in December, because we have finished all the milestones of the third quarter of 2022. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u145	And we thank the Minister. The reason for this is the parliamentary representative of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Karathanasopoulos, and immediately thereafter, after we have completed every intervention of the Minister in support of the amendments, Mr Amanatidis will be given the floor and then Mr Haritsis, as a parliamentary representative of the SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, and the list will continue as it stands. Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u146	Thank you very much, Mr President. The government isn't surprised. It has now decided on a new measure, namely the mandatory vaccination of over 60 years, which if not vaccinated will also pay a fine of EUR 100 per month, without any other measure. It would be at the edge of the political ridiculous if this measure were not so violently blackmailing, because the government still refers the management of the pandemic to individual responsibility to cover its own criminal responsibilities in the management of the pandemic. Of course, vaccination is necessary, but it does not guarantee both protection and the non-proliferation of the pandemic. On the other hand, it is necessary to shield the hospitals - which the government does not - by reopening all closed hospital units, by mass appointments of permanent staff and the simulation of contractors. The Government, on the other hand, is suspending work, moving staff from hospital to hospital, from health centers to hospitals and on the order, without compensation from the private sector. On the contrary, the government haggles how much more health dealers win. It means developing primary health care, which is literally dispersed, which can function on a 24-hour basis, and on the one hand, to dismantle hospitals but, on the other hand, to play the decisive role in an integrated vaccination programme with the necessary medical control, with the necessary pharmacopoeia - vigilance and essential and personalised information. And, of course, to decongested, for example, the media which are the focal point of the pandemic, but also to form protocols and hygiene and safety measures at large workplaces. Instead, it resorts to the failed choice of individual responsibility with these tragic results. In the bill, both Mr Georgiadis and Mr Papathanassis are quite honest. I read from a recent article by Mr. Papathanasis that says the aim of the bill is to change Greece by building the economy of the new era, building an extremely friendly investment and entrepreneurial environment. This is exactly a goal that aspires to cover this bill. After all, this objective is common to all governments in previous years, to all development laws from New Democracy, either from PASOK or from SYRIZA, SYRIZANEL, all development laws and all the state budgets, they have as their last resort the creation of a more friendly environment for investment and business. And here comes a big question, in the opinion of the C.E., in which you avoid answering, or rather answering. You say that the investment will create jobs and you are also talking about well-paid jobs. But let us see, really, each investor's incentive - let each investor in his place - is to make an investment to create employment? Is that why an investor invests? No, of course not. It is just employment that is a side-effect, because it is precisely necessary for economic and productive activity. It is no coincidence that, if we look at it over time, regardless of who was in the government, all development laws have a common feature, to reduce as far as possible any conditions, investment projects, to shape new jobs, until it is completely eliminated as a condition of integrating investment into development law. Secondly, does it make the investment to make use of the wealthy sources? No, he's not. What's bothering him? To make use of those sources that won't just give him profit, but which will maximize the profit rate. To say a clue, to see the reality. The state strategic investments that have been integrated from 2019 until now are twenty-four investment projects for strategic investment, are four in 2019, four in 2020 and six in 2021, with a total investment of around EUR 5 billion. How many of these are in tourism and the Renewable Energy Sources? 83.3%, twenty-four projects concern tourism and Renewable Energy Sources, and 11 for the Renewable Energy Sources. So here, what does it look like? It shows a target investor protection in specific sectors that ensures them quickly amortisation of any capital invested, because it is too little for them to invest and at the same time a maximum profit rate. Where does this evolution of things lead? It leads to even greater intensification of anisometry at both sectoral and regional level, making the economy even more vulnerable than changes at international level. It is no coincidence that Greece has had the largest fall of GDP in this crisis that we have just passed because tourism is a very large proportion of GDP produced. With these investments, but also with the others that follow this rate, it will be even more widening by making capitalist economic development in our country even more precarious. Thus, each investor’s main issue is the maximisation of profit, that is the only one concerned, and that is why he will invest. Will someone say: Is it necessarily bad, since investment can satisfy the needs of the people? Is that true? If that is true, then the Greek people, the workers, the pensioners, the youth would take a vacation, go to the five-star hotels and enjoy the natural wealth of our country. On the contrary, this is not the case. What do we have as a result? We have the broadening of the ladder between the possibilities available to make a holiday in our country and the rate and level of satisfaction of people's needs. And it's not just tourism, it's all happening. So, then, they are deeply anti-grassy and anti-grassy the criteria for which one is investing in capitalism. Secondly, why do you want an even more favourable environment to attract investment? Because there is a huge competition at global level, but also at regional level, who will offer more to accumulated funds to come to invest in each place. It is precisely because this creation of an attractive environment is a factor in increasing the rate of profit. So, what does it mean to create an attractive environment? First of all, any rights to the labour market, maximum flexibility in the labour market to create the mechanisms for the reproduction of a very cheap labour force without rights to labour, insurance, trade unions. It is therefore a joke that investment will lead to the creation of good paid jobs. There are going to be some of them for high management. However, the rest of them will be employed under insecurity, uncertainty and labour thresholds. What else does it mean to be a favourable investment environment? Incentives, scandalous incentives, tax and financial resources. And here comes the question: is this money either tax exemptions or funding falling out of heaven? Is there any money tree that provides these possibilities for businessmen not to pay taxes, to be exempt from taxation and to be financed unreasonably for their investment projects? No, someone's paying for it. Of course, they are not paid by the ministers concerned. So who's paying for it? The taxpayers. The people raise burdens and tax exemptions to gain even more from business groups, but also from funding. Of course, there are also a number of other facilities. Privatisations are a facilitation of business groups, public property concessions and similar divestments. The development of new business sectors from waste to water management from the freshest or digital transition is merely those sectors that ensure an even greater profit. Third section. What you are saying neutrally seems to me to be'simplification of procedures for investment'. Really? Is that a neutral thing? What's the real fact? The real fact that you are trying to cover it is that through this so-called'simplification process' you are trying to get over with and with the few other protection measures that have been left to protect public health and the environment. At the same time, through your policy, you make it easier for the land to be concentrated in less and less hands, to change the use of land and, at the same time, to shape its own land and urban planning projects, in contrast to urban planning, which are also here - they can take into account certain environmental protection issues. And all governments in these exact sections have bets. For example, SYRIZA and EXCHANGE were first established by SYRIZA, namely the specific spatial planning for strategic investments. Now the New Democracy Government is taking them one step forward. The investment and funding tax exemptions, what today's law brings are essentially the same as the previous law of the SYRIZA government. Here's how good this cooperation is. What further does the government add today? The first question he adds is that it widens even more who can join the category of strategic investment, shapes the emblematic investments, and through the reduction of the eligible amount, there is even greater scope for them to benefit from the additional privileges they give. Among these additional privileges there are a number of issues that have emerged. I'm going to raise a point. Is it true or is it not, Minister, that in the context of the construction of a specific strategic investment project, the possibility of delimiting, redefining or redefining the project to facilitate the operation is allowed? But if that is the case, you have criminal responsibilities. Why? Why you have not taken into account what has happened recently in southern Corfu. This is exactly what they made large hotel units, arranged the streams in the beam to make investments progress, and the result is to flood the area. It is precisely because it is one of the factors that worsen the flooding phenomena rather than there is a complete management of the ravages and drainage basins. You in the name of growth subject the streams, the water basins to the service of business interests and let the place or any person still drown. There the thing is being driven through this device that you bring. I will not talk about the issues of strategic investment I will go to second section, because of course one question arises: how far will you go? It's a theoretical question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u147	Rhetoric.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u148	Yeah, rhetoric better. You're right, Mr. Haritsi. How far are you going to get anyway? In the end you will come to promise them free work, the state budget will pay for those who are employed. So far, the state budget, i.e. the taxpayer, but also the employee as an insured person through the OAED, has been subsidising insurance contributions to business groups, subsidizing part of the wage in the name of the various active employment programmes. I will come to the second part for so-called spin-offs and the frame that is formed for spin-offs, for technocratic companies. What does that mean? Firstly, subjection of research not to the needs of production, but to the needs of businesses. It's different. What's the result? You say that because research must be used to exploit the research results and the knowledge it produces in the research organisation. That's what you're saying. Trade the results of the investigation. Who's going to win this merchandise? But he's the one who's invested. A number of more questions are being raised: firstly, irrationalism. You are - not only on health issues, but everywhere, wherever you are caught - the chief representatives of irrationalism and darkness. Why? Because research is only adapted to those areas where capital is of interest to secure profits for it. In other words, for example, there are research programmes in the applied sciences, while in theory there are not. However, new knowledge to form and be born, wants deepening and research and theoretically and not just on an applied level. So it is irrational how you do it. Here too, the issues that arise are as follows: First, companies in spin - offs companies may participate, as Article 62 states, in various companies - 'third parties' as they call them - legal persons, which are investment portfolios to have direct access to the result of the investigation and its exploitation. Secondly, do they have the right to have Article 56 transposed into other countries even - for what purpose, after all? - provided they maintain a branch here. Thirdly, Article 60 allows them to make use of the laboratories and the mechanisms of research institutes and universities themselves. Really? Does the taxpayer pay to become laboratories in universities, namely the worker, the professional, the retired person, to go there to study his child, his grandchildren, and you provide these for a symbolic honor to the business groups? Why? Because, of course, when research is carried out for this purpose, the level of education provided is downgraded. Why, let us think, an academic, a scientist, a university professor who has three - four spin - offs and a number of others, will he be concerned with the issue of his academic work or business work? What do you think? His business work. And much more so that it is able to develop on the basis of pre-services at spin-offs, business activity. Here is how the training provided under the needs of students, researchers who do not participate in such programmes is degraded to exploit business activity in education. So he pays the taxpayer to make these infrastructures available for free to exploit the various spin-offs.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u149	Please finish, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u150	I shall conclude, Mr President. I'll be out in a minute. So the taxpayer pays, the capitalist wins from the research results. Of course, people's needs are not met. Because, perhaps, the lanes between satisfying needs are even more widening, because the result of the investigation is extremely expensive for them to be able to approach it popularly. So the question is, of course, that we agree as a JRC. - no agreement is reached, it is true - that research is a key factor in the production process. But the point is, for whose benefit? To conclude, Mr President, I say that capitalist development, regardless of who is a manager, irrespective of the management mix of this capitalist development, is characterised by three alphas. Who are those three alphas? First of all, anti-government growth, because it is based on the exploitation of the labour force. Secondly, it is deeply unfair to develop these - whoever is in government - in capitalism. Why is she deeply unfair? Because it is increasing the social inequalities, the gap between the potential and the levels of satisfaction of the people's needs. And third alpha: She's uncertain, because she's shaping the prerequisites for a new crisis, no matter what you do. This is the cycle of the capitalist economy. From this point of view, therefore, the working class must be overshadowed by any rumours about fair growth in capitalism. And that's why he has to collide with real leaders, with this system, focusing on the assumption of satisfying the needs of the people. And this can only be done when the wealthy sources become socially owned, when machines and tools become socially owned, means of transport, when the results of research and technology become socially owned, with central scientific design and labour control. Of course, with the release from the European Union. I mean, socialism. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u151	Thank you, too. The New Democracy MEP, Mr Amanatidis, has the floor now and immediately thereafter, as I said before, the Parliamentary Representative of the SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, Mr Alexis Haritsis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u152	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, let me add to what has been said about this draft law, that a very good job has been done on such a difficult issue as entrepreneurship. Also, dear Mr Taradili, let me add that in this complex and difficult draft law, the presentation was both clean and detailed and in such a way as to be understood by everyone. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall begin with a basic principle. Who? That it is necessary and necessary to increase our country's overall competitiveness in society, in the environment, in the economy. In the economy, as this results from entrepreneurship support. And on this point, let me add that there are also two laws which support strategic investments. And yet, although there are two laws that have been analysed earlier, we see that there are different interpretations for the same issues. These laws, therefore, rather than helping to develop investment, let me say that they often make them difficult. For example, there are different interpretations on the same subject. In the existing legislative framework, therefore, the proposed investor is discouraged. Also, instead of facilitating the development of business, we often find it difficult. It is also common knowledge that the bureaucracy of the public administration, the confusion of the diverse responsibilities between the services also lead to significant delays in the authorisation procedures and, ultimately, the implementation of the investments. But once we diagnosed it, we understood it and focused it, we cannot wait. This, then, promotes this draft law. The main concern, which is also the objective of the draft law, is to deal effectively with these malfunctions. At the same time, not effectively dealing with, but improving, modernising the existing institutional framework. What are we doing in this direction? In principle, we incorporate all the provisions in a single text so that there are common rules for everyone from now on. We are introducing new categories of strategic investors, focusing on modern sectors of the economy, and at the same time reducing the budget needed to characterise an investment strategy, depending on the type of investment. In addition, a new effort is being made to integrate into the incentives for strategic investment and other capital incentives, incentives for placement and a rapid licensing incentive. New areas of business are also being added to the categories of strategic investment, such as agriculture, research, development, biotechnology. I would remind you that such directions, through a study carried out for the development of the Greek economy - the Pissaridis report - but also other studies that have been preceded, are, as we know, the flagship of the development of the Greek economy. As a fourth point, special provisions are also included to speed up licensing procedures, since private operators can take part in the licensing and supervision of the management of strategic investment. In addition, the legislative framework in place for strategic investments with new land uses is enriched and investment in degreasing areas is strengthened. With regard to the establishment of the operation of retail companies, by strengthening and linking the research with entrepreneurship, we aim to produce innovative products and services by attracting investments. Let's see some parts of the draft law. The concept of embedded investment shall be specified. What are these investments? They are those implemented by distinguished legal entities, promote the green economy, innovation, research and technology. For example, in the area of defoliation, in areas within the defoliation zones - in the Kozani prefecture, for example - the strategic investments implemented can take up to 100% of the aided expenditure, while in areas outside the defoliation zone 80%, not up to 100% and up to 80%, but 100% and 80%. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] Finally, these investments, i.e. flagship investments, can also be financed by the Recovery Fund, since the investment is completed by 31/12/2025. Article 9 also sets out incentives for rapid licensing. The certified assessors of the Ministry of Environment and Energy are used and the necessary environmental permits will be accelerated. An important aspect is also the concept of hosting investment projects. Up to 1 million investment projects will be submitted to the relevant Directorates of the Regions, and above that, to the Ministry of Development and Investment, to the Directorate-General for Private Investment. And that's why? Because regions and services already have the power to approve and supervise private investment, which is up to 1 million in State aid. There is provision for a regulation to assist foreign companies with a temporary leave to move forward at a faster rate. In conclusion, I would like to refer to the objections made by the Civilian Opposition Officer that this draft law relaxes environmental protection at a time of green transition. I am not going to analyse this and because I do not have time, but because it has been analysed by the Minister earlier. The reality, ladies and gentlemen, is that not only do they not relax, but spatial provisions are also laid down and new land use is being given. In addition, this draft law promotes green development, as well as in categories of strategic investment, such investments as green hydrogen production. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] On this point, I would also like to refer to areas which are part of the territorial plans for a fair development transition, since the Kosani prefecture exists such that it is the law to which I am elected. These areas are therefore strategic investments, which have a budget of 25% less than in other regions. Ladies and gentlemen, since the first day of New Democracy's governance, our main priority was the reversal of the negative or even hostile climate that existed in terms of entrepreneurship. With this draft law, the government lays strong foundations for the confidence of the investment community in Greece. And I say this to myself that I have great experience in these matters, from how an idea is born for the realisation of an investment until its completion.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u153	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u154	So through strategic investment, not only are we planning, but we will achieve even higher growth rates, even better jobs, which were also in the New Democracy programme. And that's already shown by the first samples. The first samples are therefore that the growth in investment in our country in 2021 was about 13%, and investment is projected to increase by 15% in 2022. With a sense of responsibility to the Greek people, with a responsibility and a firm orientation to serve the common interest, I am voting in favour of this draft law. I urge you, too, to join in this objective and with me. Looking at the dear Mrs. Perka, I say this. Dear Pete, vote on it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u155	The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Haritsis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u156	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u157	What exactly do you want, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u158	Let me say what amendments we are accepting, Mr President. I can say it after Mr. Haritsi, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u159	I have no problem, Mr President, I am waiting.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u160	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u161	Mr President, we are accepting the amendment under general number 1144 and special 91, which is an amendment from the Ministry of Development and Investment. We then accept the amendment by general number 1146 and specific number 93, which is added - an amendment by the Ministry of Finance to the draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment. Amendment No 1147 and specific number 94 are an amendment by the Ministry of Environment and Energy and Amendment No 1145, and a special amendment by the Ministry of Development and Investment, which concerns the extensions of investment projects, as the Minister said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u162	Mr. Haritsis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u163	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, at this very critical juncture for the Greek economy we should, in my opinion, discuss two basic things. Firstly, how we are going to raise a pandemic-born economy and how to transform it so that it can meet the challenges of the new era. For the first of the two, the evidence is revealing. One out of four companies has zero cash. Greece has the highest wholesale electricity price in Europe for the entire month of November. That is, unfortunately, no longer a time-consuming phenomenon. For a whole month - this very negative development has never happened before. Precision, at the same time, significantly reduces purchasing power and especially the most vulnerable layers. See the data from the report by INE GSEE, where they were released last week. In October, the increase in the price of housing, food transport, reduced the purchasing power of the minimum wage by 7.4%, while, the report says, continued energy increases in the first half of November increase the erosion of the purchasing power close to 10%. And, of course, it has not included the developments of the last few days in energy that are even more pitiful. At the same time, branches such as retail trade and focus are in a special lockdown regime, as they are forced to operate with restrictive measures but are not at the same time receiving such support from the State. I say these in titles - I do not have the time to say more in this direction - because that is the reality. This is the situation in the real economy. And, of course, the fact that the budget was submitted a few days ago does not provide for the slightest amount of funds to support the firms affected in 2022, the fact that there is no provision for the slightest budget - zero here - to deal with this unprecedented wave of accuracy, unfortunately shows that the government is facing these crises as temporary crises which do not have a serious footprint on the Greek economy. Last and today's news, it was announced by EUROSTAT that inflation in the Eurozone reached 4.9%. This is high, as EUROSTAT notes, twenty-five years. How many bells and bells should have sounded, especially in our country from this development at pan-European level, which is obviously ringing our own door? How can the 2022 budget not take account of these very worrying international developments and try not to shield the Greek economy against these developments? I fear that this government inertia, the fact - if you like - that the government seems to have believed its own propaganda, the same attempt to build a virtual reality, will cost us far too expensive. I come to the second part, that of the transformation of the economy. And here, of course, the question of investment is very critical, because I believe that the basic, structural problem of the Greek economy is not the budget. The budget is a result, it is the result of the main structural problem, which is productive, that is, that we have an economy in which for decades a distorting model has prevailed. For, of course, behind the colorful and bright marks of the strong Greece of the '90s and 2000', the country's production base shrunk and concentrated on less and less traditional sectors of economy - shipping, tourism, construction - and, of course, on the fraudulent illusion that was prevailing at the time before the 2008 crisis, that large projects, private consumption and mass privatisations guaranteed the constant flow of international resources into the domestic economy and established the country in international division. And of course, what happened? The 2008-2009 crisis came and overturned all this. And we all know how expensive we paid these perceptions of the past. Unfortunately, the development laws of that period - and this regression makes sense, because development laws always have a guideline - if you want - of importance to the whole direction of the economy - of the period from '98 to 2014, three successive development laws, reflected this very, inefficient and dead-end model. It is characteristic - to mention just a few elements, a few figures, I will not tire you too much, I have much more to say, but I will now say, and when the development law comes to Parliament - that 95% of the investment projects were low and relatively low technology, 72.2% of the total budget concerned photovoltaic and tourism, 95% again of the projects received aid, only in the form of subsidies, i.e. warm money. At the same time, governments put forward a completely figurative picture of the high absorption of funds, while the relevant agency of development law at the Ministry of Development was working anything but exemplary. In 2014, the General Inspector for Public Administration’s report on past problematic practices is characteristic. So the report says. I read it: “The processing times of the evaluation stages range from a few days to sixty months. The processing times of the control stages range from a few days to up to thirty - six months. These excesses are systemic, not case-by-case, and cannot be attributed to a workload’. Where did all this lead? In 2015, when SYRIZA came in, the unfinished investments of the previous investment laws, in 1998, 2004 and 2011, amounted to half a thousand investment projects, with contractual debts of approximately 5.5 billion, while mismanagement and opacity had led the European Commission to imposing a 10% financial correction. In 2015, the new leadership of the Ministry, which took over at the time by George Stathakis, required a hard effort to eliminate the risk that this service would be excluded from the use of European funds as a whole. However, beyond the development and within the framework of the strategies, we have the same picture, an inefficiency picture. Only 15 investment projects had been subjected to fewer than one investment project and no investment had been completed. These projects were concerned again only with tourism, the RES, mainly photovoltaic and Mall, commercial centres. There was no binding timetable for the realization of investments. There was no control over the investment path after the decision of the PCI, nor of any sanction procedure in the event of non-compliance. There was no consultation of any kind with local communities and other stakeholders. That was the scenery. This was the situation in 2015 by the prior governments, which, supposedly, were pro-developmental and philosophical. That was chaos because I hear you talk about chaos. And what did SYRIZA do? It has established well-defined procedures to put an end to the opaque regime. It established a new development law, L.4399/2016 which included a number of important innovations, such as the ceiling on aid to widen the pool of beneficiaries, by way of priority aid for knowledge-intensive and high value-added business projects, a clear choice of granting aid with tax exemptions, not only subsidies, which, in particular, went to reduce the minimum investment cost that allows for more small enterprises to join, pan-institutionalisation, as specific incentives were given for the use of inertial enterprises and equipment and emphasising the less favoured areas of the country. The ones in development. But also in strategic investments, SYRIZA proceeded with a series of innovative interventions, such as the definition of what constitutes a strategic investment. Not all investments are strategies. The strategy is, therefore, considered to be very large and specific, investment, which is implemented in sectors of economy with significant growth dynamics and as identified by the National Development Strategy, with a clear institutional framework, with an opening-up to sectors such as industry and research and innovation, with a control of investment progress and a binding schedule. We could say a lot more about it. I don't have the time now to expand. I'll see you at the development site. But all this shows exactly the change of direction, which has been in place in the last four years, in the four years 2015-2019 by the SYRIZA government. And what's going on today? Unfortunately, in this bill, we are turning back to the pre-2015 period, in a logic for investment outdated and inefficient, as the strategic investment from the country's national development strategy is disconnected, conditions and conditions are abolished and that ensure a more comprehensive development footprint in the Greek economy and urban and environmental rules are violated, assuming that investors will be attracted in this way. Budgets and projected annual units of work are being reduced at a time when unemployment continues to brag and we will see what happens when the suspension period passes and, of course, flagic strategic investments are being modified. They even relate to the Recovery Fund, as these investments should be completed until 31/12/2025. Mr President, I'm going to need some more time. A word here about the Recovery Fund. We talked yesterday and with the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Psulakakis, on the timely question I had tabled and answered yesterday. The government started with a budget of EUR 2.6 billion for 2021 as expenditure from the Recovery Fund to the Greek economy and where did we end up after a year? The government itself said that last year in the 2021 budget. Where did we end up? To tell us in the budget of 2022 that in the end it will only be 600 million expenditure and, finally, from the Ministry's own figures, it will be revealed that the actual expenditure will not exceed EUR 150 million. That's where we're from. The Recovery Fund, which is really a historic opportunity for the country and which we must use for the benefit of the real economy to start, and already - as the Minister said yesterday to the timely question - the forecasts for 2022 that speak of EUR 3.2 billion absorption in 2022 appear to be - the financial council - extremely ambitious. When will the smooth activation and absorption of the Recovery Fund begin? I could say too much. However, our rapporteur, Petis Perkas, has said so in very detail, and the abolition of the organised consultation which was established by Law 4608/2019, the issues of transparency, public accountability, the activation and protection of civil society. It's very important. We believe that it is moving in the right direction and the amendment of Mera25. We have abolished the memorandum of cooperation that we had established with the same law, in which both parties agreed to a clear timetable and specific conditions for the implementation of an investment. This responsibility is again transferred to the Minister. We have a reduction in the budgets for the investment projects - what our rapporteur said - which will be assessed by the regions from EUR 3 to EUR 1 million, abolishing this possibility for the Ministry of Macedonia - Thrace. Is that how you understand regional development? Is this how you perceive decentralisation, support for the region, by further centralising the responsibilities and functions of the Ministry? So I could say too much. Just a word about the third place to say. So here we have a place which, in the opinion of the Committee on Budgets, should have come on its own. It should be a separate piece of legislation, Minister. We have specific remarks, of course, to make about this place. Now I don't have time to analyze them. But, in general terms, I can say that it is in a positive direction and we could deal with it in our vote in a positive way if it had been tabled as a separate bill. I should like to say that it is very important to go ahead with initiatives which have exactly something to do with the funding of research. I have to tell you that in my recent visit to Heraklion, Crete, ITE, a very important global institute, I found with great satisfaction that all the craftsmen of the Foundation are now funded by the great effort we have made and created the EquiFund, the participation fund in 2017. We need to build on these initiatives, I think, in the coming years, as well as the 'Research - I Create - Innovative', which I must say is going on and that is a positive development. But I'm closing up with this. We said the third place, too. I will, however, conclude with an issue which, in my opinion, is crucial and I thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance. I am talking about articles dealing with environmental urban planning legislation, Articles 3, 4 and 5 and some others afterwards. Every day we talk about the need for a green transition. But how will this be done? Will green transition be fair and sustainable without any respect for environmental legislation and spatial planning? This creates an overriding framework which adapts to the needs of each investor, with the unacceptable logic of the derogation becoming a rule. I'll say it again, I said it at first. The lack of environmental and urban rules does not attract major investors. It takes them away, because it actually shows them that there are no legal certainty conditions to invest in the long term. The depreciation of the 'natura' regions continues. You insist on this unacceptable rationale for the exploitation of the sanctuary. And of course we have heard New Democracy Members say that all this is outdated, that all this is Soviet, that all this is the ideals of the Opposition Officer. Really? I see that the Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, will be taking part in and will speak at an online event entitled 'climate change, an expert crisis', 'climate change, an existential crisis'. It's very interesting to see the event. Who's going to show up there, Mr. Mitsotakis? Is Mr. Mitsotakis on the inside or Mr. Mitsotakis on the outside? Will it tell us, then, that all these are very important, environmental protection, spatial planning, urban planning for green development, or will it tell us that all these are idealities, are Soviets, are SYRIZA's contours with the past? You must finally decide what exactly applies to all of this. And I think that all this opens up a more comprehensive debate, let me tell you. We must finally come to an agreement in this country. When we talk about investment, what kind of investment are we talking about? Are we talking about investment that respects environmental and labour legislation? Are we talking about investments that are compatible with domestic production and commercial activities? Are we talking about investments that create know-how for the domestic production system? Do we want investments that produce domestic added value? This is the main question, when we discuss investment, not in metaphysical terms, not by thinking that every investor or the right of every investor can become a state law. I am saying all this because I think this is the debate we need to have. Because, Minister - and I am closing down with what I have started - when I say - and I want to be consistent with what I am saying - that the productive problem is the fundamental structural problem of the Greek economy there indeed the debate on the coverage of the financial and investment public is very critical. But under these conditions we must have the debate, not in terms that do not actually correspond. And if you want me to say it - with a last word - in quantitative terms, if you see it - because much has been said about the SYRIZA period, about the anti-investor SYRIZA, last week, last Monday if I'm not mistaken, the GSE's annual report has been published. What does this report say? I read in words again so that it doesn't seem like I'm trying to misinterpret or alter. ‘The foreign direct investment stocks in Greece have decreased by 15.7% for 2020 after a very significant recovery in 2015-2019’. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Alexis Haritsis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] But I will not claim that we did everything perfectly. Away from me, a logical outrage of reality. I shall say, therefore, that although significant progress has been made, structural problems remain. And, of course, the country needs a substantial debate on the real economy and on a policy to attract investment that meets the current conditions, the current needs, the current potential of the Greek economy. Unfortunately, this debate cannot be held in the way the government is choosing today. The violation of the public interest, the demolition of environmental urban and spatial rules is not a philosophical policy. The creation of a stable development strategy is what we need and unfortunately the draft law we are debating today is far from it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u164	I'm asking for the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u165	Until the Step is ready, Mr. Bukoro, make an intervention for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u166	I want an answer from the SYRIZA parliamentary representative. Mr. Haritsis, if I didn't consider you to be one of SYRIZA's most worthy executives, I wouldn't answer. You spoke of Foreign Mitsotakis and Home Mitsotakis. I deliberately want to believe you're comparing things unparalleled. You come from a constituency - you spoke of overuse of the coastline, etc. - where there was a flagrant strategic investment, the most strategic investment in Greece, Costa Navarino. With what you're saying here, I realize that you're probably opposed and that you think it's been over-exploited and bad in your area with this investment. This suggests that such investments lead to over-use of the coastline. And I say you come from Messinia, where there was a strategic investment that brought the region up as a tourist destination, uploaded the local economy, making use of local products, and all that, why forbid us from making it easier for the rest of the country? Can you answer us?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u167	With your position and questions you're triggering the dialogue. We're not against it. But not at such a stage of the legislative debate. By the way, I would like to ask all the speakers to keep the seven-minute period because the sittings of the Presidents or Vice-Presidents are not inexhaustible. There's one thing. If this is over then we will be forced to interrupt the sitting today. I don't know. I say it. I take responsibility. In order to get to know now a warm request for time to be observed. Mr. Haritsis, very soon, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u168	Very soon, Mr President. Mr Buquoir, please, at least when you speak to me and ask me questions, please address the basis of what I have said rather than trial for intent. Did I talk about a particular investment? Did you hear me? Look at the Minutes of the House. So we don't go crazy in here. I said at long last that we should finally have a serious debate in our country because of investment policy. Can't you even keep that for five minutes? And you come immediately after taking the floor to create impressions and tell me about an investment that has indeed created added value in the region. I am talking about the particular you refer to. Is that what I said? Is that what I'm talking about? I'm talking in total. We are talking here about the institutions. We are talking about how the country's institutional framework is shaped in relation to investment attraction and implementation. Obviously there are investments which should have worked if you like, as a pilot, like the one you mentioned. Because, indeed, environmentally, both in terms of jobs and in terms of the overall upgrading of the region's economy has worked very positively. Instead of operating as a pilot - I say - we go far back with legislative regimes and frameworks that do not produce added value for the domestic economy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u169	Explanations were given. Thank you. I have the honour to inform the House that the Standing Committee on Social Affairs presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Health "Recommendation and organisation of a legal person under the name "National Central Authority for Health Supplies", the strategy for centralised supply of products and health services". I will give the floor to Mr. Dermetzopoulou from New Democracy. Then Mr. Stoltides, Mr. Haritou, Mr. Pappas. After Mr Papapa, the Deputy Minister will take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u170	Mr President, I would like the floor for thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u171	No, for a second. I have given the floor to Mr. Dermetzopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u172	We are parliamentary representatives. What do you want? May I ask for the floor on staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u173	I know you're a parliamentarian. What do you mean? To hear what you're trying to say. As to what you say 'on personal grounds'.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u174	I would like to speak, Mr President, to Mr Haritsis, a phrase. Mr Haritsis, if the law that we are voting on today was the case, it would not take twenty years to implement the investment that you are supporting.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u175	Come on, Mr. Dermetzopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u176	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate before the national delegation today concerns an innovative draft law on Greek data. A bill that comes to regulate the scope of strategic investment and the improvement of the investment environment by speeding up procedures for private and strategic investment and creating a framework for technocratic companies. But why now is such a bill? In the midst of a pandemic, our scientific community introduced innovative ideas, new plans, trade proposals, but without being able either to transform them into acts or to legally safeguard them for future use. Researchers in Greece are developing considerable inventions and leading internationally to their research activity. In view of the support of the research community to exploit these results it produces, the institutional framework that regulates the establishment and operation of spin offs companies is reformed. It is true that in recent years the Greek state had an incomplete regulatory framework which contained unclear and contradictory provisions. This was a dissuasive element for research bodies and organisations to make practical use of the research they produced. With the new law, therefore, researchers have a key role to play in the development of an investment opportunity presented to them, they acquire clear rights and prioritise the development and development of their work. In practice, for a spin off company to function effectively, a sound and prudent commercial risk assessment is required, a market analysis, a weighting of commercial demand and supply factors, a detailed business plan, as well as a significant investment in economic and human resources. The economic success of the use of this mechanism depends on the choice of the most appropriate method of use which should be based on the purpose of the research organisation, the type of transfer of technology and the financial resources available to the research organisation. The specific objectives of the spin off-companies are the economic exploitation of existing research results by carrying out research projects through the creation of new companies. Intensification of research and similar activities in private and public enterprises and research bodies. Promoting entrepreneurship in education and research institutions. The increase in employment in particular in knowledge sectors. The creation of a financial framework for initial support for projects. The extension of cooperation with business and research organisations abroad and their integration into international permanent or specific cooperation networks. For the success of the project, however, the creation of a framework for these companies is a presumption that regulations are needed to improve the investment environment in our country and to speed up and simplify the administrative procedures for strategic and private investment. This draft law is structured in three interrelated parties. The first concerns strategic investments aimed at reforming and improving the existing regulatory framework by treating any unclear elements and provisions on strategic investment. The second part of the bill refers to private investment and the aim is to speed up the procedures for granting aid. In this way, substantial improvements are being made in the process of assessing and controlling investments in order to make them effective. The third part lists the provisions and conditions for the establishment of spin off companies. Ladies and gentlemen, the development of the trade idea in Greece in recent years has been based on fragmentary legislation and many ambiguities that discouraged the candidate investor. In recent years the business had been demonized as an automation, thus being treated. Conditions that favour investment attraction and activity are, together with others, mutual trust, honest behavior between the world of entrepreneurship and the state, the absence of all sorts of bureaucracy, enhanced digital function, political stability and clear terms on either side. And these conditions, in practice, are now to be seen that only the Government of Mr.Mitsotakis and himself is to ensure them, and this is abstractly demonstrated by the fact that our country has become globally renowned as one of the most attractive investment destinations. This is why the Government of New Democracy, loyal to its vision of innovative investment and multiple development policy, today brings this draft law, which will create a new air at a standstill in the expansion of knowledge and innovation. By simplifying the procedures for the establishment and development of the spin-off companies, we modernise their operating environment and set new foundations for the development of entrepreneurship. We are therefore giving solutions to a problem which has been a yearly problem and which has limited the possibility of exploiting domestic research produced. We are therefore strengthening research and linking it even more effectively with innovation and entrepreneurship. If we do not do it now, so that we are competitive on a global level, then we will only have to be overcome by developments and we must only look ahead. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u177	Mr. Stoltides from the Communist Party of Greece now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u178	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Bukkokouros said, "Is there anyone who believes that the best wages can come without investment?" That's why he probably needs to inform his trade union prolongation to GSEU, which together with KINAL have the majority and is against the fight to raise the minimum wage, because the economy is probably not able to withstand. Let us know, because soon we'll start confusing who's government, who's a trade unionist. And don't be so afraid of SYRIZA's confrontation. Because when it comes to enforcing the conditions of the development of your common policy, you are becoming like two drops of mercury, one, as the previous one in the Federation of Private Officials, the largest federation in Greece, with hundreds of unions, which, according to the workers' decision, are the first power of the PAM, the unions that are assembled in the PAM, made a joint vote. While you were unable to do so with fraud, you were unable by developing an employer mechanism, a management mechanism, an extortion of workers, voting for your members, going to a joint ballot, violating both the trade union conscience and the dignity of the voters. Because time doesn't allow many analyses, we're going straight to translation. What's the big chapter you've all been asking for for, you know, so many years with incredible profits? He asks you to increase his earnings and you as genuine children in his service are not wasted any time. What does he ask you to increase these profits? He asks you to finance tens of billions of euros, with the people's money - because this is not the case - of workers, self-employed, farmers. Because their money is these billions, both from the European Fund, both from the NSRF and from the state budget, and it is a very small part of what they have given. The capital, in your turn, everyone has freed you from taxes. And all that money wants to invest in activities that will allow him to suck what's left of the people's population's income. See the cost of energy from RES, plus energy dependency of the country on foreign business groups. However, we will see them more in detail in the forthcoming bill you bring to "flood" the transition of the areas under liberation. In addition, he asks for the rest of the funding to be given to them by the banks, and if something does not work for them to be loaded on the backs of the people by recapitalisations, risk and evil. You are asked for a job without any right, flexible, with the option of 24-hour work with the minimum wage. You offer this with the anti-galactic ancestry of Hatzidakis. Of course, you are ruined by the struggle of workers in food, the seafarers, the builders, who have shown that if the workers decide in the last word they will say it, the workers who produce the wealth, the ink and you who spend it. It also calls for funding for digital transformation under conditions which exclude more than 90% of small businesses and self-employed persons, who are considered in your own writing, and both of them, a structural problem in the economy and must leave the middle. Of course, there are your privileged alliances, and while you dig them the pit, and SYRIZA and New Democracy are fighting to convince them who will save them better. In addition, it calls for funding for investments in the agri-food sector, for intelligent agriculture. Because now, since the development of the means of production, they see a higher profit rate and are now interested in passing the land directly to their own hands and not through farmers' subsidies. And it will naturally take over your state, that is, you, squeeze the leash on the farmer's neck in order to throw them out of the fields. He also asks technicians, to put the search without risk, without risk, to limit it to the congestive limits of profitability and not to its real multiple capabilities, so that all of the above can proceed more quickly. He asks you, in other words, to give him what he has gathered from the bloody taxation of our people, and he could solve with these billions today the enormous need for health, education, protection against fires and floods, to meet the needs of the people in terms of survival, to strengthen the wages of workers against accuracy. And he asks you for all this capital to strengthen and from a better position to gather all the wealth produced in the pockets of a pestilence descent in the economy, big shareholders of business groups. The draft law reveals the real nature of capitalist development, which is about shielding the profits of very large companies against the interests of the vast majority. People's strata will experience the tragic consequences of investment, which will destroy the environment, without even respect for the minimum conditions of protection and will immediately worsen their lives, experience the working jungle of compressed wages, flexibility, unemployment, and the large groups will operate in an investment environment to secure huge profits. It turns out that the solution to labour problems cannot be given within the walls of capitalist development. Profits and accumulation of capital require continuous investment facilitation arrangements, labour-intensive training, and the draft law goes in this direction, further specificising legislation to date. Sectoral orientation, green transition, digital transformation, logos, high-scale tourism, the need for greater exploitation of labour force, the need to further facilitate investment ultimately reveals the common strategic orientation, both of SYRIZA and of New Democracy as well as of the other parties, and underline the need for a radically different path, of a different development path. The solution lies in the opposite of capitalist development, the social and state ownership of the means of production and the central scientific design of the economy, which is the warning difference and which allows a development that has proved, regardless of whether you are on the Internet, that it is launched when it eliminates profit as an incentive to production and places the worker and his needs as a focus. And you all do everything you can to confirm that to the most skeptical. Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u179	We continue with the Minister for Legislative Improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u180	Mr President, I should like to put forward the legislative improvements, on the recommendation of the Scientific Committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u181	I would ask that they be distributed to the parliamentary groups. Mr Haritou has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u182	Thank you very much, Mr President. I have heard the Minister a little while ago, Mr Georgiadis, say about the new measures announced by the government for the invasive over 60 years that the decision was taken without taking account of the political cost. Do you really think, gentlemen? Are you concerned with the political cost, that is, the votes when you take decisions and take health measures? When we tell you, you attack us. Now you confess yourself. I am afraid, gentlemen, that the measures taken in addition to the painful economic consequences that they will have on our over 60 years of age, unfortunately with the global climate that they will create, will lead to the opposite of the desired results. And I come to the bill, gentlemen. With the regulations on strategic investment, you aim, among other things, to weaken the regulations of Law 4608/2019 of the Government of SYRIZA. Arrangements that provided that, in order to integrate investment projects into strategic investment and exploit aid, bonuses may not only be a criterion if the level of investment is high, but if they are to be part of and serve the country's national development planning and take advantage of the comparative advantages it has. You are far from that logic. It is equally serious that, with the new forecasts you are introducing, you are limiting the social dimension regulations, which set a minimum number of jobs for those who were involved in strategic investment. You reduce the number of jobs in specific categories of investment projects. It is also particularly problematic that you cancel the objective criteria established to qualify for an investment as a flagship, so that it becomes part of the strategies and receives aid. The setting-up of a three-member committee by Ministries to assess an investment as a flagrant and not, only questions arise about the transparency of choices while the risk of arbitrariness is immediate. In fact, the provision to complete the implementation of the flag State investments by the end of 2025 as a precondition for joining the aid strategies actually indicates that these investments to be financed by the recovery fund will have substantially double aid. It is more than evident that your pursuit with this bill, deviating the regulations of the previous law of SYRIZA to set up the framework to include investment projects as strategic investments in the Greek Recovery Fund 2.0 program. A draft formulated without genuine consultation of the productive and social bodies and the political forces. A project which is essential for its actions are the energy and real estate sectors. These are the priorities that you want to serve with the regulations introduced by the draft law, so that without the limitations of the previous legislative framework you can facilitate the major economic interests, with which you have a privileged relationship, since you appear to have the knows how to invest. Unfortunately, you have lost a great, historic, opportunity to make good use of the strong resources of the 30.5 billion rehabilitation fund. Resources that could contribute to transforming the country's production potential into investment projects, which would use its strong comparative advantages. Projects aimed at increasing domestic added value, strengthening the country's production base and strengthening labour, particularly young people. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate in the Intergroup on the Development of Thrace, a region with the lowest per capita GDP, only 68% of the country's average, with high unemployment and migration rates for young people, which is in need of sustainable investment projects, has been completed, since there is long-term investment apnea. We would like to know since you claim that the Greek Action Plan 2.0 for the Recovery Fund has been approved by the European Commission, which are the major, the flagship projects of the region that have joined it. We are concerned, gentlemen, because the regulations we are discussing today will not strengthen regional development. If I can even judge by the arrangements of the bill, rather than leading to the reduction of regional disparities, you are broadening them. You are significantly limiting the number of investment projects accepted by the regions, as they will now be responsible for investment projects up to EUR 1 million instead of the three which were to date, while the largest of the 3 million investment projects will be brought together in the Ministry of Development. Instead of strengthening the role of regions in a Europe of the regions, you are shrining it up. A particular concern arises, gentlemen, in the draft law on strategic investment in RES, namely that in the event of insurmountable licensing problems, the placement to another extent may be allowed, without even requiring such approval by the Interministerial Committee. RAE has only granted in Rhodope a hundred licenses for wind parks with almost six hundred large wind turbines, even in areas of natural beauty and antiquities. Do you realize what new problems will arise from such an arrangement? The region of Thrace is indeed transformed into an energy hub. But you refuse to create the second generation new generation of electricity production at the PPC plant in Komotini to replace an existing plant in the envisaged infrastructure. Will you tell me why I'm telling you? But at the same time, at the same time as fast pace, you are promoting a similar unit in the BIP of private interests at a cost possibly twice the cost. And the concern is that, with the arrangements that we are discussing today, the marble will be paid by the usual suspects. You have already voted in the context of the development law to integrate into strategic investment, mining activities. I would like to remind you once again of the universal opposition of local communities and its institutions to the mining activity of gold in Thrace. I would like to raise a final point, Mr President. I think it is important to rethink the issue of Shelman Industry, and I would like to ask if there has been any new development, no new investment interest in this major industrial plant in BIPE Komotini. These are investment activities that will create new jobs and boost the local economy. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u183	The next speaker is Mr Pope John from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u184	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will take you a little more relaxed. I hope you've seen the film 'Mama Mia' because it hides an interesting story. The first film was shot in Skopelos, as you know, and the whole world saw the beauty of Greece, the beauty of our country. This is not the first time that this has happened. In the early 1960s my special homeland, the island of Rhodes, became famous throughout the world by the film "The Cannons of Navarone" and was then repeated, in the late 1970s, in 1979 with the film "Erassis in Athens". The question is why, from the end of the 1970s to the present day, the film industry has not evolved into a lever of economic development in Greece and a tourist channel. The answer was given in 2018 when his second film "Mamma mia" became known that it did not go back to Greece, although production wanted it very much, but in Croatia. In fact, production found in Croatia an island that was kind of like Skopelos and was painted Greek for the needs of their film. Do you know why, ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking? Because they were struggling to get to grips with the Greek public and the institutions so as to obtain permission to shoot. Of course they didn't make it out, so they got out of here. "They found other orange oranges, as our wise people say. The problem is, they left their money elsewhere and advertised another area around the planet. I do not mention that because I like the history of cinema only, I mention it to understand what we are talking about today at the National Representation and to understand that in some areas we are very far behind. It is a pity that we had to get to 2021 to understand that in a global economic environment that rains on opportunities and investment, we in our country kept the umbrella until recently and we even advertised it. But don't worry, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition. The Government of New Democracy, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis has the plan and in practice proves that he is methodically finding solutions and that changes should have been made for many years. But it's not too late, it's never been. The Ministry of Development's draft "Investment strategies and the improvement of the investment environment" attempts to simplify and accelerate procedures to improve the investment environment. In the post-Koronian period Greece needs investment. And if the word "investments" is heard by every government, for the New Democracy Government it is not just a wish. For example, I will mention three new investments with three huge buildings in the wider area of Attica, which will house large-scale data processing centres or data centers. The fact that world colleges like Microsoft, Lamda Hellix, and the Italian company Sparkle trust Greece give us the direction we need to move. In addition to the data centres in the bill, other sectors forming part of the categories of strategic investment are included: investments in agri-food, research and development, investments in biotechnology, cultural and creative industry, robotics, artificial intelligence, medical tourism, waste management and waste management, space industry, digital transformation of the company, the provision of cloud computing, the permanent installation of film producers, business parks and important projects of common European interest. I am sure that all colleagues here in the Chamber can imagine even an investment in one of the above areas that I mentioned to you in their own region. Since the bill is complete, incentives are provided for the above strategic investments: Rescue incentive, fast licensing incentive, fast track, tax incentives, capital incentives, grant, leasing subsidy, tax residence. Ladies and gentlemen, the most representative example of the fact that we have a way to go is the case of technocrat companies. As curious as the word is, it is about companies that have as their object the marketing of intellectual property or scientific knowledge of members of academic and research staff of research organisations. In the European Innovation Index Greece is in the 20th place, while in the corresponding global index Greece is in the forty-seventh place, while 2020 was in the forty-third place. To say it simply and understandably: Greece cannot exploit its minds and give them opportunities. It is a key aspect of the phenomenon of the outflow of new scientists from abroad. A number of shortcomings were the cause of the problem which, with this bill, we hope will be solved. The way in which researchers are involved is defined. The relationship between these companies and the research organisations and the terms of the contract concerned is defined. The way the research organisation is involved in these companies and the allocation of rights to partners shall be defined. The scope for participation in third-party investors is defined and incentives are provided for the establishment and operation of technicians’ companies. Ladies and gentlemen, so far I have not mentioned you. The reason is that I understand that you have nothing to do with everything else and you don't want to have anything to do with it. You are disturbed by the concept of investment and private capital, the cooperation of the public health sector with the private sector. At the same time, it is now known that your obsession with middle-class and overtaxation is now known. You took advantage of the period when you ruled with twenty-nine taxes that you imposed and screwed up, so I can understand your opposition to anything that makes Greece an attractive destination for investment and provides tax incentives. In conclusion, I would like again to refer to the cinema and to appeal to my opposition colleagues. I invite you to see the films of the European and American films that have been filmed and are going back to Greece. Already in Thessaloniki, one was completed and we know there will be four others in the region of Macedonia. We also know that there will be two more in the South Aegean region. Enjoy through the films the beauties of our country, along with the whole world, as everyone will. Just so you know, we're a little more happy because they didn't get in the way of making your own ideas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u185	Thank you. I had announced that after Mr. Pappa, the Minister would speak. However, he asked for a statement for a minute from the Greek Parliamentary spokesman Mr Hetas. Mr. Heta, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u186	Thank you very much, Mr President. I really won't abuse and I apologise to my colleagues. We would, however, like to make a clear statement. Mr. Papathanasis, this is not the first time this has happened. I don't know if it's yours, I mean, as a government, the responsibility and the function of the House. We have taken it to the President of Parliament too many times too. We consider it unacceptable, and we want to make it clear to the world, to the Greeks and to the Greeks who are listening to us today, which is about our vote on a specific amendment. Mr Papathanassis, I want you to tell us a little what it may have to do with an amendment from the Ministry of Finance, but it is in your own bill - the redistribution of appropriations from the Recovery Fund - that is to say, of the control and clearance of government expenditure, where we do not have any confidence and we would vote with the two hands 'no' because we do not trust you and it is our right not to trust you about the Recovery Fund, but what it has to do with the same amendment - and I would like to clarify it, Mr President, because I think that we all agree here - because you have within the same amendment a provision that we wish to vote for which concerns the officials of the Armed Forces and the Security Council on the costs of moving, the compensation for training we want to vote on, but you are enlisting us again. But the main thing is, Mr President, and I think you will agree, that it is about extending the provision of an Article 95 honorary service, which says that it is lifelong honour for Greek soldiers because of their participation in the events of Cyprus in 1964, 1967 and 1974 and that the commanding officers also enter. Of course we want to vote on both hands. We're with them and it's an honor that comes and we're late to do it. But we're stuck. Thank you for giving me the floor, to clarify as Greek Solution that the life-long provision of the Greek armies of 1964, 1967 and 1974 to Cyprus with the Recovery Fund is not relevant to an amendment. That's how you lock us up and we're not driving anywhere. We must have the right of every article to vote differently in order to make our vote clear for each provision. We denounce that, Minister, and we would like you to sit down. You realize we're in an uncomfortable position. We do not want to give you green light for the Recovery Fund, but you have in and an amendment for these people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u187	Understood. Mr Papathanassis, you have the floor anyway for your speech and if you appreciate it, you can answer it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u188	Thank you, Mr President. Just because he was mentioned, and you were obviously not here, by Mr. Dogsky, it is acceptable and no matter what. Obviously this will be a unanimous decision of the House. Therefore, it is not understood that there was any intention in this. We accept exactly your remark and accept that you support this provision. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today and you will then be called upon to vote on the draft law on strategic investments, the improvement of the investment environment, the speeding up of licensing procedures for private and strategic investments and technocrats. I should like to start by congratulating the rapporteur of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Mr Taradili, on the very thorough, detailed work he has done in presenting the bill and all its provisions. But because nothing is done without a group of people - I think it is very important, because here in Parliament sometimes we forget that some people work hard to get these bills to Parliament - I would like to thank my colleagues, the Secretary-General, Mrs Pantelopoulos, Mrs Magda and Mrs Damianou, Mrs Tsironi, and Mr Kavalakis. Ladies and gentlemen, it is very important to understand why we are talking today. I have listened very carefully to Mr Haritsis whether or not we should have a debate on the country's development path or whether we have a plan on where our country wants to go and what we are planning for our country. And I would like to tell you that at least, as I understand it, there has never been such an identification and such a coherent programme, which results from the development plan of the Nobel Prize, Mr Pissaridis, and from the Recovery Fund that has set these development pillars for our country - something that has been discussed and which has been approved - the development pillars as they pass through the NSRP 2021-2027. Of course, this whole framework, which is analysed in many cases, branches and special activities, is included in all bills coming from the Ministry of Development. And because, Mr Haritsis, you spoke about development law, we include provisions of development law here, but you have to understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u189	After a separate bill comes in.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u190	Yes, we have provisions relating to Mr.4399, that's what I mean. And since you too acknowledged that what you received was the subordinations of up to 60 months and the completion and control of investment projects up to 36 months, I would like to say that it is very important to understand that when you legislated on Law No.4399 in 2016, you started with two years' delay - a luxury that we do not have now - and what we received was a medium-term subordination of investment projects. I'm saying you made an effort from sixty months and fell to twenty-four months. Is that enough? That's not good enough. It's not enough for Greece today and tomorrow. It is not enough for Greece, which is trying to achieve growth targets, to fill a large budget gap and, above all, to cover the time of Covid. Why, what we are trying to do, and all this framework that we are discussing today, whether it is called regions, or Macedonia - Thrace, which, as I have said to you, the Ministry of Macedonia - Thrace will have the extrapolation of investment projects from 1 to 3 million, giving him, if you like, a 30% increase in work. This also enables the officials of the Ministry of Macedonia - Thrace to remain actively and at the same time, speed up all procedures. Because what we want is for us to speed up the procedures. We succeeded in the Ministry of Development and the General Secretariat of Private Investment at 100 days. I think that's statistical. We don't have to prove it, you know it. Even for the cycle that closed in July in 100 days, the provisional paintings came out. So what we want to do is to broaden it up throughout the country so that all investment projects are completed and subjected to 60 days. But, even more importantly, within the time of the crisis and the difficulties of the small ones, the very small ones - because they have the special features that need even more support - when a programme is completed, it is possible by means of a declaratory act of the auditor, condensing and eliminating all bureaucracy, completing and getting back the guarantee letter that, as we all know, is essentially cash, guarantees and costs too much. So is that enough of what we've done? No, it's not enough. That's why the next law we'll discuss and be presented, probably today, for Western Macedonia and Megalopolis, Mr. Perka. That's why the new development law is coming. However, because I have heard a great debate about strategic investment, I would like all of you to think if you really and how many of you have not used one of the strategic investments: Attica Street, for example, Eleftherios Venizelos airport - and that is not all. I'm going to need more time, Mr. President. Not only that, but all the investments, whether called Costa Navarino, are called TeamViewer in Yannina, either called Pfizer, whether called Microsoft, whether called Digital Real, or called theraCell that was just approved, have been invested with special characteristics. In other words, they create strategic investments, an ecosystem around them with multipliers important for the economy. What multiplier can it have, Costa Navarino and TeamViewer in Iannina? TeamViewer in Yannina, therefore, employs, like Pfizer, young people and young people who are finished by university institutions and give them employment and keep them in the area, but even more so, what they do is create the conditions, so that the people who left during the crisis and those who left are 500,000 Greeks, where 51.4%, belongs to the age of 25-44. So you understand how critical these young people who have left to go back to Greece, to make their family here, to stay here, precisely because a strategic investment gives this potential. And what happened? Are the strategic investments enough? No, it's not enough, we need more strategic investments. The whole framework of the bill is to bring more strategic investments. And since there has been a debate on how effective the continuation was, this attempt to bring strategic investments, I would like to say to you, that in this two-year period we have 23 new global budget lines of 5 billion and 4,000 jobs. I would like us to be careful about the part of tourism. Yes, we are changing the productive model, but tourism is an industry that supports labour, creates jobs, particularly in the region, and above all these jobs come from large investment. So, ladies and gentlemen, this bill supports one of the development pillars that we want to have in our homeland, to create just conditions for regional development, because, above all, all these investments, I would say 95%, are in the regions. It is not here in the center of Athens, it is investment that is located in the region and that is where they create jobs. From the first law, therefore, "I invest in Greece", we tried to implement, speed up procedures and what we wanted to do - and differentiate ideologically - is to trust private initiative and certified auditors or certified bodies. Developing a relationship of confidence, but keeping as a state the ability to effectively control investment, which creates a business-friendly environment but also a relationship of trust between the state of certified foreign auditors and investors. So it gives them the confidence that the state here comes a man and does not come to hug the investment deadly by killing the project before it even starts. And because I know that you are trying, Mrs Perkas, on the Greek side, I want to tell you that the hooks were many and we had to face many problems so that we could get to this point. If you want, then, to have a debate on the national development strategy, we have to agree that the characteristics of this bill are precisely at the heart of the state and state development strategy. I also told you in the committees, which has become a high-level debate, to tell me what you can say that it is not in the right direction when we talk about agri-food, research and innovation horizontally at all levels, in biotechnology that we know how much added value is in research centres, in the cultural and creative industry, in robotics, in medical tourism, in the management of waste, in the cloud computing, in the IPCEI or in the important projects of common European Interest, which I think is a key strategy for Europe and in the European strategy for industry and the development of 2020, together with the value chains that we have included for the first time in a law to support entrepreneurship. What are chains of value? Microelectronics, high-performance electronics, batteries, energy storage, connected and autonomous vehicles - I think it is clear where technology is going - the safety of the Internet that we all need here, health, the low-carbon industry in order to get to neutrality the energy, hydrogen and the Internet of things. It is therefore very important that through this framework that we include this strategy which is just sitting on what we have designed as a state to enable, because every strategic investment creates jobs, we should lower the threshold so that we can accept investment. But here at the Ministry, we accept the investments. More work we want to do, in order to speed up, create new jobs and go out as a state and say that the dividend from growth, which we will be able to share to our fellow citizens economically vulnerable, but also to all social programmes, will be even stronger. And if it comes up, which sometimes in a few suggestions I heard it, about the jobs we have done is that we have tried to put more investments, which does not remove the right of any strategic investment to enter. We talked about tourism and I told you that we should never demonise strategic investment in tourism because they give thousands of jobs to our fellow citizens in the region, 99% in the region. But we have strategic investment 1, 2, state rapid licensing investments - not to mention them - all have jobs. There is nowhere to remove the demand for jobs. And none of them get a grant, tax exemption they get. Where do we have no special features? What will be financed by the Recovery Fund and what we call it flagrant investments of great importance. Why do we call them flagrant investments of great importance? And the three-member Commission is not going to approve them. That's not true. The three-member committee from well-known scientists will suggest to the inter-ministerial community. The Interministerial Council will decide whether an investment is of great importance, because that is where we want to take a step further, to enable the state to accept exceptional cases which are not judged by the height, because you cannot judge a research activity that is involved, for example, in the production of a vaccine or an innovative research activity to judge it with the level of investment with jobs. We will judge whether this investment really will give added value to our home country to educational establishments, which I know are concerned with, the graduates of our universities and, above all, will give our home country what has been missing innovation, research and will put it on the map of the international community in relation to new technologies. So we are speeding up in a one-stop shop process and transferring certain responsibilities, as I have told you, outside the Ministry, and that is a register, let's say environmental permits, and I will say about the environment, where we transfer responsibility to certified assessors in the Ministry of Energy precisely so that there is no delay. A lot has been heard about environmental licensing. I want to tell you that we are nowhere removing the state's right and the procedures for environmental licensing. And where it was mentioned, but also in the NATURA areas, there is a clear ban on the implementation of strategic investments in NATURA regions and not just the NATURA regions. We trust the President-in-Office's decrees with the Council of State. Who in this Chamber can question the authority of the Council of State? And if we are talking about specific urban projects, which are environmental support and spatial planning tools, what we are doing is to give the possibility, as in the ESDPs, to include those areas which are already carried out through the ESDPs, the Aegean, but always by means of a presidential decree, which passes through the Council of State. Ladies and gentlemen, what we want for a very sensitive part of Greece, which is the areas of liberation, the whole of western Macedonia and the four counties, but also the Peloponnese, the municipality of Megalopolis, the municipality of Tripoli, Gortynia, is - and that passes through all the ministries, but above all it passes through the Ministry of Development, since we now have that power - to give the opportunity and convenience to more investment to go to the area of liberation. We are therefore lowering the amount and the amount required for an investment to go to the region of western Macedonia. How can we disagree on this strategy? And because we move forward to provisions that speed up and are important in private investment, because, as we said, we will also have the new "Development Law - Greece Strong Development" that will be submitted during the year, so that we can use the registers of assessors of the Chamber of Finance, the Technical Chamber, we have increased the evaluation committees precisely so that there are no delays and we have succeeded with ministerial decisions and a technical solution to issues to speed up the Directorate-General for Private Investment and what we want to do, as I said at the beginning, is to extend it to the whole territory. A time limit is therefore introduced for each service. And I am talking about the region, where in the regions of peace, at least 55% of the projects have been left and what we want is to see the regions catch the targets. We are now confident that with the tools we give them and with the workload, although they are clearly understaffed - that is indeed a truth - we will all be synchronised in sixty days. That's what we want. A businessman who comes to invest in sixty days to know. Because you are well aware that if the businessman fails and starts to carry out his work and endures, he cannot ask again for his application to be made to development law and, in essence, this could jeopardise the entire performance of his work. We therefore also proceed to compulsory auditing by a auditor for projects of over 700 thousand euros, while maintaining the possibility of less than 700 000, which are smaller investment projects, that the Committee of Auditors operates in the Register of Certified Auditors so that there is no burden. We give an additional percentage if a project is very rapid in order to be able to absorb resources as well as 65%. We allow expenditure between one category and another to be transferred so that there is no loss, if you like, of support for business plans. And finally, we digitize all the processes and operation of laws 3299 and 3908. But that's not all. Because, as we said, it's not enough. We must continue and bring in new provisions that will speed up the entire process of licensing. Therefore, as far as the funds are concerned, it is a category of investors who go to this provision, speed up and give temporary permission in fifteen days, which was one and a half to two years. And tell me, what does an investment in the Greek economy mean to start in one and a half years, compared with fifteen days? And we are now talking about multinational colossians, companies that bring real jobs and invest in Greece. Ladies and gentlemen, what we want to do from the start - and we will continue - is what the Prime Minister said at the start of governance in 2019. We want to create a pro-investment environment. In order to create a pro-investment environment, we must have a strategy that right now, the strategy and all the legislations are at an absolute frequency. But at an absolute frequency, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, there is also the government that has only one frequency of what it wants to see in Greece. And that's the frequency of growth. In this direction, every article of this bill, but also of those coming, will add something to the Gross Domestic Product. Each addition to Gross Domestic Product will also mean jobs. Every job will give young people and young people a job and bring back, as in PFIZER cases and other major strategic investments, our fellow citizens who are abroad. And any added value in the country's GDP will also create a share of growth, which we will make available to those who need it. This is our plan, ladies and gentlemen. And this serves the bill, and I invite you to vote on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u191	We continue with the list of speakers. After the Step has been prepared, we will give Mrs. Jack Theodora the floor. It's a loose end of the first voice record. Then we'll continue with Mr. Spanakis and Mr. Xanthiopoulos. Come on, Mrs. Jackie.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u192	Ladies and gentlemen, the legislative hyperactivity which has been taking place in recent years with these pointless, pointless and in many cases damaging, I would say, amendments to investment law have a unique communication objective, to hide investment apnea and the lack of any investment perspective. This is a reserve in the regulatory field to hide the total lack of investment in the real field, namely the Greek market. The leading moment of the mastro-hailers in front of the Greek, tearing up ruins, in the presence of the "Petsimons" media, celebrating with vulgar titles, will always mark their investment performances in our new economic history. So it is a characteristic picture of the demolitions and ruins that are being projected as the realization of the coveted assets to our investment market. So demolition, ladies and gentlemen, is the investment offered by the Ministers for Development of New Democracy, instead of reconstruction and investment development. Thus, investment masculines and demolitioners appear as supposedly catalysts of investment. It would be laughing at these really, but unfortunately today, in this great crisis, poverty and accuracy, it is for black crying. Ladies and gentlemen, we will all agree that the great challenge right now and the real reason why this bill we are discussing today is to absorb the resources of the Recovery and Resilience Fund. They are these 30.5 billion to be absorbed from our country by 2026, of which 17.8 billion are grants and 12.7 billion are loans. This money is the historic opportunity for our country to have a new production model, more extroverted, competitive and green. A State that is more efficient, with less bureaucracy, digitally upgraded, with a drasticly reduced gauging economy, with a development-friendly tax system and a more robust social protection network. There is absolutely no objection to all of this. Instead, what do we see with this bill? We see investments that are not part of any national development strategy. We see investments that are not part of a real strategic conception for the Greek economy, restoring the random, occasional and opportunity that will come from investor pressures. We see investments that will be characterised as strategies and emblematics on the basis of a framework, which is far from being any approach that emphasises the production of domestic added value, the productive footprint on the economy, the protection of labour rights, environmental conditions and our cultural heritage. There's just one goal: check the whole system and nothing else. In order to qualify as an investment project as a flagship, a three-member committee is now decided, made up of a decision by the Minister of Economy and Development and the Minister of Finance. This provision of Law No4608/2019, which has been classified in an objective manner, which is, that is, to say, the first place in the world or pan-European, is repealed. That leaves a huge margin for intervention. Monitoring of the integration of the investment is also an important stage, a serious issue. There is nowhere in this bill to be found in the time frames of implementation, not even a memorandum of cooperation. It is therefore clear that the sufferings of the past did not take lessons. - all of this, i.e. investment projects that were part of the strategic investment, but were never able to complete. In almost all cases, the minimum budget and the minimum jobs are reduced. The fact is that certain investments are being promoted. This is a clear reinforcement of the simple construction and sale of tourist dwellings, with what this implies for a country with unemployment rates, such as our country. Minister, is that what we wanted? Is that what we're pursuing? Spain's suffering didn't teach us? As far as the coastal zone is concerned. This is treated exclusively as an economic resource and not as a common good as it is, or as an environmental resource. It favours altering it with technical works of the natural relief of the coastal zone, and it should be ensured exactly the opposite. You are thus effectively leaving each investor in white, the right to use and form the saint and by extension the privatization of the public goyal. You have a tendency in general to remove responsibilities from public services and entrust outsourcing to the private sector, rather than strengthen and strengthen these services. There is a general tendency that the rule should be replaced by derogations on a case-by-case basis, without knowing what and who they ultimately serve, but above all, without guaranteeing the existing productive activities and the environmental conditions. It's a development bill, it belongs to investment law, and there's not even a line to protect the environment. Many open topics remain for both spin-offs and technicians. Definition, purpose and scope are nowhere to be found in the provisions of this Legislation. A problem is also the provision linking the participation of a researcher in a company of technicians, as a partner or member of the Board of Directors and its development in a university grade. There are also no requirements of compliance with these companies in matters of bioethics, the environment, public health, etc. I said this in my speech in the Committee on Production and Trade, Mr Minister, and I will repeat it once again today. What you do, that you deprive the only development, I would say productive responsibilities from the Ministry of Macedonia and Thrace to give them to the Ministry of Development, is a crime. It makes this bill more central and I would remind you that you have done the same by abolishing the Interreg management authority which has been working on cross-border programmes. And I sincerely wonder, these Members of the Thessaloniki of the New Democracy, where exactly are they, and this Minister for Rural Development, I think he will now have a clean time, Minister, to open up to fairs, because the only productive and developmental competence he had, you will remove it with this bill. Ladies and gentlemen, strategic investments in our understanding are not only large investments. They are investments, as I have already said, in a national development strategy. They must combine balanced regional development, a high budget for investment projects and a significant number of jobs. In other words, they should produce significant positive quantitative and qualitative results in the Greek economy. These are inconsistent with the orderly institutional framework that we are debating today once again, which is another missed opportunity to move on to this new productive model, which we all argue we need, which will attract investment in favour of local societies and economies. And I will only conclude with one comment, Mr President. I need a minute. The 1144 amendment you tabled yesterday is essentially a shameful confession of guilt and an attempt to cover political crimes committed in the light of the day for two years, in front of the eyes of the Greek people with the Pecha lists. The political manipulation, ladies and gentlemen of the information, of the present government's power is a serious state violation that will forever mark it in our political history. The press's declining is a collapse of democracy. Even the suspicion of this state crime leads governments to resignation, as happened in the case of Austria. Here you are trying unequivocally, for a period of almost two years and you are escalating nowadays, in such a way and to such an extent, and that is why, in the present shamefulness, you are attempting to cover up the self-proof violations of the laws and democratic order. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u193	The next speaker is Mr Spanakis from New Democracy. Mr. Spankee, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u194	Thank you very much, Mr President. SYRIZA tries every way to drop the ball on the platform. And unfortunately, two and a half years hesitates to tell the Greek people the truth. He comes to the Chamber today to tell us what? That he doesn't want this bill. So what does it say clearly to the Greek people? "Lords, we do not want investment to be made in the country, because we did not have time for five years and for you to speed up the investments, which you are expanding investment, which is facilitated by investment, which is closely monitored by investment, we disagree." That's what you tell us in this Chamber. I have already heard the SYRIZA spokesman - lately in SYRIZA, you see ghosts, many ghosts - say that the amendment that has been tabled has something to do with the list, etc. Please and I invite you to finally see and read what this amendment brings. This amendment comes to improve provisions and has nothing to do with what you said from this Step. For when we speak of elected Members from this Step, we must be very careful in all our opinions. Especially when we try to misinterpret, that is unfair and not right, because that is what the previous speaker did. It distorted truth and reality. Ladies and gentlemen, many opinions have been heard and much has been heard about this bill. Three words characterize this bill. Just so the Greek people understand us. Enlargement of investment. We're widening the list of investments, the charges. Acceleration of procedures. Decrease bureaucracy and add the mold, put the frame in. Just stuff! You can see through the sixty nine articles these things. And thirdly, monitoring, a Ministry of Development and Investment not in words, not in sign, but in practice. This brings the bill and speaks very simply this bill. He's talking about motives. Does anyone disagree that, in order for investment to be made, both taxly and licensed? That brings this bill, quite simply. He's talking about real estate development. Does anyone in this Chamber argue that we should make use of the properties of the Greek public, namely the Greek taxpayer, that is to say the Greek people? It speaks of investment as strategies, but at the same time it also creates the conditions for the development of private investment. It comes and defines the obligations of the investment entity. He doesn't leave it undisturbed vine. It says in particular what the obligations of the person who wants to invest and of course also speaks of foreign investments. Ladies and gentlemen, if we go to the first year of the Economic University, we will learn that real income depends on consumption, investment and exports. And this bill helps increase the Greeks' real income, because it comes to bring investment into the country. And since the budget is already under discussion and will come to plenary, we will also have an increase in consumption. If it bothers you, ladies and gentlemen of the Anti-Population, that this government brings a budget of 2022 where there will be a real increase in consumption and a reduction in unemployment, but also a bill today which boasts the need to increase investment, say it not to us, but to the Greek people, tomorrow, on the road, on the cafes, on the sidewalks. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Let's make it clear, because I'm on the channels tomorrow, and I'm gonna say that you don't want the investments. That's the truth, and we have to call it from this Step. Let me also refer to the amendments. I have already heard my colleague from the Greek Solution say that it is difficult to vote for the amendments. I want to tell him not to make it difficult, to vote for the amendments too. Because we are also clear about the amendments on a number of tax issues, on issues relating to the extent of PYRKAL. Minister, allow me from this Step to ask you to accept the request of Metropolitan Kessarianis, Byron and Hymittos for the Church of Agia Varvara located within the area of PYRKAL. As you see the amendment, in paragraph 2 of Article 1, you make it clear that religious areas are also allowed. Granting the use of the Church of Agia Varvara to the Metropolis of Cesarean and specifically to the Holy Temple of Evangelism of the Theotokos and Agia Fotini Himittou. It's a Metropolitan request. Once you're clear, accept it. I'll testify to you with a question. I think, however, that you are clear in this amendment. Let me also speak about my constituency, and say that there are amendments which are clear about St. Kosmas. Because in this Chamber - and also outside the Chamber - we hear that we are finally doing nothing about the investment of the Greek, etc. We are clear about the provisions in the amendments and the issues of St Kosmas. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In conclusion, let me also mention Amendment 1145, which extends the deadline for the completion of investment projects, as well as that the aid paid under the 'e-retail' action is tax-free, unregulated and irreparable, and that the grant of existing small and medium-sized enterprises is a subsidy. As is also duty-free, unrestricted and incomplete the aid paid, the grants of companies providing accounting and tax services. I wonder: will you vote against these amendments? We have heard something even - and I close, Mr President - that you disagree with the redistribution of the appropriations for the Recovery Fund brought about by Amendment No 1146. But that's possible! Haven't we made it clear that the Recovery Fund will carry over 32 billion and these ones over eighty thousand jobs by 2026? And you're coming to say what in this Chamber? Are you going to say that you disagree with technical provisions of Amendment No 1146? Or are you going to vote for the extension of the provision of honorary services under article 95 of Law 4714...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u195	Mr. Spankee, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u196	I'm closing, Mr. President. ...where is the EUR 200 per month price paid from 1 August 2020 to soldiers serving in Cyprus during the war period? Ladies and gentlemen, you will not be able to stop this speed that the Government of Mr Mitsotakis, the Government of New Democracy, has to legislate. For us it is a moral obligation, a political obligation towards the Greek people to implement all the commitments we made before 7 July 2019. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u197	Next speaker, Mr. Theophilos Xanthiopoulos, from SYRIZA. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u198	Thank you very much, Mr President. I shall refer only to the amendment we have tabled. 1149 special number 96/30/11/2021 and it concerns the introduction of a specific crime in Greek criminal law with sex characteristics. Ladies and gentlemen, in the country today we have more than eighteen thousand deaths resulting from the pandemic and a cloud of death has prevailed. Apart from pandemic deaths, however, we also have deaths with special characteristics. Recently, we have a fourteenth victim with an extremely racial dimension. He was killed, murdered by a citizen of the Hellenic Republic, mainly and primarily, because he was a woman. We can no longer stay uninterested in this drama that is taking place next to us, in our homes, in our neighborhoods, very close to us and at such a worrying rate that no one can say incompetent, far more, indifferent. Starting this month, we tabled this amendment, which the New Democracy Government rejected on the grounds that an overall reform of the institutional framework for domestic violence is being studied. But, you see, the facts are rough. Social reality is painful. And one more victim came to the order of the victims of this racial dimension to put us before our responsibilities. We are therefore repeating this amendment, which we support and which we support, saying: Very recently, the European Parliament adopted a report - a proposal from the Greek Parliament, Mr Helena Kountoura, by SYRIZA, which includes the following obligations: the Commission must include racial violence in the list of European Union crimes Euro-crimes; that specific measures must be adopted by the Member States and the Commission to eradicate cyber violence; the best possible access to structures for support structures and services; there must be a special training for authorities managing domestic violence; the treatment of economic violence against women; specific programmes to prevent violence; there must be a prevention mechanism in times of crisis; and a system for collecting information to eliminate violence. Besides, the term gypsy is mentioned for the first time in British legal terminology in 1801. The debate has been opened all over the world, because the painful results of this practice should not leave anyone unwise. In Latin America, the highest rates of murder and abuse of women are recorded, since statistically a woman is murdered every two hours. The feminine murder is not the same as the homicide of Article 299 of the Criminal Code, since it consists of something extra, which must include introducing a relevant provision to be revealed and charged. To this end, a new category of offence and a new provision in the Criminal Code are required. In particular, in the case of gypsy there are two extremes, the extreme criminal behaviour with the violent removal of a person's life and, secondly, the extreme death form of that violence called racial or sexual violence, that is, the fact of the murder of women because of their gender, because they are women. In any case, we are faced with a dual identity of violence, a force of pluralism. There is therefore a long way to take initiatives, to introduce a new provision on feministry, because the provision of Article 299 does not in itself cover the social dimension of this issue, that is to say, a penalty for the removal of life because of such sex incentives and characteristics. See a little how he's been through the public sphere so far this kind of crime. "Trades of honor", "pay crimes", "kidnapped because he loved it", "can't stand the idea that he left it", while underneath as an infrastructure, as a cause there is this patriarchal concept, that the woman is an extension of myself, that it is something that belongs to my sphere of authority and, therefore, I manage it according to the will and as I want. For all these reasons it is necessary and appropriate to lay down a provision for the treatment of the forensic, criminal and anthropological phenomenon of gynaecological crime by men against women and because of their gender. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I close by reading this provision: Article 82a of the Criminal Code referred to in Article 82a of the Penal Code is replaced by the following: Article 82a, crime with racist and sexual characteristics: 1) If a crime has been committed with passion, the choice of which has been made by reason of race, colour, ethnic or ethnic origin, genetic achievements, religion, disability, sexual orientation, identity or gender characteristics, the penalty framework shall be defined as follows: Firstly, in the case of a offence punished by imprisonment for up to one year, the minimum penalty threshold shall be increased by six months. In other cases of defects, the minimum threshold shall be increased by one year. Secondly, in the case of a felony, the minimum penalty threshold is increased by two years. In the crime referred to in Article 299, when it turns against a minor or adult woman, it is a prestigious case that it will be carried out on the basis of the sex of the victim. Gynecology. The nature of the crime referred to in Article 2 as a feminine offence shall be explicitly mentioned in the statement of reasons of the decision even when the perpetrator is punished for the circumstances of the previous subparagraph under another criminal provision. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, you have a responsibility to society and social reality. A few weeks ago you rejected our amendment because you claimed that you would bring about a reform of the framework of domestic violence. The facts are running and they require us to legislate immediately. When it comes to tightening, you hear the cafes and you see the headlines. When you see the feminine murders, you keep quiet and you force us to put the matter back on track. The whole responsibility is yours. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u199	Mrs Arabatzis Fotini has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u200	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in 2018, a few months before political change, Greece was unfortunately last in the European Union in investment ratio to gross national product with just 11.1% compared with almost 21% of the European average. In that year, the gross fixed capital formation, i.e. the index reflecting the investment activity fell to 1996 levels, whereas in particular in the last quarter of 2018, the decline in investment reached a record of 26.77%, which is the highest percentage of the last 12 years, i.e. even from the period of acceleration of the economic crisis. In 2019 the investment gap in Greece was estimated at EUR 130 billion, to use the most recent Commission calculations under Professor Christoforos Pissaridis. And how should it not have reached such an unconscious height, when a series of emblematic investments not only remained inactive, but the bilingualism used by the SYRIZA Government - ANEL sent out a very clear message to the investors concerned - unfortunately - throughout the planet! "Don't bother with Greece you'll get in trouble, you'll make a hole in the water," in short it was the message. I stress bilingualism because on the one hand you were the most willing students towards the institutions in the context of the most precarious, unnecessarily and disastrous Greek economy that you agreed on in the summer of 2015 and on the other you systematically undermined investments, using the costume of the folk agonist as a fig sheet, of course, at the once party audience of 3%. And because, of course, in the four and a half years of your government service, you did not discover the easy way to bring money out of nowhere, whatever sector, which Greeks were productive, you taxed it rabies. This has become particularly noticeable in the primary sector, which has actually been put under pressure as never before. And if he endured, this is credited to dynamism, to the tsagan - to say more folkly - the Greek producer who has strong and experiential ties with agriculture, livestock and fisheries. Since summer 2019, the situation has started to change. It is a common view that attracting investment is the area where jumps have been made over these two and a half years. It may be better if we realize that, ladies and gentlemen, which companies have decided at the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis to invest in our country: Microsoft, Amazon, Pfizer, Cisco, TeamViewer, Digital Realty in the field of high technology, CVC in the field of agri-food, Fincantieri in Shipyards, huge investments by Greek and foreign companies in energy with a peak of renewable energy, storage and electricity, Real Estate, tourism, logistics, industry in general and especially agri-food. The contagious plans have been undone and are on the move. Today the bulldozers work in Greek. Investors trust Greece because they find that there is a government that speaks a language, of course the language of reason, the language of the world economy. A government that believes in private initiative and healthy entrepreneurship to increase national income and create new and well-paid jobs, a government that continuously improves the business environment through bold reforms, with a reduction in taxes and insurance contributions, has drastically shortened the time when an investment is licensed. I'm standing on this. Even anyone who has basic knowledge of economics understands that time is a decisive factor in an investment, because it is quite simply a investor if he is delaying obtaining permits and thus overturning his design, he will either cancel the investment or choose another country to implement it. Such cases have been several - unfortunately - in the days of the SYRIZA - ANEL government. With the bill that we are discussing today, the maximum period for licensing is aspiring not to exceed sixty days. I will say that this is literally a revolution, given that it has only taken two years to set up the committee to decide on the investment. Of course, and I would like to stress this, the shortening of permits does not only concern strategies, very large investments, but it extends to all investments in each grade. After all, the government gave tangible examples of writing with the latest notice of development law, when the investment projects were made in a record time of a hundred days compared with many months that was unfortunately the usual time in the past. I am referring to investments by medium-sized and very small companies, because they are particularly critical in the field of agri-food that incorporates and contains this draft law as well. Because it is the country's strong comparative advantage, as the food industry, ladies and gentlemen, is a quarter of the Greek industry, twice the European average, with exports increasing to a two-digit percentage, with a two-digit record falling from 2019. And of course the margins are too large. This positive momentum comes to use the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, hierarchizing the strategic areas that are strengthened both in strategic investment and in the new development law and in the national recovery plan and in the new NRP. I shall refer, Minister, for ten seconds to Article 7, for the important incentives for the placement you give in this bill. Allow me to make a parallel with how important it was that we were dismantled by our own government, together with the Ministry of the Environment, the spatial development of a very large investment activity in the country which is the aquaculture sector where Greece of course has the primary European Union-wide product value. By making it easier and after decades, by moving forward with the presidential decrees of the areas of organised aquaculture development, we have given the investors the green light. Investments from abroad were attracted, with significant shapes, Bubandala, Filosofish. Bill Gates has invested in Greek aquaculture. We have essentially given the green light for attracting and staying these strategic investors. With these thoughts, ladies and gentlemen, we are voting in favour of this bill which contributes to increasing income, improving quality of life, increasing jobs in the development of the Greek region. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u201	Mr Kavadas Athanasios has the floor from New Democracy. Then Mr Dygalakis, Mr. Symmalenis, Mr. Mandas, Mrs. Gara and Mr. Consolas, the last speaker, will be followed. You have the floor, Mr. Kavada.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u202	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today helps speed up procedures and creates new categories of strategic investments adapted to the development model of the next day. It provides new incentives for the implementation and promotion of strategic investment in our country. It consolidates and improves the existing institutional framework for strategic investments, as established by Laws 4608/2019 and 3894/2010. The draft law also makes important changes to the development law, particularly in the direction of speeding up the evaluation procedures for investment projects. There is no doubt that people in the market and the economy appreciate and appreciate the provisions of the bill positively. At this juncture, a sterile opposition to the opposition is under way, especially when everyone is aware that wealth growth and production are not coming through a state-owned economy but through capital that is mobilising and investing in private initiative. The area of strategic investment is linked to fast track procedures, overcoming obstacles that have so far acted as a burden to implement investments. Writing impulse of responsibilities, time-consuming procedures in particular on complex issues, such as spatial, urban and environmental issues. From day one, the government has been moving to strengthen the institutional framework for strategic investment. In fact, three of the most important changes that took place and which were incorporated into Laws 4635/2019 and 4712/20 had been discussed together with the Minister of Development, Mr.Georgiadis and his legal advisers and touched many future strategic investments and the great investment that is being prepared in my place of Lefkada for the production of Marina in Vlychos. The most important provision was tabled and voted in October 2019 and reduced the budget in order to qualify as an investment at EUR 40 million, of the 100 million that was the threshold, while creating seventy-five new jobs. In this way it has been possible to join strategic investments and the marina in Vlychos of Lefkada, which is in fact the first municipal investment ever approved. Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the incentives for rapid placement and licensing, additional incentives are provided with a fixed tax framework over a period of 12 years but also with specific tax exemptions, such as an income tax exemption on pre-tax profits. These incentives are further strengthened since the provisions of the bill provide for capital aid, the subsidy of the leasing and the subsidy of the wage costs of new jobs and recruitment. At the same time, a new realistic and, above all, targeted classification of strategic investments in five categories is being created. ‘Medical investment 1’ means a budget of more than EUR 75 million or EUR 40 million provided that seventy-five new jobs are created. ‘Medical investment 2’ means investments of EUR 20 million in sectors with multiplier effects such as agri-food, research, biotechnology, cultural and creative industries, robotics, artificial intelligence, internal tourism, waste and waste management and space industry. Alternatively in this category, more than EUR 30 million could be invested with the obligation to create fifty new jobs or 20 million with forty new jobs. "Experienced investments" linked to the green economy and energy. Such investments may be reconnected to the Recovery Fund and receive tax and capital incentives provided that the investment has been carried out by 31 December 2025. ‘Rapid licensing strategies’ linked to the 30 new jobs criterion with a budget of more than EUR 20 million or an investment of EUR 10 million with thirty new jobs in a rated strategic investment. Investments with a hundred new jobs with an investment in a budget of more than EUR 15 million for the modernisation of installations are included in the same category. ‘Equitable integrated strategic investments’ relating to PPP projects and European energy projects of common interest or to the development of business parks. Particularly important are the provisions to make development law regimes more attractive, which is achieved by new more flexible and faster procedures for processing control and supervision of an investment. In fact, the audit procedure will now be carried out by a auditor but also by a certified private body and by an expert in the register of certified assessors. In addition, for the first time, a temporary residence permit is granted to foreign companies to prepare for their activities. Finally, a major innovation in the bill is the arrangements for the establishment and operation of companies of technicians most known as spin off to exploit the research. For the first time, the possibility of interconnecting research with entrepreneurship for the production and promotion of innovative products and services, and also by research staff from public universities and research centres, is being encouraged. Ladies and gentlemen, the vote on this bill and on all the reforming institutional interventions of this government creates the preconditions for another Greece. I would like to congratulate the Minister of Development, Mr Georgiadis, the Deputy Minister, Mr. Nikos Papathanassis, the Deputy Minister, Christos Dimas and the Secretary-General and their staff for another bill with a strong growth and investment mark. The result of these interventions is that in 2021 investments increased 12.9%, while the forecast for 2022 is 15.1%. By improving legislation, we are motivating through faster placement and licensing, tax and capital incentives. This is how we form a pro-investment environment, which mobilizes private capital. This environment, together with the reduction of taxes and measures with a social focus, which increase the available income, creates all the conditions for a new Greece, Greece of growth, progress, wealth production, Greece of new and well-paid jobs, the creative Greece that we deserve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u203	The next speaker is Mr Vassilis Digalakis from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u204	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, technological progress and innovation are key levers of economic development. The significant added value created through innovation leads to a high standard of living but also to a level of social benefits. Although there are no rules to achieve innovation, cooperation between research institutions, businesses, the state and civil society, which is known as fourfold age, can succeed. We all know areas that are worldwide known for their achievements in the field of technology and innovation, Silicon Valley in California, Tel Aviv in Israel. These areas act as a steam engine for the economic development of the wider region to which they belong. In order not to speak abstractly but to connect it to our country, I will take an example from Israel, the University of Jerusalem. This university has about the size of the research and academic ecosystem of Crete, as far as researchers and students are concerned. The technology transfer company at the University of Jerusalem, YISSUM, has founded a hundred seventy spin-offs, whose products generate sales of about $2 billion a year. The total economy created by the University of Jerusalem amounts to $3 billion or €2.7 billion. And because I said that this university has the size of the research institutes in Crete, the figure of 3 billion is about 30% of Crete's GDP. So what's going on in Greece? How can we go in this direction? The research carried out at the Greek universities is of high quality and recognized by international bodies. From universities come the majority, about 80%, of the research project and when rankings are based on research results, our universities are classified fairly high. We have won the tenth place in Europe in an absolute number of research programmes - I note in absolute number - of the European Union at HORIZON 2020. Greece had about three thousand Greek participants in a thousand and twenty-five projects and we exceeded many countries with a significantly larger population than our country. Publication and research work also have a high level. The resonance, i.e. the recognition of the work by foreigners is much higher than the European average but also the average of the OECD countries. At the same time, however, while taking the tenth place in Europe in research, according to the European Commission's reports, we are twenty-five in innovation. So we need to bridge this gap between research and knowledge transfer into the real economy. That's why we need to move on three axes. First axle: institutional framework. This draft law establishes a modern and comprehensive framework for technobularies, spin-offs, compared to the previous one, which was incomplete and fragmented. We have facilitated the procedures for establishing intellectual property rights, an area in which we are far shortened, despite the high level and quality of research. It facilitates the dissemination of research results on the market through technology transfer contracts for the concession of intellectual property rights. We have the establishment of spin-offs, technicians, that is, new innovative businesses from universities, and participation of universities in them, with the aim of exploiting research results and facilitating the participation of researchers in the academic community. We have raised considerable revenues at the university by transferring technology but also contributing to the country's productive reconstruction and the creation of new, quality jobs throughout the economy. This has two-way benefits both in businesses and in universities and research institutions. Businesses will offer universities, not only additional financial resources, but also a range of real problems seeking solutions, the challenges for innovative research and the production of new knowledge and the possibility of stepping up laboratory research and approaching the commercial use of results. The university, on the other hand, will provide business with access to new knowledge and innovative methods for localised problems and the emergence of malfunctions but also financially, commercial benefits in the value chain. The second axis concerns entrepreneurship culture. Let me refer to a personal experience at this point. I have already participated in the establishment of spin-offs in both the United States and our country. In 2013, I applied to elect a dean at my university, the University of Crete. During my speech to the university community, in the context of the electoral process, I was attacked by some allegedly progressive, how I, a man of business, dared to run for dean. I responded calmly to them that the university's interconnection with the economy was on my top priorities and I wished that when my term of office was over, the companies that operate around the foundation have multiplyed. Today two of the most successful start - ups in Greece have been founded by graduates of the Polytechnic University of Crete. Today, as was said at the meeting of the Parliament's Standing Committee on Formats Affairs, which held a series of meetings on the interconnection of universities with the economy, entrepreneurship and innovation are not taboo at our university. Our young people are looking for innovation. Many successful examples start - ups from young graduates are a fact. It's in front of us. So we come to fill the gap and make it easier for them to do what they want to do. Thirdly, support for research bodies is needed to develop technology transfer structures. We are using the available funds, tools, the NRP, the Recovery Fund so that our research bodies can quickly cover the lost ground, technology transfer offices can support technology transfer, through the development of a concrete strategy and integrated support mechanism from each university for the creation of technoblasts, with advisory services, networking, provision and finding funding, clarification of intellectual property status, with the maturation of research results and business plans. Ladies and gentlemen, the innovation map in the Greek research ecosystem changes, changes quickly. It is shown by the confidence of large global companies in the Greek research institutions. We are for the first time optimistic that the Greek university can finally fulfil its third purpose, which is to transfer knowledge to the economy for the benefit of society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u205	We continue with Mr. Nikolaos Syriza.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u206	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the concept of strategic investment is a concept that was originally established by Law 3894/2010 and then evolved and improved, I would say, significantly with Law 4608/2019 and just wanted to point out that strategic investments are something different from common investments. That is, that in the local economy, at local level, they form these strategic investments more permanently and these features with specific standards of size, labour intensity, i.e. number of employees, specific spatial planning and town planning. All this now with the law that you bring today and you will actually vote in a little bit, so that investors can be facilitated and invested without conditions and limits to ensure their own profits. And, of course, these investments as they are legislated by this bill do not obey either the overall sustainable development planning or, of course, fall within a specific spatial framework. I think our parliamentary representative, Mr Haritsis, and also our rapporteur, Mrs Perka, have shown you with concrete arguments what we have received as investment legislation, what we have achieved and how we have incorporated these investments into a comprehensive development plan in difficult circumstances. And I want to remind you that in 2018 we had a record of foreign investments in our country. I should also like to remind you that the framework from 2015 onwards, until 2019 and the framework we are living today is completely different in the economy with regard to the memoranda and crisis - today we are not in memoranda, thanks to the enormous efforts of the Greek people and our own policy, which from the third Memorandum of Understanding, but also because the financial tools today are comfortable and far-reaching on the part of the European Union to the countries - members, which was neither in 2015 nor in 2017 nor in 2018. I come from the Cyclades, which in recent years have been at the centre of the so-called strategic investors, who are naturally in charge of the excellent, natural and marine environment. Through this environment they want to make investments and maximize their profits. I would say to you that in these sensitive, small geographical ecosystems, such as the Cyclades, but also other islands in Greece, if there is no local spatial planning per island, if there is no over-design, such as spatial planning for the RES - because lastly investment in the RES is running - or regional planning, as well as something very important that various operators have said to you, such as the Hellenic Environment Agency, if there are no studies of capacity, then the risk of destruction not only of the natural environment but also of the human environment, biodiversity will be irreversible, as will the tourist product that will suffer very great damage. That is why local communities react with the industrial RES, which come with a great urge to enter our islands. The impact will be on the local economy. I want you to understand this and understand that we are not only fighting to defend the natural and man-made environment that for some parts of our country are handmade, they are the ones that come over the centuries and are transferred from generation to generation. We are fighting to save the local economy, because that is exactly how the tourist product will be badly damaged. The crucial issue of local spatial planning, which began in 1988, was then financed by the Mediterranean integrated programmes - unfortunately, it never ended up with little or nothing. And of course with the Hatzidakis laws, when it was at the Ministry of the Environment, but now also with the labour law involving disasters, both in the environment and at work, all these things are getting worse. And I want to say concrete examples. I tabled on 23 November 2020 for Io, which by decision of the FEC 17/23-11-2020 approved four major strategic investments, complex tourist accommodation. There's been a very big disaster. Ayia's offenses. There has been a huge protest from local society. The Port Authority has submitted two proceedings to the Prosecutors' Prosecutors' Office in Naxos and recommendations from Enterprise Greece to the Interministerial Committee on Strategic Investments. The General Secretariat of Private Investment and PPPs through the Secretary-General replied that they were confidential. We asked for documents to be lodged to see exactly what is being distributed between the services and you replied that they were confidential and cannot be given to the Greek Members of Parliament. These documents are not deposited. The Ministry of Tourism replied that there is a special spatial planning deficit, as well as acknowledging the need for capacity studies, i.e. capacity building. And the question is: with non-existent or minimal services such as those on island Greece today, what kind of control can we talk about respecting legality and regularity? And I would say that there will be no control, because you are advocating an unconditional and limit-free growth and making the wrong eyes to such types of investors. There is another thing about healthy entrepreneurship, another thing about investors who want to take advantage of a natural environment, which we have inherited from generation to generation, and we want to preserve it in order to maintain precisely the cultural, historical knowledge of these sites. If they are destroyed, then in a few years' time we will have nothing to sell. Finally, Mr President, I would like to say that we are obviously not against investment. Our rapporteurs and our parliamentary representative have shown this to you. The dividing line is that we do not want investments without conditions and limits. We want spatial planning, we want urban planning, we want respect for industrial relations, so we want rules on both the environment and work. Otherwise, we cannot talk about sustainable development and social fairness under any circumstances, but we will be talking about developing inconsistent and unregulated that will only suit a few, selective entrepreneurs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u207	Next speaker, Mr Pericles Mandas from New Democracy. (LS)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u208	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, it really is a huge hypocrisy today to hear you from this morning trying to show how much you have been struggling for the development of this place, how you are fighting for investment and how much you really believe in the private initiative. And it is hypocrisy because, unfortunately for you, it is still fresh to remember to the Greek people, to the citizens and to entrepreneurship your term of office in the last four and a half years, when your government has been the one targeting entrepreneurship in our homeland, it was the one that has not shown any emblematic investment in four and a half years, it was this government that taxed everyone and everything, it was this government that increased income tax, increased the VAT on the focus, increased the tax advance, it was this government that taxed the internet, the telephone, the TV, the wine, the coffee, that created a toxic business environment in our country, which was really an example for any reasonable and prudent investor. And it is this New Democracy Government, which has been struggling for two years to resolve all these injustices so that it can bring about a serious situation in our country and create a business environment that we can all have. Because from the very first moment the New Democracy has put its election programme under the crisis of the Greek people and it was clear to everyone that one of the main and most important pillars of planning was and continues to be the change in the economic and development model of our country. This is one of the most ambitious reformist efforts, but at the same time also for absolutely necessary changes we have to carry out, so that our country, in a solid, modern and secure way, finally returns to a page, pursue the stepping up of the modern era, modernize and create through innovation, modern technologies and best and most tested international practices. With today's bill, therefore, the government has made significant contributions to two main areas of our development policy. On the one hand, it develops and improves the legislative framework on strategic investments, creating relationships and dependencies with resources of the Recovery Fund, supporting the "green economy", extending the development law and facilitating the investment of foreign capital, that is, giving a significant boost to the current existing mechanisms and improving the investment climate throughout the country, but on the other, it introduces a new and creative dimension, a dimension of innovation, scientific and innovation in the country's national development strategy, creating a new institutional framework for companies that are technicians, i.e. companies that have at their core research, science, new products and inventions. So with regard to the first part of our country now acquires new categories of strategic investments that promote the most modern sectors of the economy, while reducing the levels of budgets required for an investment to be classified as a strategy. At the same time, new incentives are introduced, not only fiscally, but incentives to place, fast track licensing, grants, leasing, wage subsidies and incentives for tax residence. All of this is done in conjunction with the new land uses envisaged for the strategic investment, create a comprehensive and broad grid of benefits that strengthens every new investment that stimulates the investment climate and facilitates the private economy to blossom and develop, find themselves in harmony and harmony with the state and through faster and more direct processes to have a more efficient implementation of the investment. The changes in the evaluation and control process are also part of this. Of course, some may wonder, since we have been hearing about investment for years and every government is talking about development, what new policy can today bring? So let us be clear and clear about what investments we are talking about, which can be carried out under the new law. We are talking about new areas of activities founding tomorrow's Greece, 21st century Greece, and areas such as farming, biotechnology, cultural industry, robotics. We're talking about waste and waste management, medical tourism. We refer to data centers and cloud computing, permanent studios for film production and large business parks. We are talking about all those areas where international entrepreneurship rises and new technologies, all those areas where we want Greece to become a friendly, operational and efficient investment destination. Of course, we are also talking about flagrant investments, that is to say, investments which, for the first time, have been introduced in our country, because for the first time Greece has acquired a separate regulatory framework for specific types of investments and value. And since we are talking about investment and the environment, I would like to say this: let us finally stop this 'caramella'. Entrepreneurship and the environment can go together. The need for environmental protection can be developed along with entrepreneurship in our country. A business when caring for the environment has much better economic effects and this is taking place in our homeland today. I heard you all talk about Kosta Navarino, this emblematic investment. Do you know that Kosta Navarino has been awarded internationally for her environmental policy? After they did, everyone can do it. So let us stop demonising entrepreneurship and stop using the need to protect the environment as an impediment to the development of entrepreneurship in our country because that is all ideological and ideological criteria it has in the back. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that it is our duty to deliver a strong and modern Greece, a country that knows how to exploit its powers and exploit its real development potential. So this philosophy is doing this bill. We must support this policy with all our powers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u209	Thank you. Mrs Anastasia Gara has the floor from the SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u210	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot help but mention the government's criminal responsibilities in managing the pandemic. We live tragic times every day. Yesterday we exceeded the eighteen thousand dead. Our country is in the worst position in Europe. And yet, Prime Minister Mitsotakis, the only thing he found today to announce was the imposition of new fines on the elderly, their economic extermination as if a punishment were the best way to make the vaccination sabotage, because it would positively not work such a management without a plan, without a strategy, without saying anything about strengthening the ESS, to take measures to encourage vaccination and limit transmission in schools such as 50% plus 1% where we have an increase in transmission and the contact of children mainly with their old grandparents and grandparents. So Mr Mitsotakis and the government continue their disastrous policy with their own concern about the service of clerics and private individuals. The amendment proposed by Mr Economou to today's bill is also in the same sense. This is an amendment - a confession of guilt for the Pecha lists. I am referring to the amendment on public relations with advertising companies and the procedures governing the distribution and distribution of amounts of public advertising. This is an amendment which is a confession of how you shared taxpayers' money through the Petsa listers was opaque and outside the rules and institutional framework. Even Mr Economou's reply, which is distributed in writing in the statement of SYRIZA Members, confesss exactly the same thing. All you cared about was manipulation of public opinion, rewarding the state money, which they made propaganda and supported you, and, on the other hand, strangle economics those who criticise you and actually do the work that the media must do. And because, very consciously, you have acted with the Pecha lists, you have rushed to hide Mr. Pesha from the Committee of Inquiry where we investigate his own things without him. Of course, with such amendments you are basically admitting that he is the principal in charge of the opaque list of manipulation that cost tens of millions of Greek citizens. At the same time, the amendment also has retroactive effect in order to cover, as it says, outstanding payments such as the Kikilis list for vaccination, because it has not been completed. While you are already preparing new lists, as Mr Ploris announced, new assignments, new expenditure on friends and acquaintances, and not on dividends, on strengthening society, on strengthening health and education. It seems, Minister, that the examination has frightened several of your colleagues who do not wish to become Peshas in the place of Mr Peca. The same logic, however, of service of interests and of photographic provisions, goes through your entire policy, your whole logic, as does today's bill. You choose nice fantasy titles to improve the investment environment but have nothing to do with the content and practice of the bill. How can we, Minister, talk about strategic investments, when these do not fall within a strategic framework, when this law you are introducing today does not go hand in hand with the country's national development strategy, when it is planned that investments do not comply with uniform rules and priorities, when there are no special regulations for disadvantaged areas or regional aid. Is it possible at the time of sustainable development, the green transition, to strip the country from critical urban and environmental tools and criteria, to abolish, in essence, a very useful tool and to abolish even single spatial planning? You will, once again, legislate photographically, fragmented and very short-term. Derogations, exceptions, bypasses have become the rule for you and your Government. If the person concerned is a national of a Member State of the European Union or of a Member State of the European Union or of a Member State of the European Union or of a Member State of the European This, of course, does not in any way constitute the creation of a development framework and strengthening our investments and our economy, it is not even a design or a underlying development. The lack of strategy, lack of planning, fragmentary policies and provisions were also a priority in the conclusion of the Intergroup on Development in Thrace, and there we pointed out that a clear, coherent development strategy for the elevation of our region is not reflected. A framework that will essentially be buttoned by all policies, incentives and infrastructure projects, so that Thrace will be attractive for investment, housing, work and entrepreneurship. And you all know very well that Thrace with high unemployment, with high rates of desertification and migration from residents to abroad, needs a strong investment framework. It turns out that the strategic choice for you is the lack of any development framework and plan. At the same time, in today's bill, you are unduly reducing the requirements for minimum jobs and a minimum budget to include an investment in the scheme of strategic investment. Obviously, you are not interested in quality jobs, despite the good jobs that Mr Mitsotakis promised. ‘Close the eye’ in specific interests and prescribe specific branches, you forget the framework for the so-called emblematic investments by providing a three-member committee of technocrats for their approval, excluding public administration from the process. In rules and transparency, after all, you have allergy and the procedures that enter leave room for arbitrary action. Remove the criteria for assessing proposals on the basis of which the return benefits for local communities were calculated, bypassing decentralised services, insisting on the same inefficient atheist model, where everything is decided at the Ministry. You are broadening regional disparities, undermining regional development. Finally, you have brought into the current bill a month late, an amendment which lays down an extension for the cabins in the Evros Delta, leaving them on display for a long time as those who are working there. But the tragic delay and the need for a new prolongation demonstrates the inability and the government's plan to blow up the Presidential Decree, environmental protection and the development of the Natura region. That's why he plays with delays and patches solutions, with practically temporary solutions. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen of the government, you have been turning us back for many years. Instead of preserving and protecting the specific features, the country's natural and cultural heritage, instead of upgrading the economic and productive model with digital upgrades for a state more extrovertible, competitive and green, you insist on fragmentation, photographic provisions, heterogeneous service, lack of planning, removal, in essence, from the rule of law. If we want the country to return a page and our economy to breathe, we need to get rid of burdens and bad practices of the past. To get rid of the logic of derogating, rospheric and lack of rules, the absence of virtually the rule of law. Mostly, however, we need to get rid of your own government that represents all of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u211	Thank you. We have Mr Consola from New Democracy last speaker, and I would like to ask the rapporteurs if they want to have a second language.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u212	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u213	So we're going backwards. Mr. Consola, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u214	Mr President, many years for the day today, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u215	Happy birthday, we're celebrating today, you know.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u216	The whole of Greece, Mr. President, is St. Andreas. It is a day of Christianity and Saint Andreas will give us strength to continue. Mr President, with great interest I have followed fellow Members from all sides, and the truth is that, following the speech made by the Minister, but also by our rapporteurs and parliamentary representatives, Mr Taradili and Mr Bukouros, we have seen that we really need to improve the investment environment through speeding up procedures. No one is questioning it today in the debate. Whether there is disagreement in the way, how to speed up and how to create investment environments, that is, perhaps, ideological but also philosophical, can also be the political framework that we are discussing today. In any case, Mr President, let me say that those who have grown up or trained on the basis of the state-owned perception of the economy are, in fact, very difficult to understand the content and aim of this bill. Even if reality forced them or forced them to mutate, they can hardly be adapted. However, all of us believe it at the heart of an ideology, a policy, a liberal ideology, particularly for the economy, are aware of the importance of this bill. The country needs investment. I'm from a tourist area, the South Aegean, the Dodecanese. You also know very well, Mr President, from the time you were at the Ministry of Development - and the Minister knows better - that from large and medium-sized investments that will create new jobs and increase GDP and, above all, will be implemented quickly and without obstacles, we need not only the Dodecanese, but the whole of Greece, the whole of the region. And that's the philosophy of strategic investment. This is a reality which cannot be overcome, no matter what arguments it is to the contrary. By voting for this bill, a new institutional framework for strategic investment is being established. The confusion and duplication of laws and regulations that had been in place in this context that we are debating today is ending. At the same time, a new and, above all, simplified institutional framework is being created for strategic investments with significant innovations, such as the new categories of strategic investment that meet tomorrow's economy, but also the new development model of the country, in a competitive environment, particularly in the geophysical area that we need to show this positive figure at this time. The second point is to reduce the limits to characterise investment as a strategy and interconnection with the creation or maintenance of jobs. Very importantly, the Minister has also referred to this parameter in response to other positions from the Opposition. The third point is the new incentives that include capital aid instead of the purely fiscal incentives that have been in place to date, a very important aspect that the market needs. Also, speeding up the licensing, control and supervision procedures for the realisation of an investment with the involvement of private auditors gives an impetus, decongestion and awareness of this business mood currently held by all entrepreneurs and all people involved in investment. Also, a framework related to the expansion of the business activities that can be incorporated into the development law, as well as the beneficiaries of the specific categories of aid, is a very important innovation in the law you are proposing today. In fact, strategic investment is now being strengthened with four incentives, including capital support in the form of grants, training subsidies and wage costs, the market wants to buy too much, flexible and faster licensing and placement procedures and the tax incentives that have been and remain in place. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, as I have stressed and before the need to keep up with changes and developments in the real economy, to be able to plan with a look at tomorrow. And that is why it is particularly important that strategic investments can now be integrated into the economy, such as health tourism, the digital transformation of business services, the agri-food sector, waste and waste management and research. Allow me, Mr President, to turn to this point and welcome the fact that a basic programme commitment by the New Democracy is being implemented, but above all the need for years now for the people of the market, the workers and the professionals who have joined the governmental programme, as I pointed out by the New Democracy, for the tourism that I was privileged to be responsible for as part of tourism at the time. I am referring to our clear commitment that large-scale investments in health tourism or health tourism should finally be integrated into strategic investments in order to progress rapidly and flexibly. That's what happens with this bill. And what remains, of course, is to update and activate the institutional framework for the certification of providers to be active in the field of health tourism in line with the standards set by international organisations. The integration of investment in health tourism into strategic investment also opens new horizons for the formation of complex partnerships between hospitals, medical centres and hotels, as well as public-private partnerships. Through these schemes, a broad and attractive framework can be developed to provide a high level of services between enterprises active in the field of catering distribution and health services. It is also very important that strategic investments are also integrated in the energy sector, including electricity storage infrastructure, covering a large gap. Finally, Mr President, it is very positive that the third part of the bill promotes and strengthens the framework for the companies of technicians who can be created by research centres, university professors or by research or academic staff of each grade, very importantly, in order to highlight innovative products and services. As far as you are concerned, ladies and gentlemen, our country is in the 20th place of the European Innovation Index and the forty-seventh place of the global index, and from this point of view the position on this classification needs to be improved immediately. In this context that the government is presently tabling, I think these indicators are also improving. Thank you, Mr President. Congratulations, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u217	Thank you. Mr Arsenis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u218	Thank you very much, Mr President. Parliamentarians, MPs, Minister, really as Nikos Syrian spoke, I see the Minister, and I imagine he would think: What does he say about Io, who has been broken up over the universe by complaints recorded by environmental inspectors about strategic investments in Natura? What is all this about Natura when we have an investor here who wants to do something. Leave him at last, stop him all the time. What I want to repeat is that each of your strategic investments, in which you are currently giving the exclusive use of the hayalus, takes the bread, takes the beach from some business on the island, not from people who visit it with helicopters and live somewhere else, but from people who live on the island, are raped at the place or are in the north-east of Halkidiki, people who live from tourism, honey, products of PDO livestock or are in Io by people who have small units. The beach you want to give investors, which will be called strategic, tell us what the rooms will do, what will the small hotels, the family units that have been built so many years and are operating right behind this beach? Where are people going? You are destroying thousands of financially to benefit one. That's the point. And this one comes in every time now and anyone who denounces environmental crime is also prosecuting him in court. I am bringing you an amendment to the slapps, to these strategic actions and to sue for the intimidation of citizens who denounce environmental crime. What is more appropriate than this bill to be adopted? And yet you rejected it. You rejected what was happening in Canada, Australia, in most of the states of the United States. You rejected it. Instead of protecting those who denounce environmental crime as witnesses of the public interest you let them run out with the answerable complaints with amazing sums they are asked and actions by the various companies who want to intimidate anyone who reacts to Greece. We call on you to stop the dismantling of the environment that each bill legislates and to protect, as we ask in our amendment, those who stand up to protect common goods, the environment, the public goods in that country.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u219	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u220	Mr President, please, I would like the floor for a piece of legislation.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u221	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u222	In Article 53(5)(c), third verse before ‘participation’ the word ‘participation’ shall be deleted. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u223	Mr. Boumbas has the floor from the Greek Solution for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u224	Mr President, we cannot consent to a bill of epidermal, superficial, which does not solve problems for effective regional decentralisation. Once again the New Democracy, the Blue Government, invests in the core by forgetting the kernel satellites where the core does not function without satellites. Innovative proposals must be invested on the substance. As far as medical tourism is concerned, the problem of medical waste has not yet been resolved. As far as rural tourism is concerned, and hence the new NSRF that comes to invest in agri-foodstuffs is not an investment strategy for environmentally friendly farms. On the question of L.4685 the government has voted on, the coast of Evilos has opened up to areas of supposedly high natural beauty investment, so that fauna and flora are disrupted and that will have an impact on the future generations. It is not a bill that really invests in the region in order to organize craft parks. Only as candy you put the public-private partnership in the service of purely oligarchal interests. We do not see a bill, which can actually bring about a substantial spatial planning and a streamlined one so that we can have a decentralisation because of the phenomenon of policing. Two thirds of the population remain in the large urban centre, applying the abstract-centre model, thus paying the region for environmental issues as well. We cannot talk today about a regional development of industrial and craft industries when we have not solved the problem with uncontrolled landfills. It remains and raises this issue, where the European Union continues its fines. The government cannot now speak of defoliation and of a new circular investment economy, when El dorado or Alamos gold is currently allowing for investment in the environment. We cannot talk today about investment in the region, when the livestock sector has not solved it, with a pure-bred livestock. We cannot talk today about an investment project, when we do not know what is a forest and what is not it. So we cannot consent to a bill which will not really bring spring, the regeneration in the regional part, as the government publishes for a final state, giving some to local government, with all these sins of the past, but without giving initiative to local regions, not decentralised, hereditary - this is the fifthness of the democratic culture - and to municipal councils in order to know and promote their own issues in local communities. The government cannot today bring an investment bill, Mr Minister, without giving the company responsibility and initiative through the chambers of commerce, which are simply working through GFCM, that is to say, the Register of Enterprises, without actually giving the Chambers an incentive, apart from being just advisory and advisory bodies, to have a more substantial character. So we're voting against it. Because, Mr President, it is one of the same. Skin clean. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u225	We must now continue with Mrs Diamanto Manolakou from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u226	‘Military investments. Who hasn't used them? For example, the Attica Street.’ Very good example, Minister, really. Because we're paying tolls, they're private streets. In fact, when cars do not pass through to cut expensive tolls - as was done with the lock down, but also with the time of the memorials with the accuracy of gasoline - you and SYRIZA, with hundreds of millions of millions of toll-workers, to make up for lost income. Although within three years, they had been amortized. But for those who had debts and lost their jobs, what did you make up for? Auctions and seizures. Well, that's why your policy is classic and unfair. As far as the ministerial amendments made by the Ministry of Development are concerned, Article 3 on the banning of finished medicinal cannabis products is positive and we are voting in favour of it. We believe that this article introduces a relevant safety net into the pharmaceutical cannabis. It is also a good thing and we are voting in favour of Article 4, which deals with the definition of duty-free, unrestricted and irresponsible subsidy for the Elianiko action, in order to help firms in the port market. We are expressing ourselves in Articles 6, 7 and 8 and voting against the rest. In general terms, therefore, we are expressing ourselves with the'representations' in the amendment. We are voting against the proposal from the Ministry of Finance. Make a real reallocation of the recovery fund, always for the benefit of the capital, by transferring even funds from the public investment programme to the Recovery Fund. I mean, big capital. These are deducted from resources that could go to modern school rooms rather than containers, anti-military protection and other infrastructures for the community as a whole. We have asked to vote independently and separately for Article 7 and for other articles. It has not been accepted and you are not giving us the right to differentiate our vote. Finally, we are voting against the amendment by the Ministry of the Environment. Article 1 of PYRKAL is indeed about a huge land fillet that covers 20% of the Hymittos region, which is given to business groups, which will undertake construction, maintenance, management by the PPP method, gaining great profits from the exploitation of future facilities. You put new multi-storey buildings in a densely populated area of Attica. However, for Article 4, the anti-corruption settlement of the meteors of a people's neighborhood of the Municipality of Paul Mela, we express ourselves with'residences'. Article 5 is unacceptable. In total we are voting against.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u227	Mr. Katrinis has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u228	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, I regret that I cannot share the Minister for Development's enthusiasm, nor can I congratulate the Deputy Minister, his commendable colleagues and Mr Kavalakis, despite the fact that I am sure they have done everything possible for today's bill. This is because the bill that will be passed in a little while only by the government majority is a bill that has no rules, does not serve a stable strategy. The Minister himself said that he was proud to make a bill for investors. I do not think that it sets up a coherent plan, a stable strategy and a framework of rules to attract investment. On the contrary, it follows investment and adapts the policy and legislative process to what the investor needs. I don't know if that's something the Minister feels proud about. At least you, Mr. Deputy Minister, were a little more gloomy and restrained of your position. Nor do I think there is a reason for celebrating the EY's investigation. The Minister to celebrate why we are, he says, twenty-thirds of Europe's direct foreign investment - very nice - having 0.7% of all foreign direct investment. Which is doubled by 0.35%, but remains 0.7%. In fact, in the first ten sectors of foreign direct investment in top sectors, Greece is lag behind in chemicals, pharmaceuticals, electronics and other sectors. It would be a good thing, therefore, when we present the investigations, to present them whole. Because otherwise, Mr Papathanassis, there is a risk that any presentation, individual or selective, may be described. So this bill and this provision do not make it easier for these people to have a decent treatment as do foreigners. It's not something we're going to have to stress. I think you should see it again. In Amendment No 1146 we support paragraph 7, which is for those who fought and fought in Cyprus. We did. We have said about our disagreement in Article 6 with regard to travel expenses and compensation for officials of the Armed Forces and the Security Corps. As far as the first two articles on the Recovery Fund are concerned, we are voting against them as a whole, as well as on the amendment, despite the fact that we agree on paragraph 7 because you are transferring money from the Recovery Fund to the Public Investment Programme and vice versa, effectively depriving it of resources. I shall end, Mr President, with Amendment No 1147 by the Ministry of the Environment. There are also provisions that are problematic, such as PYRKAL, but there are provisions that are positive, such as the one for the Municipality of Pavlos Mela. As you have brought it and legislated it, you are obliging us to vote 'APPROVAL' in this amendment, despite the fact that we agree with some articles and some others we disagree. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u229	Mrs. Perka has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u230	Finally, I would like to say that I liked the debate that has taken place today and I will tell you why. Because truths have been spoken and because differences have appeared and it is very important to talk about knowing what we are different. We're not lying. In particular, the Minister - and I mean Mr Georgiadis - was so sincere that we can really discuss it. He said "I, my pleasure, am with the investors". He said the investor must have a clear landscape. So that's where the conversation begins. In order for the investor to have a clear landscape, so that the presidential decrees in the CC are not dropped, environmental conditions must be respected, you must have tools, you must have spatial planning. He mentioned the "Greek". I have personal experience. This investment, if it were not our government, as we did, would have dropped the Presidential Decree at the SAC, as the Afton Rhodes fell, as the Asteras Vouliagmenos fell and many other presidentially. It can't be without tools. I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and also for the excellent work he has done in this area. It cannot be done by giving land and water. I've heard too much. I heard that strategic planning is a Soviet-type approach. No, it is a development tool, which we must constantly upgrade, update and respect all of us. It's a prerequisite, it's not an idea. We have heard that investors are better aware of the country's comparative advantages. Really? So a government says the investor knows better the comparative advantages, so I don't have a strategy, where I'm going, what's the problem? For the 'Greek' - let's talk about this - investors have left. As soon as the New Democracy took over, Mohegan left. I don't know, we'll see where she's going. New uses of land have been told by the Parliamentary Representative. He said this bill promotes spatial planning because it has new land uses. Really? By law of land use? That's not the law. They are by presidential decrees, with very serious studies. We also heard that decentralisation is causing delays. European and this, in the Europe of the regions? There will be delays, of course, if you do not serve the services, if you do not have the distinct roles for the public and private sectors, which one must respect one another. Obviously, there'll be problems. They can't work the way they are. It's a manhattan logic, the white one. We want investment and you don't want investment. You don't want tourist investments. Have you heard the term ‘bearing capacity’? It is for tourism that we need to take care of. You have heard the Mayor of Santorini say "children, slowly enough". A handful of skills, that's what matters. Before I intervened for the example of Spain. Tourism in Spain was dissolved with such ruptures and interventions. Of course, we have also heard of the third inappropriate memorandum. The other three were needed. So how did they come up? From such provisions, such investments, which do not aim at the real economy, which do not support work, which create deficits, etc. Attiki and Eleftherios Venizelos are not strategic investments. They are concession contracts, PPP with too many other problems. Brain Drain. So long we have been listening to a memorial before we took the government that, he says, universities are in such a situation that scientists cannot serve the economy. And the crisis comes and what is proven? That the economy could not absorb our high-level scientific staff. This has been proven. That's how they left. But they won't come back with what you legislate. In any case, the Scientific Committee of the Parliament and some things about the silence that will be created in the licensing services, the agialos, etc. As far as the Pissaridis report is concerned, we disagree very strongly anyway. But even there you say that counter-incentives should be given for non-project strategic investments. That's what he says. You don't keep it. Two words on the amendments, which are a hundred forty pages, anyway. Obviously, we disagree that you rejected the amendment tabled by Mera25, which we would support. Mr. Haritsis said so too. As far as advertising expenditure is concerned, it is really a confession of guilt. That means retrospectively saying that they have to lay the rules on assignments and so on, it means that they have not so far been. I think it disintegrates the story with the Pecha List. As the previous speakers have said - I do not want to mention one, one articles - indeed there are provisions that we could vote on, but unfortunately there are provisions which are unacceptable and we cannot vote on them. With PYRKAL, I've intervened again. It is not possible again with a law without consultation to pass amendments. They also have this evil, they come directly without consultation, without the city council, local society, participation, and especially planning. There's a Regulatory in Athens. Where is this differentiation, in what urban, in what spatial planning? Inadmissible! Evros obviously would be in favor. For the cavalry, there are problems. The cavalry has its own law and conditions for its protection, because the ecosystem is extremely sensitive. Therefore, a law of a general nature should not be applied. It opens a huge window for arbitrary settlement to the sanctuary, without terms, criteria, without consultation, without planning for a multiplier. Of course, we are voting against the bill. This was shown by all locations. I don't really know, it's one more you vote for on your own. At some point, after he opened up an honest conversation, let's get to the point.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u231	We are now continuing with Mr Tarantili Christos from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u232	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the primary objective of this draft law is the creation of a single legislative framework for strategic and private investment, as we have said, as well as the first systeming of the rules governing the establishment and operation of technicians' companies, spin-offs. The regulatory spectrum of the proposed provisions shows that the government intends to lay the institutional foundations for a solid and long-term investment perspective for the country, which will lead to sustainable development. The provisions we are about to vote on today are a transition to a modern investment strategy, which follows international investment trends and needs, so that our country will become a attraction, both at the level of attracting new activities and at the level of administrative adequacy of all kinds of investment projects. This bill extends the scope of eligible strategic investments to boost strategic investment. Incentives shall be updated for those investments that occur in emblems for the country. The procedures for the integration of private investment, which are covered by aid schemes, are being speeded up for the first time by a legislative framework which will make a decisive contribution to the business use of research, namely the production of innovative products and services at public universities and research centres, with a view to addressing the major international markets. This draft attempts structural interventions in the above areas at a time when the implementation of the National Recovery Plan starts and Greece recovers its position as a credible investment destination. The adoption of the proposed provisions is decisive if we ultimately want to turn our eyes on the future and on the roads of extroversion and innovation, or if we want the opportunities offered by the international context to leave them unexploited. Our country needs to take advantage of its competitive advantages and consolidate its position as a key investment destination in the wider region, which will give it development impetus and guarantee the well-being of citizens in the years to come. With this data I ask you to vote on the proposed draft, to give the signal that Greece wants and can welcome investments that are both modern and sustainable and strategies, to strengthen the private investment that is the backbone of national economy and regional development and to give a vote of confidence in the capacities of public research and public institutions, so that a valuable capital can become a strong growth advantage for our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u233	The debate on the principle, articles, amendments and the whole draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment, "Strategic investments and the improvement of the investment environment by speeding up procedures in private and strategic investments and creating a framework for companies in difficulty". We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles and the amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. I would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, sixty-eight articles, four amendments, the farewell article, and the whole bill. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u234	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u235	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows: Strategic investment and improvement of the investment environment by speeding up procedures for private and strategic investment and creating a framework for technicians’ companies The principle of openness and openness must be applied in all Member States. N.B.YES SYRIZA: OXI Change Movement: OXI K.E.OXI GREECE OF OXI PART25: OXI Article 1 as OBJECTIVE N.B.YES SYRIZA: OXI Change Movement: PN K.E.OXI HELLENIC ACCOUNT: PART25: OXI Article 2 as amended. VOCATIONAL TRAINING N.B.YES SYRIZA: OXI Change Movement: OXI K.E.OXI GREECE OF OXI PART25: OXI Article 3 as amended. VOCATIONAL TRAINING N.B.YES SYRIZA: OXI Change Movement: OXI K.E.OXI GREECE OF OXI PART25: OXI Article 4 as amended. VOCATIONAL TRAINING N.B.YES SYRIZA: OXI Change Movement: OXI K.E.OXI GREECE OF OXI PART25: OXI Article 5 as in FRAMEWORK N.B.YES SYRIZA: OXI Change Movement: OXI K.E.OXI GREECE OF OXI PART25: OXI Article 6 as in FRAMEWORK N.B.YES SYRIZA: YES Change Movement: OXI K.E.OXI GREECE OF OXI PART25: OXI Article 7 as amended. VOCATIONAL TRAINING N.B.YES SYRIZA: OXI Change Movement: OXI K.E.OXI GREECE OF OXI PART25: OXI Article 8 as in FRAMEWORK N.B.YES SYRIZA: OXI Change Movement: PN K.E.OXI HELLENIC ACCOUNT: PART25: OXI Article 9 as OBJECTIVE N.B.YES SYRIZA: OXI Change Movement: OXI K.E.OXI GREECE OF OXI PART25: OXI Article 10 as OBJECTIVE N.B.YES SYRIZA: Change Movement: PN K.E.OXI HELLENIC ACCOUNT: PART25: OXI Article 11 as OBJECTIVE N.B.YES SYRIZA: YES Change Movement: PN K.E.OXI GREECE OF OXI PART25: OXI Article 12 as OBJECTIVE N.B.YES SYRIZA: YES Change Movement: PN K.E.OXI HELLENIC ACCOUNT: PART25: OXI Article 13 as OBJECTIVE N.B.YES SYRIZA: OXI Change Movement: PN K.E.OXI HELLENIC ACCOUNT: PART25: OXI Article 14 as it stands N.B.YES SYRIZA: YES Change Movement: PN K.E.OXI GREECE OF OXI PART25: OXI Article 15 as OBJECTIVE N.B.YES SYRIZA: Change Movement: OXI K.E.OXI GREECE OF OXI PART25: OXI Article 16 as OBJECTIVE N.B.YES SYRIZA: Change Movement: OXI K.E.OXI GREECE OF OXI PART25: OXI Article 17 as amended. VOCATIONAL TRAINING N.B.YES SYRIZA: OXI Change Movement: OXI K.E.OXI HELLENIC ACCOUNT: PART25: OXI Article 18 as in FRAMEWORK N.B.YES SYRIZA: OXI Change Movement: OXI K.E.OXI GREECE OF OXI PART25: OXI Article 19 as amended. VOCATIONAL TRAINING N.B.YES SYRIZA: OXI Change Movement: OXI K.E.OXI HELLENIC ACCOUNT: PART25: OXI Article 20 as OBJECTIVE N.B.YES SYRIZA: YES Change Movement: PN K.E.OXI HELLENIC ACCOUNT: PART25: OXI Article 21 as OBJECTIVE N.B.YES SYRIZA: YES Change Movement: OXI K.E.OXI GREECE OF OXI PART25: OXI Article 22 as in FRAMEWORK N.B.YES SYRIZA: YES Change Movement: PN K.E.OXI GREECE OF OXI PART25: OXI Article 23 as amended. VOCATIONAL TRAINING N.B.YES SYRIZA: YES Change Movement: PN K.E.OXI GREECE OF OXI PART25: OXI Article 24 as OBJECTIVE N.B.YES SYRIZA: OXI Change Movement: OXI K.E.OXI GREECE OF OXI PART25: OXI Article 25 as OBJECTIVE N.B.YES SYRIZA: Change Movement: PN K.E.OXI GREECE OF OXI PART25: OXI Article 26 UNDER FRAMEWORK N.B.YES SYRIZA: Change Movement: PN K.E.OXI GREECE OF OXI PART25: OXI Article 27 as OBJECTIVE N.B.YES SYRIZA: OXI Change Movement: PN K.E.OXI GREECE OF OXI PART25: OXI Article 28 as in FRAMEWORK N.B.YES SYRIZA: OXI Change Movement: OXI K.E.OXI GREECE OF OXI PART25: OXI Article 29 as amended. VOCATIONAL TRAINING N.B.YES SYRIZA: Change Movement: PN K.E.OXI GREECE OF OXI PART25: OXI Article 30 as OBJECTIVE N.B.YES SYRIZA: OXI Change Movement: PN K.E.OXI GREECE OF OXI PART25: OXI Article 31 as in FRAMEWORK N.B.YES SYRIZA: OXI Change Movement: PN K.E.OXI HELLENIC ACCOUNT: PART25: OXI Article 32 as OBJECTIVE N.B.YES SYRIZA: Change Movement: YES K.E.OXI HELLENIC ACCOUNT: PART25: OXI Article 33 as OBJECTIVE N.B.YES SYRIZA: OXI Change Movement: YES K.E.OXI HELLENIC ACCOUNT: PART25: OXI Article 34 as amended. VOCATIONAL TRAINING N.B.YES SYRIZA: OXI Change Movement: PN K.E.OXI HELLENIC ACCOUNT: PART25: OXI Article 35 as amended. VOCATIONAL TRAINING N.B.YES SYRIZA: OXI Change Movement: OXI K.E.OXI HELLENIC ACCOUNT: PART25: OXI Article 36 OBJECTIVES N.B.YES SYRIZA: OXI Change Movement: OXI K.E.OXI GREECE OF OXI PART25: OXI Article 37 OBJECTIVES N.B.YES SYRIZA: OXI Change Movement: PN K.E.OXI HELLENIC ACCOUNT: PART25: OXI Article 38 as OBJECTIVE N.B.YES SYRIZA: OXI Change Movement: PN K.E.OXI HELLENIC ACCOUNT: PART25: OXI Article 39 as OBJECTIVE N.B.YES SYRIZA: OXI Change Movement: YES K.E.OXI HELLENIC ACCOUNT: PART25: OXI Article 40 as OBJECTIVE N.B.YES SYRIZA: OXI Change Movement: OXI K.E.OXI GREECE OF OXI PART25: OXI Article 41 as OBJECTIVE N.B.YES SYRIZA: OXI Change Movement: PN K.E.OXI GREECE OF OXI PART25: OXI Article 42 as OBJECTIVE N.B.YES SYRIZA: YES Change Movement: YES K.E.OXI HELLENIC ACCOUNT: PART25: OXI Article 43 as OBJECTIVE N.B.YES SYRIZA: Change Movement: PN K.E.OXI HELLENIC ACCOUNT: PART25: OXI Article 44 as amended. VOCATIONAL TRAINING N.B.YES SYRIZA: Change Movement: YES K.E.OXI HELLENIC ACCOUNT: PART25: OXI Article 45 as amended. VOCATIONAL TRAINING N.B.YES SYRIZA: OXI Change Movement: OXI K.E.OXI GREECE OF OXI PART25: OXI Article 46 UNDER FRAMEWORK N.B.YES SYRIZA: OXI Change Movement: PN K.E.OXI HELLENIC ACCOUNT: PART25: OXI Article 47 as OBJECTIVE N.B.YES SYRIZA: OXI Change Movement: PN K.E.OXI GREECE OF OXI PART25: OXI Article 48 as OBJECTIVE N.B.YES SYRIZA: OXI Change Movement: OXI K.E.OXI GREECE OF OXI PART25: OXI Article 49 as amended. VOCATIONAL TRAINING N.B.YES SYRIZA: OXI Change Movement: PN K.E.OXI GREECE OF OXI PART25: OXI Article 50 as amended. VOCATIONAL TRAINING N.B.YES SYRIZA: OXI Change Movement: PN K.E.OXI GREECE OF OXI PART25: OXI Article 51 as OBJECTIVE N.B.YES SYRIZA: Change Movement: YES K.E.OXI ENGLISH WHICH: YES PART25: OXI Article 52 as amended. VOCATIONAL TRAINING N.B.YES SYRIZA: YES Change Movement: YES K.E.OXI ENGLISH WHICH: YES PART25: OXI Article 53 as amended. VOCATIONAL TRAINING N.B.YES SYRIZA: OXI Change Movement: YES K.E.OXI ENGLISH WHICH: YES PART25: OXI Article 54 N.B.YES SYRIZA: Change Movement: YES K.E.OXI ENGLISH WHICH: YES PART25: OXI Article 55 N.B.YES SYRIZA: YES Change Movement: YES K.E.OXI ENGLISH WHICH: YES PART25: OXI Article 56 as OBJECTIVES N.B.YES SYRIZA: OXI Change Movement: PN K.E.OXI GREECE OF OXI PART25: OXI Article 57 as amended. VOCATIONAL TRAINING N.B.YES SYRIZA: OXI Change Movement: PN K.E.OXI ENGLISH WHICH: YES PART25: OXI Article 58 as OBJECTIVE N.B.YES SYRIZA: OXI Change Movement: YES K.E.OXI HELLENIC ACCOUNT: PART25: OXI Article 59 as OBJECTIVE N.B.YES SYRIZA: YES Change Movement: YES K.E.OXI ENGLISH WHICH: YES PART25: OXI Article 60 as amended. VOCATIONAL TRAINING N.B.YES SYRIZA: OXI Change Movement: YES K.E.OXI ENGLISH WHICH: YES PART25: OXI Article 61 as in FRAMEWORK N.B.YES SYRIZA: OXI Change Movement: YES K.E.OXI ENGLISH WHICH: YES PART25: OXI Article 62 as in FRAMEWORK N.B.YES SYRIZA: YES Change Movement: YES K.E.OXI ENGLISH WHICH: YES PART25: OXI Article 63 as amended by Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 N.B.YES SYRIZA: YES Change Movement: YES K.E.OXI ENGLISH WHICH: YES PART25: OXI Article 64 as amended. VOCATIONAL TRAINING N.B.YES SYRIZA: YES Change Movement: YES K.E.OXI ENGLISH WHICH: YES PART25: OXI Article 65 as amended. VOCATIONAL TRAINING N.B.YES SYRIZA: Change Movement: YES K.E.OXI HELLENIC ACCOUNT: PART25: OXI Article 66 OWN FRAMEWORK N.B.YES SYRIZA: Change Movement: YES K.E.OXI ENGLISH WHICH: YES PART25: OXI Article 67 as OBJECTIVE N.B.YES SYRIZA: Change Movement: YES K.E.OXI ENGLISH WHICH: YES PART25: OXI Article 68 as OBJECTIVE N.B.YES SYRIZA: OXI Change Movement: YES K.E.OXI ENGLISH WHICH: YES PART25: OXI COMP. REP. EC 1984 1144/91 as amended by Regulation (EEC) No 1144/91 as VOCATIONAL TRAINING N.B.YES SYRIZA: OXI Change Movement: OXI K.E.OXI GREECE OF OXI PART25: OXI COMP. REP. EC 1984 Regulation (EEC) No 1145/92 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October N.B.YES SYRIZA: YES Change Movement: YES K.E.: PRON HELLENIC ACCOUNT: PART25: OXI COMP. REP. EC 1984 1146/93 as amended by Regulation (EEC) No 1146/93. VOCATIONAL TRAINING N.B.YES SYRIZA: Change Movement: OXI K.E.OXI HELLENIC ACCOUNT: PART25: OXI COMP. REP. EC 1984 Commission proposal: OJ C 208, 19.7.1994; COM(94) VOCATIONAL TRAINING N.B.YES SYRIZA: OXI Change Movement: PN K.E.OXI HELLENIC ACCOUNT: PART25: OXI Cereals Article BY SURVEILLANCE N.B.YES SYRIZA: OXI Change Movement: OXI K.E.OXI GREECE OF OXI PART25: OXI Total FINANCIAL AFFAIRS N.B.YES SYRIZA: OXI Change Movement: OXI K.E.OXI GREECE OF OXI PART25: OXI
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u236	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment: ‘Strategic investments and improvement of the investment environment by speeding up procedures for private and strategic investments and creating a framework for technocratic companies’, was accepted in principle, articles and amendments and by a majority total.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u237	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to ratify the Minutes of today's sitting on the whole of this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u238	The House has given the mandate requested. The minutes of the sittings of 4 October 2021 (Morning), 6 October 2021, 7 October 2021, 8 October 2021, 11 October 2021, 13 October 2021, 14 October 2021, 18 October 2021 (Morder), 18 October 2021 (Morning) and 20 October 2021 have been distributed and the House is asked whether they are validated.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u239	The minutes of the meetings of 4 October 2021 (Morder), 6 October 2021, 7 October 2021, 8 October 2021, 11 October 2021, 13 October 2021, 14 October 2021, 18 October 2021 (Morder), 18 October 2021 (Morder) and 20 October 2021 were therefore validated. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-30-S1-commons.u240	With the consent of the House at 21.15 the sitting is closed tomorrow, December 1, 2021, at 9.30', on the subject of Parliament's work; a) parliamentary scrutiny: topical and urgent debate; and b) legislative work: only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Health, "Recommendation and organisation of a legal person of private law under the name "National Central Authority for Health Supplies", a strategy for centralised supply of products and health services".
