ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-20-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-20-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Before we begin, I have the honour of announcing to the House on Friday 22 October 2021 the current Questions Release A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. Under No 75-14-10-2021, a topical question by MP II Piraeus of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr.Tryphona Alexiadis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Proclamation as a preserved monument of PPC's factory in Keratsini". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by number 74/13-10-2021 of the First Vice-President of the Parliament and MP Arcadias of the Change Movement Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister for Development and Investment on the subject: "The way out for the implementation of approved investments is for small and medium-sized enterprises and farmers to refuse to borrow banks and to increase significantly the cost of investment from the serious price increases of equipment and raw materials." 3. The question by No 72/13-10-2021 of the Greek Communist Party, Mr. Liana Kanelles, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Centre for Education and Rehabilitation". 4. The question asked by MP B1' North Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kleonas Gregoriadis to the Minister of Health, on "Reports to the blood bottles". B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No 76/14-10-2021 of the SYRIZA MP, Mr. Andreas Michaelides, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "The need for studies and work to restore Byzantine and post-Byzantine monuments". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 73/13-10-2021 by MP Evia of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. George Marinos to the Minister of National Defence on the subject: "No involvement of Greece in the imperialist planning, closure of US bases, non-shipping of Greek armed forces in Sahel, Africa, return of the Patriot platoon from Saudi Arabia and all military departments by imperialist missions abroad". 3. The question under number 81/15-10-2021 by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Archeological sites in western Athens and its history on the sidelines abandoned by the state". 4. The question by No 79/14-10-2021, by MEP I, SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr.Nikolaos Friend to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Major merging of school departments against all educational and healthist logic". 5. The 77/14-10-2021 topical question by MP Eitolokarnania of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Papastastasis to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Let the prosecution be stopped against journalist Nikos Boyopoulos". 6. The 85/18-10-2021 topical question by MP Pella of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr.Theodoras Jakris to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "A collapse is the Edessa and Giannitsa Hospitals due to the dramatic lack of medical personnel". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. Under number 87/18-10-2021, a topical question by SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance Mr Socrates Famelou to the Minister of Climate Crisis and Civil Protection, on the subject: "In the National Park of Schinia - Marathon, a crime was committed against the environment and biodiversity". 8. Under number 88/18-10-2021, a topical question by SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance Mr. Socrates Famelou to the Minister of Climate Crisis and Civil Protection, on the subject: “The problem of fire protection in the Sheikh - You is swelled by unauthorized and responsible confrontations”. I would also like to inform the House here: The Vice-President of the Government, the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, Economic and Investment, Foreign Affairs, National Defence, Education and Religion, Labour and Social Affairs, Health, Environment and Energy, Citizen Protection, Culture and Sport, Justice, Home Affairs, Migration and Asylum, Maritime and Island Policy, Tourism, Climate Crisis and Civil Protection, State Ministers, and Deputy Ministers of Finance, Foreign and Home Affairs have tabled a draft law on 19-10-2021: 'Driving safely: Modernising the framework for the training and examination of candidates and drivers for the authorisation of vehicles, provisions on the driving of persons with disabilities, arrangements for the classification and movement of vehicles of historical interest and other provisions relating to the competence of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport', referred to the responsible permanent Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now moving on to the debate and the vote on a uniform principle of the articles and all the draft laws of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: 1. ‘Preparation of the Cooperation Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Poland in the fields of culture, education, science, sport, youth and the media’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. ‘Clarification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the United States of America concerning the imposition of import restrictions on a number of archaeological and ethnoological categories of the Hellenic Republic’. 3. ‘Clarification of the Memorandum of Understanding of Cultural Cooperation between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the United Arab Emirates’. 4. ‘Clarification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the United Arab Emirates on cooperation in the field of cultural and creative industries’. The bills were passed by a majority vote in the Standing Committee and were brought to the House under Rule 108 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. This means that those who object to the ratification of these conventions and the parliamentary representatives, if they so wish, can speak for five minutes on condition that the President of their parliamentary group will not speak. The vote on all four conventions will take place at the end of their debate separately and in the order of debate. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-20-S1-commons.u3	The House has agreed. I shall read the positions of the parties as expressed in the debate in the committee responsible. With regard to the Agreement on Poland, the New Democracy and Mera25 voted in favour, while the other parliamentary parties, i.e. SYRIZA, the Change Movement, the Communist Party of Greece and the Greek Solution, expressed the reservation. For the Agreement with the United States of America the New Democracy voted for, the reservation expressed by SYRIZA and the Change Movement, against the Communist Party of Greece, was expressed by the Greek Solution and Mera25. For Cultural Cooperation, namely the Third Convention, the New Democracy and the Communist Party voted in favour, while the SYRIZA, the Change Movement and the Greek Solution expressed their reservations. Mera25 voted against. Regarding the latter, the fourth convention, the New Democracy voted in favour and reservation was expressed by SYRIZA and the Change Movement. The Communist Party of Greece voted against. Responsibility was expressed by the Greek Solution. MARA25 also voted against. We are starting the process and as I have read at first hand the reason why Mrs Kallipe Vetta can now be given. I see that there are two different rapporteurs in SYRIZA, while in the other parties there is one rapporteur. So I'll call Stepma first Mrs. Vetta and then Mr. Skourico for the second contract. Mr Delis, because we are going to go uniform, I would say that we are going to run out of each parliamentary group as a whole. After all, the rest of you four have to defend your opinion, the time will be different. The time for colleagues will be five minutes, with the exception of Mrs Rallia Christidou, which will be placed on two contracts. On behalf of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group - Progressive Alliance, Mrs Kallipe Vetta has the floor for the first convention. Here, Mrs. Vetta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-20-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I place myself on this agreement, I would like to remind you that the Agreement on cooperation in science and technology was ratified by law in 1999 and is still in force. At the same time, the Greek-Poland Cooperation Agreement is still in force in the fields of education, science, media training and sport, which was ratified by law in 1977. The agreement we are debating today and signed in 2013 is about cooperation between the two countries in the same areas. With its ratification you are suggesting that the current 1977 agreement should be repealed, but there are no new elements which differentiate it on substance. Nor in the incomplete explanatory statement are you answering why you think this cooperation is not covered by the existing framework or by our committee. The argument you made that the previous international agreement is, at least, naive and dangerous. Such arguments could lead to conceivable revision of international agreements, because they are old. In both countries, all joint actions have always been taken within the framework of the existing agreement. Even the creation of the Polish archaeological institute you invoked, Minister, in the committee in the absence of other arguments, has been evolving for years in the existing context. Therefore, neither hangs nor depends on the replacement of the agreement. It is clear, then, that convincing answers are not going to be received. These are probably detected in the way the public money manages the power system you represent and in the ways it finds every time to ensure its reproduction. The most important element you hid was that this bill had been filed in the House in May 2014 again by your own government and you served, Mrs. Mendoni, as Secretary General at the Ministry of Culture at the time, so you know that it was you who froze it at the time and you didn't finally vote for it. Why is that? Is it because you have curiously loaded this agreement with an incomprehensible sum of about EUR 1.5 million every three years in the middle of memoranda? At the same time, I would remind you that within the country you were having hospitals, merged schools, fired teachers, while at the same time, at the Ministry of Culture, you were being made available to thousands of employees and sold out much of their real estate. Instead of responding to the committee on your things, you had the courage to say so, if I may - to abandon the SYRIZA who did not ratify the agreement because he took you back as a government again, even to want to charge to the state budget and the Greek people an undignified cost of millions of euros in the middle of memoranda and even indefinitely. What can I say? Let the conclusions be drawn from those who are listening to us. However, in the bill, which you are introducing today, it is not understandable why you are rushing to determine in advance some expenditure in specific fields of contemporary culture, even if it is smaller than those of 2014. Are these not to be formulated according to the proposals of the Joint Committee? Why do you like to direct to specific areas the results of a living process, but which should be about its contemporary cultural nature every time? At the same time, other areas of the agreement seem to be completely deceived. I told you in committee too. Let's say, you don't mention anything about libraries. After all, your policy on them is nonexistent within the country, let alone out. The same goes for sport. No predictions, no references. In the articles on science and youth, the assessment is limited to a number of minimal participations in conferences, while in education, although there is a range of activities, you are confined to an annual scholarship. No one could agree with the general content of such educational cooperation agreements between the two peoples, but it is reasonable to ask both questions about the feasibility, because there is already the agreement, as I said above, but also about the timing you have chosen to bring it, given the European Union's existing controversy with Poland, for a number of reasons that we would like to see, Madam Minister, since we are discussing culture, how do you see Poland's intention to leave the European Convention for the Protection of Women, which has been established by your Minister, Mr Varvitsiotis, how you stand against her condemnation by the European Court of Justice because she has violated the number of refugees she has been subject to, in order to alleviate Greece and Italy, or how you judge, in any case, the three sentences of Poland's by virtue of its law. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need some time, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-20-S1-commons.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, you must not take any more time. In a minute, finish because we have a roll-call vote at 11 a.m. and three hundred Members have been notified. Finish soon.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-20-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. I do not know, of course, what the government would have to say about the rule of law, when the Minister itself allowed herself - and also the government of the Minister - to visit the President of the Council of State, shortly before citizens' appeals for the secondment of antiquities at the Venizelos station or the cementation of the Acropolis or unheard of expatriation for half a century of the mobile monuments of the country or the direct appointment at the National Theatre of Mr Lignade, the lack of any government planning in modern culture - which has been irreparably affected - or your complete indifference to the survival of artists and workers in culture in the middle of a pandemic or to the fact that you initially accused them of being paid black or that you now think you have given them enough time, as you said earlier. Even on the issues of cultural diplomacy you have as a government failed miserably. We're waiting for your answers, but we don't trust you. You have already been judged in the conscience of the Greek people about your policy on the critical and sensitive issues of education and culture that this agreement is dealing with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-20-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Vetta. The floor now has for the second agreement with the United States of America the SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance, Mr Panagiotis Skourikos. You have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-20-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. To ratify the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the United States regarding the import restrictions on archaeological and ethnic material, I would like to begin my introduction to this convention, first of all, by clarifying that we have great concerns about Article 2(5), in which there is long-standing lending of cultural monuments from Greece to the United States of America. Firstly, it is stated that Greece will make long-term loans to America but the exchange of cultural goods from the United States of America to Greece is not mentioned anywhere. Secondly, because the report by the General Accounting Office of the State recognises that this provision entails budgetary costs to the Greek State. By decision of the General Accounting Office of the State, issued on 14 October 2021, it is clearly and categorically stated that it is caused to the detriment of the State budget, if any, by the possibility of exchanging archaeological and ethnic material. Thirdly, the substance and form of long-term borrowing especially after the Minister's reply to the Morphics Committee on Monday makes us very concerned that this article of the Convention also falls under the terms of the archaeological law and Article 48(13) of the Law with which we have certainly disagreed and voted against it. Article 25 of the archaeological law states the following. First, by decision of the Minister of Culture, following a recommendation from the agency and an opinion from the Council, the borrowing of published mobile monuments belonging to the public, held in museums, etc. may be allowed in exceptional cases. Loaning in museums is conditional on reciprocity. Loaning for pedagogical purposes may be permitted if monuments are of no importance to the country's cultural heritage. Loans are granted for a certain period of time and may not exceed five years. It may be renewed by the same procedure. Secondly, by a decision of the Minister of Culture, following a recommendation from the agency and an opinion from the Council, the exchange of published mobile monuments belonging to the public and held by the public can be allowed provided that they are not of particular importance to the cultural heritage of the country, etc. But also in Article 48(13) of Law 4761/2020, in which I said earlier that we disagree that lending and temporary export of objects of museum collections referred to in paragraph 2 and of recognised museums referred to in paragraph 4 are permitted under the terms and conditions of Article 25(1) and Article 34(11) respectively. Thirdly, by decision of the competent body of the Ministry of Culture and Sport issued following the opinion of the Council, the cultural heritage of the country may be promoted and provided that adequate guarantees are provided for the safe transport, report and return of the objects of museum collections other than those referred to in paragraph 2, in order to be exposed to museums, museums or exhibition sites, in particular where the name of their place of exhibition is identified or contains an incentive to export a museum and are exposed only to its own collections. The same Decision defines in particular the conditions for export and the duration of export which may not exceed twenty-five years which may be renewed every five years and up to twenty-five years. Article 34(4) shall also apply in that case. At the same time, the Minister argued that Article 48(13) of Law 4761/2020 applies to private museums. Really, Minister, where in this particular article is there a reference to private museums? Nowhere. Why did everything you mentioned to us in committee on Monday not include it in the explanatory statement you submitted to the Greek Parliament? It is a question that we would like you to answer. Here, of course, we have the combination of two laws, the archaeological law and Law 4761. This position enlightens your positions and intentions very well. You reveal your intentions and I think you are making it worse, at least as far as the time that these treasures will miss out of our country is concerned. Of course, we are voting in favour of ratification of the Convention with the United States of America, without prejudice, of course, to Article 2(5). Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-20-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr. Darkness. I call on the SYRIZA MEP, Mrs. Rallia Christidou, to put on the memorials with the United Arab Emirates, for cultural cooperation and creative industries. Mrs Christidou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-20-S1-commons.u10	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we come to decide on the ratification of two memorandums on the understanding of cultural cooperation and one on the understanding and cooperation in the field of cultural and creative industries between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the United Arab Emirates, following the discussion we have had in committee on Monday and the answers we have received from the honourable Minister on the questions and objections we have raised, which the Minister would very much like to avoid and which is why he has brought all four memorandums of cooperation which are being discussed lately. Of course, for a long time all the New Democracy bills, at least those relating to culture, regardless of size and gravity, have been in general coming at the last minute to minimize the reactions and to overcome the parliamentary procedure as uncircumcised as possible. And let's go to that. You come with two memorials, an oldest bill you called - umbrella, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, and a more specialized - theoretically at least - your design, which gives us better to understand what aims you have and how you see the cooperation between the two parties, Greece and the Arab Emirates in the field of culture and the economy of culture. Despite Monday's debate, some points remain unclear from you and we need to return to them. And I would like to explain that Article 3 of the new memorandum, which contains many different areas of cultural action, does it not make sense to clarify that the phrase 'broad signal promotion' relates exclusively to the possible cogeneration of any other? The list referred to in Article 2 shall literally include everything. Apart from that, you told us on Monday, Minister, that L.4761 is about cultural heritage, and here in the memoranda, which we are discussing today with the Emirates, the examples concern mainly younger art. That's not true. In both to ratify Memorandums with Emirates, the term 'cultural heritage' is expressly mentioned. It would have been enough to refer to one, but there's both of them. In addition, L.4761 does not refer to an exchange of periodic reports, but to loans. The memorials we are discussing today do the same. So, on the basis of the previous memorandum and Articles 3 and 4 of the new memorandum and of Law 4761, can we, for example, assume that it is possible to borrow antiquities for twenty-five plus twenty-five years in cooperation with the Ministry of Culture of Emirata and with partnership and private investor? You said, after all, that international conventions of this kind do not change national law, they follow. And we ask: is that not a problem? How and where will these loans be exposed to the private partnership of Article 4 of the Memorandum, which you have planned, should we not and should it worry you? We believe that in any case it is excessive and unacceptable to go abroad for twenty-five plus twenty-five years and to say so when the law was passed. But now the combination of this legislative provision with a third individual and with no other clarification or condition that it makes things worse. Apart from this, both memoranda have generalities, but in particular the second one, which is supposed to be more specific, is characterized by ambiguity, characterized by curiosity. The logic is simple to leave all possibilities open so that they can then be adjusted on your own footage. But cultural diplomacy cannot be that, especially if it has economic implications. Public cultural goods cannot serve the logic that the Ministry seems to adopt here, as well as advertising, mobility, and the creation of a donor, and the promotion of products, no objections, all good. But without framework and vision, they mean absolutely nothing. As we all see, Emirates make huge investments in cultural products. However, our own country's approach to these economic openings must be careful, thoroughly studied, concrete and with respect for cultural capital, ancient and modern Greece. So let us say that more organisation is needed, more preparation than this general memorandum, with which almost everything is allowed, everything is possible and all the important things remain to be decided afterward. Then, it is clear that we have another view of culture and of course of where the Ministry of Culture should put its special weight and influence. You keep talking and spoke the other day about the economy of culture, investment and so on. Minister, if the memoranda relates to modern culture or, in addition, to modern culture, where will you base your glorious economic plans on what cultural production? On the basis of your economic structure, you are not saying a word and there is the essence of the matter that we are discussing today and the problem that the whole world of culture has been discussing in our country for a long time. I want to go, 'cause I don't have much time. Due to the lack of support in the field by the Ministry and due to the largest lockdown imposed on a professional sector, many people in culture were forced either to change objects or to marginalisation or even to poverty. The refluxes with the measures and the alalum that have long since depressed the people of the area, who see no design and perspective for young people and their work. Apart from that, they see their sacrifices going lost, as they did not take advantage of the government, and that is why they did not provide the opportunity to deal with the pandemic. Workers in culture need and are entitled to greater support than they have received, and cannot be deprived of the seasonal allowance for reasons which they cannot influence. In conclusion - because I do not want to take much time and I also thank the President for his tolerance - to be clear about one thing: SYRIZA and the Progressive Alliance clearly and we are in favour of synergies, partnerships, support for people's assimilation and a better field for them than civilisation. However, we have seen the way you legislate, we have seen him in practice, we have seen him for two years, and we see how to change the character of an entire area and lead him to exaltation. We see your policies to alter the public character of cultural goods, to operate elitistly, selectively, with exceptions, with exclusions, with or without. Culture has always been a source of progress and social power for the country, and on your days it is in danger of being inactivated. It is not, therefore, that we do not trust the peoples, that we do not trust the partnerships, that we do not trust the peoples to come close and collide in their culture and collide in their economy. What we have great difficulty in trusting is you. We don't trust you. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-20-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mrs. Christidou. The reason is now the special speaker of the Movement of Change Mr. Dimitris Konstantopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-20-S1-commons.u12	Mr President, I would like to inform you that I will speak for all four sanctions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-20-S1-commons.u13	Yes, you will speak of all four, because all four have expressed reservations or objections.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-20-S1-commons.u14	Mr President, thank you for giving me the floor. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, four international conventions are being entered today in the field of culture and sport. These are conventions, which are part of the multi-annual effort of cultural cooperation with third countries, on the part of our country and, in fact, of extensions, to both education and culture, and to science and entrepreneurship. More specifically, the first Convention ratifys the Partnership Agreement between Greece and Poland in the fields of culture, sport, science, youth and, of course, the media. It is a contract signed in Warsaw on 8 July 2013. And it comes here, Minister - I address you because you represent the government today - after eight years. Of course, not only on your own responsibility, but also on the part of the earlier governments, concerning the SYRIZA - ANEL governments. Take your conclusions. In other words, 2013 was signed and ratified in 2021. It's too far away. Unfortunately, it is something we have seen repeatedly in the Ministry of Culture contracts. In other words, we have contracts signed, but they remain inactive, ladies and gentlemen. Just because of this inertia and the processes or the tolerance of the ministries involved are coming to be ratified too late and - I would say here - it results, in fact, in undermining the whole operation of our country in the development of international cooperation. More specifically, as far as the Convention between Greece and Poland is concerned. Greece and Poland therefore agree to develop cultural cooperation and each to promote the culture of the other country on its territory. For this reason, there is provision for the exchange of visits, artists, cultural entrepreneurs, as well as for the promotion of literary, music and theatrical works of the two countries. Cooperation is therefore also provided for in the field of artistic events and exhibitions, museums, international festivals, publications, libraries, and cinema with participation in corresponding festivals and film production. All the above, ladies and gentlemen, are aimed at better civil contact with the culture of the other country. Particularly important are the provisions of the Convention on the Education Area. In artistic education synergies will be promoted between the artistic schools in the two countries, and that is, if anything, very important. In the same way, educational and cultural activities are provided between the countries for children, young people, students and this is achieved through cooperation between the school units, university institutions in the two countries, with exchanges of students, synergies, conferences, training and practical training of teachers. Ladies and gentlemen, it should be stressed here that the contact of young people with another country is very important because they are in contact with another culture, and it is certain that such synergies open up horizons. In fact, I will focus on two important provisions, Minister, in Article 12, on mutual recognition of diplomas and diplomas awarded by the two countries. This is a provision, however, which we should see how it is aligned with European legislation from the signing of the Convention in 2013 to the present day. Also, Minister, I will stand by Article 15, with which Greece and Poland are committed to promoting the education of children of nationals of the other country and to creating the best conditions - I would say - for the education of these children in their own language. Contact with the mother tongue, ladies and gentlemen, is in contact with culture - culture and history - and we all consider them to be very important - and if anything else to be guaranteed. The protection of cultural heritage will develop synergies both for the maintenance of historical and artistic monuments and for the fight against illicit trade in cultural goods. In fact, I would remind you here that there is an explicit provision in Article 7 for the immediate return of the goods, which are found illegally exported from Greece and Poland, which is to be implemented in the framework of the UNESCO Convention on Cultural Heritage. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I note that the Cooperation Agreement with Poland contains provision for cooperation in the field of culture, the press, intellectual property and science. In particular, for the sciences, synergies between research and scientific academies will be developed, the exchange of know-how will take place through joint meetings, joint conferences, as well as joint research and development projects and all this within the framework established by the European Union for research and development. In conclusion, this is a contract that opens a wide range of cooperation between Greece and Poland and is expected to work positively for our country. That is why we are voting for this agreement and its ratification. Ladies and gentlemen, I proceed to the Convention with the United States of America, where the memorandum of understanding between Greece and the United States of America on the introduction of import restrictions into categories of archaeological and ethnic material of the Hellenic Republic is ratified. It is a contract signed on 22 September 2021, and I must say congratulations to the Minister, who brings it at least if anything else within two months of ratification. It is important to say positive ones as well. This Convention renews the Memorandum of Cooperation and Reconciliation of Greece and the United States in accordance with Law 4026/11. It is a memorandum of cooperation, ladies and gentlemen, which I would like to recall was the result of the initiative taken by the PASOK Government in 2010, and this is in application of Article 9 of the UNESCO Treaty to prevent and prevent the illegal importation, export and transfer of the ownership of cultural goods. It is a memorandum, which was extended by agreement in 2016 on the Government of SYRIZA - ANEL, but which was ratified very slowly in 2019 by Law 4634/2019. So, on the basis of this agreement, goods of our cultural heritage included in the list, issued by the US Government and found to have been exported from our country, without the Greek Government's special permission, are returning to Greece justly and directly. The aim is therefore to combat the illicit trafficking of archaeological and ecclesiastical material. Today, ladies and gentlemen, the U.S. Agreement on combating the illicit trafficking of our antiquities is entering a new era, as the memorandum of understanding we are discussing today extends to a number of archaeological, ecclesiastical and ethnic categories, up to 1830 in correspondence with the provisions of Law 3082/2002. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, with the Memorandum of Understanding, the two countries undertake to exchange information on the protection of cultural goods against smuggling and to take initiatives within the framework of the 1970 UNESCO Convention. I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that this is a contract with the measures to be taken to combat the illicit trafficking of cultural goods and to protect our cultural heritage. Ladies and gentlemen, we are all aware of the huge problem of smuggling excavators in our country, the pillaging of unknown archaeological sites, the illicit trafficking and trafficking of Greek antiquities in Greece and abroad. I would like to stress that in America, as in other major European markets, the movement of Greek archaeological objects has become huge. The expansion of controls here on the export of cultural goods up to 1830 reinforces the Greek public and, of course, prevents smuggling. Agreements, if anything, such as the one that is being ratified today, are of particular importance, as our country is being facilitated to identify and return the property of our cultural heritage, and that is why we vote 'yes' and we are positive about ratification. Ladies and gentlemen, I come to the two conventions with the United Arab Emirates. Initially, the Memorandum of Understanding for Cultural Cooperation between Greece and the United Arab Emirates signed in Athens on 6 May 2014 for the development of closer bilateral relations. I would remind the Minister that this was done in the PASOK government and Mr Vangelis Venizelos Minister. They therefore record their willingness to cooperate in organising artistic and cultural events and exchanging experts so that the two peoples come closer. The Memorandum, ladies and gentlemen, also provides for mutual participation with seminars, exhibitions, conferences and cooperation between competent authorities in the field of culture. In particular, Minister, it should be pointed out that initiatives by the two countries to protect intellectual property, to promote the study of the two languages and to encourage cultural tourism. In fact, the Convention provides for a Joint Committee composed of representatives of both countries, meeting in both countries. I would like to point out that in this case the Ministry of Culture has shown reduced reflexes, as the Memorandum of Understanding is to be ratified seven years after it was signed, two years of your government, Minister, five years of government SYRIZA - ANEL. Take your conclusions. After seven years, this agreement is being ratified. We have therefore lost, ladies and gentlemen, the opportunity all these years to develop closer cooperation with the United Arab Emirates, and therefore all the effort that our country had made at the time to sign the Memorandum of Understanding between the two countries has not found a response and that is the most important one. There was no response to this Memorandum of Cooperation and Co-responsibility which should already have been ratified. We are, of course, saying 'yes' to the ratification of this convention. I come to the second convention with the United Arab Emirates. It is the Memorandum of Understanding for Cooperation in the field of cultural and creative industries, cooperation in architecture, design, literature, fine arts, museums, cinema, cartoons, the protection of our cultural heritage and in any other area to be defined by both parties. The objectives set, ladies and gentlemen, through the Convention are cooperation in the field of cultural and creative industries, joint use and exchange of best practices and know-how, information and exchange of methods to encourage artists and professionals in museums, institutions and cultural institutions. For the implementation of this Agreement, provision is made for the exchange of information on education, training and skills development, the exchange of information on financing and investment models, on digital creativity and innovation policies. It is intended to promote business synergies that will be useful for both countries, support for co-productions between the two countries, exchange of expertise for the development and mobility of professionals in the field of culture. Cooperation with the United Arab Emirates will work positively for our country, both at the level of culture and creative industry and in the field of entrepreneurship, developing synergies, such as through the film co-productions that are planned and strengthening cultural artists and professionals. Ladies and gentlemen, to conclude, our country's international conventions in the field of culture impose and directly contribute to the development of cultural activity and to the protection of our cultural heritage. They strengthen our country's position and contribute to the development of international cooperation and, of course, friendly relations with the citizens of other countries. In conclusion, the Change Movement, PASOK, also votes for this convention positively, as we voted for the other three earlier conventions with the other countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-20-S1-commons.u15	And we thank Mr. Constantopoulos. Ladies and gentlemen, I will read a request to the President of the SYRIZA Parliament - a Progressive Alliance, Mr. Nasus Athanasios, on the subject: 'Legal leave: I would like to inform you that from 5 to 8 November 2021 I will be in Germany for family reasons. Please very much for your permission." Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-20-S1-commons.u16	The House therefore approved the requested permission. I call on the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Ioannis Delis, to place on the three of the four agreements mentioned above.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-20-S1-commons.u17	Thank you very much, Mr President. Today's four transnational agreements, despite the fact that they are being jointly introduced into the Parliament today by the Ministry of Culture, are not similar or of course have the same content or objectives. The two of these agreements concern the cultural cooperation of our country with Poland and the United Arab Emirates. These are formal agreements - the framework for cultural cooperation between our country and the other two countries in this regard. In the case of Poland, the agreement is also being extended to the fields of science and education. Although these agreements by their nature generally provide for the setting-up of a joint or joint committee of both countries which will also undertake to define joint actions in all cultural fields. I think it's the opposition position of the JRC. It is neither petty nor does the KIC opposition to the opposition. The opposition of the JRC is always made by positions of principle stable in the defence of people's interests and, hence, we have a positive attitude to such bilateral agreements that ultimately promote cooperation between countries and peoples in the field of culture. We say this despite the fact that it remains asking whether, in the final practical way, all these fine declarations of opinion on the approach of peoples and the cultivation and consolidation of their friendships are reflected in the final practical outcome, or whether it is simply to benefit some large businesses in many ways. These fears are not insurmountable, since according to Article 2 of the Agreement with Poland it also concerns entrepreneurs active in the field of culture. Or, as referred to in Article 5: ‘The Parties shall promote cooperation between organisations, associations and institutions implementing educational and cultural programmes aimed at children and new institutions’. In this wording, all private institutions of education and culture in the capital, at least the most important of their representatives, are included. You know, they are all the foundations of the shipowners and industrialists who have taken on contraction and with the unjustified entire cultural sectors in our country, at the same time opening the door to Greek education. All of these, you know, have not suddenly started to flea from the passion of their cultural offering to the people. ideological and entrepreneurial benefits expect. So these two cultural agreements - framework agreements with Poland and the United Arab Emirates, however, have another common feature. Their ratification of the parliament has been pending for years, is being delayed, and so it is still about eight years inactive. The Agreement with Poland has been pending since 2013 and the United Arab Emirates Agreement has been pending since 2014. Obviously, for the governments that have passed since - and if I'm not mistaken over four years it was SYRIZA and so much about New Democracy - such agreements that were beneficial to the people were not in their priorities, so they were left in the fridge, degrading them in practice. Well that these agreements had, that is, the provision of an indefinite duration, otherwise they would have already been cancelled. To conclude, and with the reservations we have just mentioned about the distance between the declarations of these agreements and any practical result they bring, we will vote in favour of both these cultural agreements. But when bishops enter culture, then parliamentary things change. Governments do not lose their time at all at all and quickly - quickly these deals with business in culture bring them here to the House. That is precisely what is being done with the agreement on cooperation between Greece and the United Arab Emirates in the field of cultural and creative industries - it says - and we hope that, Minister, it will not overshadow or undermine the previous cultural agreement with the United Arab Emirates. The speed, of course, is explained, since this agreement is not about the people, but about the cooperation between the business groups of the two countries. This is an agreement which is trying to do not, of course, to make use of culture to consolidate the friendship between the two peoples through common cultural actions such as the previous one, but clearly that the cultural industries of the two countries will benefit from this cooperation. Articles 1 and 3 of this Convention are clearly on this issue and leave no room for doubt. With a terminology that refers to trade, rather than to a cultural agreement on 'finance and investment models', 'business synergies' and 'cogeneration programmes', all of which, just now, the SYRIZA rapporteur has found them well, 'a joy' is not the problem - the aim of this agreement on the business of cultural monopolies has proved to be a great deal. We have a completely different concept of culture and the right of every citizen to access his own culture, first and foremost, as well as the culture of the other countries, of the other peoples. We regard as a social need for entertainment, the need for understanding the objective reality through the art in which this reality is reflected, and indeed with such charm, the need for knowledge and knowledge of the cultural background of other peoples, the development of solidarity between the peoples. This agreement, however, does not even cover any of these needs as a side action. Therefore, since this is not an agreement that focuses on the needs of the two peoples, but on the profits of the monopolies that are trying in the field of culture, we have no choice but to vote against this agreement. In this respect, now, with the latest contract between Greece and the United States, which was recently signed, I will say: it is an additional contract of an earlier agreement ratified by Law 4026/2011 and extended by Law 4634/2019 two years ago, and it provides for restrictions on the import into the United States of Greek archaeological and ethnic materials. In other words, it is about trade in archipelago, so that we can get to grips with each other. In the world of archaeology - and not only - it has been known for a long time that in the United States of America trade in antiquities and in general cultural goods is highly developed and has, indeed, a huge economic content. This shows, of course, the scale of the problem that we have to face - if we accept it - this agreement. But right next to this legitimate trade of antiquities is also developing illegal trade and, indeed, with far greater turbulence. Where do these two trade activities, legal and illegal, end up now? Where else? In the large auction houses, where we hear about astronomical amounts sometimes. Why are we talking about all this? But in order to be fully aware of the cause of the problem of archaocapilia, a reason, of course, which is not only legitimate or illegal, does not matter - and, indeed, extremely expensive - the archaeological treasures of all kinds. So as we voted against the original 2011 contract and its extension in 2019, we will vote against today for three very specific reasons. First - first - because the restriction on the import into the United States of archaeological and Byzantine materials was based - and it will continue to be based - on a list which the United States itself has the right to adopt arbitraryly and without specific criteria, even though they are - as the Minister said earlier - with the cooperation of the Greek Ministry of Culture. However, the United States will only have the decisive role here. We understand that. The only criteria set for drawing up this list are time limits, but they usually allow for the unlimited introduction of out-of-date material limits rather than protecting the material within these limits. And like this, unrestricted introduction continues with some obstacles. At the same time, this dramatic deforestation of the services of the Ministry of Culture is also maintained in archaeological guards and archaeologists, who were responsible for all the previous governments, at a time when we have a remarkable expansion of the presence of foreign archaeological missions in our country. And finally, through today's convention with the United States, the commercialisation of our cultural heritage is still being supported. However, there is another reason: on the basis of what is stated in the rapporteur's report, but also in the financial communications that precede these conventions and agreements, it is revealed that this is a far-reaching contract. I talked to the committee about a more colonial type - and I will insist on this designation - a contract with which Greece - pay attention! - it is obliged to prove that it is taking action against illegal export, but the United States - the other part - is not obliged to submit any information at all to comply with the agreement. In short, this convention does not oblige the United States to give Greece an account of what they did, what they intend to do and what they intend to do about trade in their country. What about the trade of whose? The archaeological treasures of our country. Let us see, if you will, here - and let me close with that, Mr President - the 2011 original contract for the return of antiquities to our country by the USA, to judge? This report is very poor. Fifteen silver coins have been returned and a portion of a carnivorous. That's all! This is therefore the notorious efficiency of this contract over the last decade. We have already said of both koruna stolen in 1990 from the Corinth Museum, but they were repatriated, as far as I remember, in 2010, before the signing of the agreement, so we will not consider it the result of that convention. They did well and they came back. That's the way it has to be.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-20-S1-commons.u18	No. Corinth's never been returned.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-20-S1-commons.u19	They didn't make it. Even better. Therefore, to close, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance, this Convention does not change or improve the 2011 Convention or its extension. And on this basis, we are voting against this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-20-S1-commons.u20	And we thank Mr. Delis. The reason is the special speaker of the Greek Solution, Mrs Sophia - Haido Asmakopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-20-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the cooperation agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Poland in the areas of culture, education, science, sport, youth and the media, as we have stressed and during the committee, is most likely to remain on paper. Because the benefits that our country could obtain from such an agreement are not apparent. The duration of the present is indefinite. With a country which has even agreed to buy aircraft and drones from Turkey. And we can't overlook that. It is also characteristic that he legitimised the expulsion of immigrants on its borders and approved the construction of a wall to prevent immigrants from crossing the border from Belarus. More seems to be toward us with such practices, which will of course be further burdened by our country than by us. We have stressed and stressed the risk of Article 5 of the Agreement on cooperation between the two States' organisations and institutions in the preparation of cultural and educational programmes for the new generation. Naturally, it is in cooperation with the respective NGOs of the two countries on the relevant issues. Such a possibility clearly finds us opposing. Many questions are also raised in Article 8 which speaks of cooperation between the state archives of the two countries. What state records are we talking about? Why do you leave it so vague? It also states that States undertake to promote the partner's cultural and linguistic institutions. How long does it take for our country to make such a commitment? The Greek culture is known all over the world. Greece for the whole world is the cradle of culture as its first forms were born and developed. That is why we must constantly aim to ensure that neither our culture nor our language is affected. Regarding the second Closure of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the United States of America regarding the imposition of import restrictions on categories of archaeological and ethnological material of the Hellenic Republic, we have asked and asked for clarification in respect of Article 1 on how and in which cases the Greek Government will grant permission to export archaeological material. Because that's very critical. The obligations of both governments shall be subject, inter alia, to the availability of relevant economic resources as referred to in the Memorandum in question. Is that practically what it means? How much can it cost us? Will Greece respond as we have been aggravated by the constant crises? It is worth mentioning once again the very serious issue of facilitating accessibility in our archaeological sites, both in terms of access to everything that has to do with MEDAs. The possibility of investigating the availability of disabled people in Greece in order to implement the highest importance for a person in contact with cultural goods is very important. The knowledge that visitors can get from these sites will make a decisive contribution to their cultural integration, and that cannot be denied. In particular, people with a visual problem should be included more actively than cultural sites in the design of their actions and thus not excluded from the enjoyment of the property of cultural heritage and from their general participation in social life. We cannot refer to local culture, which can be an important lever in the effort to promote and promote our country, which is an important attraction as it is considered one of the most important cultural, social, spiritual and geographical centers of the earth. Now about the agreements with the United Arab Emirates, we have some reservations about the establishment of the Joint Committee, because we want you to clarify to us who can be its members. We in the Greek Solution believe that the formation of our culture is based on concepts such as democracy, freedom, the measure. Our cultural heritage, apart from admiring it, should not simply leave it to the mercy of the weather and the conditions. Finally, give incentives, opportunities and the opportunity to return back to our country, to the country of their hearts, to young people - about six hundred thousand - who left in the years of the memoranda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-20-S1-commons.u22	And we thank Mrs Asimakopoulou and the economy of time. I now call on Mr Gregoriadis to refer to issues outside the contract with Poland with which Mera25 agrees. That's the way it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-20-S1-commons.u23	Don't worry, Mr. President. Thank you very much for giving me the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, my dear Minister, as you all see, I am wearing today a mask with the rainbow, which is a symbol of the LGBTKI community, in a symbol of the Greek Parliament since the trial for the assassination of the activist and defender of the rights of LGBTK of people Zak Kostopoulos begins. I would remind you, Mr President, that for his extremely brutal and witnessing murder, which took place at noon in the most central part of our capital, in Omonia, and in the face of dozens of passers, two businessmen and four policemen are being accused today. We hope that Greek justice will be left completely free without government intervention to do its job. I shall now proceed, Mr President, to the conventions. I therefore remove the Convention with Poland because you do not want me to refer to it and go to the second Convention, which is the Clearance of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the United States of America concerning the imposition of import restrictions on archeological and ethnological categories of the Hellenic Republic. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, this convention is, as you know, a renewal and extension of the memorandum of understanding on restrictions on the import of archaeological, ethnological and ecclesiastical material. This agreement was signed in 2011 for ten years and now ended while it was already based on earlier agreements and, of course, on the relevant UNESCO international treaty, which was signed in 1970. Its extension was necessary to continue under a system of regulation. The extension certainly concerns ethnic ecclesiastical objects from early Christian times until 1830. Mr President, it is a matter of restrictions imposed by the United States Government on imports of such goods and it is not about something that the Greek state should do. Mr President, we are, however, standing in Article 2(5), where other opposition parties have stood, for the long-term lending of these cultural materials. We have asked for clarification from the Minister in the committee. But, Madam Minister, after what you have given us, the landscape - in our opinion - continues to remain blurred. That is why, in order not to find our early Christian or Byzantine ancient loan and with our own participation - we, I mean, Mera25 - without, of course, any such will on our part, say'residents'. Consecration of the Memorandum of Understanding of Cultural Cooperation between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the United Arab Emirates. This is, of course, a general and non-binding agreement, which was signed seven years ago. Given the poor situation in which human rights are found in that country, we believe that such agreements only work as an alibi for international acceptance and legitimacy in the most oppressive, fascist, almost - one would say - the status of the United Arab Emirates, a country where freedom of speech and speech is extremely limited, and I would remind you that there are now, up to now, public flogging of 'crime' - in in infinite introductory terms, of course, crimes - such as adultery, prenative sex and alcohol consumption, that is, things that are completely legal in our country. Does it make sense to what we have, Mr President, to work with such a country? We are voting against, constantly refusing to vote for the oppressed United Arab Emirates regime. Fourth ratification. The Clearance of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the United Arab Emirates, on cooperation in the field of cultural and creative industries. This is where things begin to divert, Mr President. I'll explain why. It is a similar content agreement, specializing in the cultural and creative industries. That is why I say that things are beginning to get diverted, because the question arises as to whether there is a legitimate policy of privileged cooperation in this area, namely, in the field of culture, with non-democratic regimes, as I said before, all the countries of the Gulf. Cultural politics and diplomacy should, in the opinion of Mera25, be dictated by the principles of democratic access to cultural activities and media, as well as by the defence of the principles of an open and pluralist society without any exclusion based on sex, ethnicity, age, sexual desires and so on. We talked before about the LGBTQ community and everything else. Of course, Mr President, we are voting against both agreements with the United Arab Emirates. We shall vote against them both with our hands. Before I left - you saw that I was extremely short and did not exceed my time - I have only one question for my dear SYRIZA for the agreement with America. I have listened with love to my dear colleague - whom I have worked with in the past - and to a friend, Mr Skourico. But what does he do? He's bound by the Civic Opposition, which he serves, to breathe the menstruations against this agreement. She's completely overthrown her. He explained to us all clearly here why we should not vote and at the end I became one, because he said that we "vote yes". I understand - and it is not a personal attack at all - that when your party says 'yes', you must say 'yes', but at least before, it is good not to explain why you should say 'no'. It's no good! Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-20-S1-commons.u24	I too thank you very much for the time economy. And I will now give the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative - the Progressive Alliance, Mr Sia Anagnastopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-20-S1-commons.u25	After the two parliamentary representatives are closed?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-20-S1-commons.u26	Then Mrs Arabadzis has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-20-S1-commons.u27	Is he going to lead?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-20-S1-commons.u28	No, you'll be the one to lead.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-20-S1-commons.u29	It's not the Minister here.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-20-S1-commons.u30	The Minister will be here.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-20-S1-commons.u31	Because I have five to seven minutes. If the Minister isn't here... Mrs. Arabaji knows about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-20-S1-commons.u32	No, look. The Minister's coming. I already see her enter the Chamber. You can start. He's already listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-20-S1-commons.u33	The cultural agreements are very important because they are the bridge between the peoples and the countries which share or have to share the same values or will tend to share the same values at some point. We have four sanctions here, and the first concerns Poland. I would also like to say - and we have said so in committee - that: we know very well what is happening these days, this time with Poland. We belong to the same European family, as the New Democracy is encouraging to say that we are a member of the European family. "I belong to the same family" means, first and foremost, that I share the same values, that it is self-evident. I understand with other countries, but it must be self-evident here. And if all this conflict is taking place in the European Union right now, it is that the Polish government, the extreme right-wing nationalist government, does not share the same values. Yesterday there was a huge debate in the European Parliament and we are coming today, the Greek Parliament voting for a ratification with a government that does not share these European values, for which - I insist - are the values of the European family? Women's rights are being affected, the rights of the LGBTK community are being affected, because today is also a dedicated day, LGBTK ideology-free zone. The only family who supported the Prime Minister of Poland yesterday in the European Union was the extreme right. And I ask: after the support of Mr Mitsotakis to Mr Kurts, who resigned on grounds of freedom of the press, etc., then he comes and does what? Will we be the only government that supports the Polish government in our national Parliament? The Polish people are a friend of the people, of course we have cultural contacts, we evaluate and not only evaluate, we respect Poland's culture, but it was necessary these days to bring this ratification? What for? And for the sake of support for the Polish people, the battles which women give to the streets every day, the battles which the LGBTK community is fighting for, the battles which all democrats in Poland are fighting for, the battles which all political families give to the European Parliament - and for these reasons alone - we should keep this agreement behind. I ask you, Minister, to postpone its vote. We must not do this in the Greek Parliament. Otherwise, we will say 'the present', because of course we are not against the Polish people, of course we want to have cultural contacts, but we do not want such an agreement to be voted on with this government today. New Democracy cannot put Greece in the Visegrad countries, while we have a choice to go a few days, a period after this agreement. Secondly, as far as the United States is concerned, I understand the objections made by some colleagues. If they were different articles, we would of course vote against Article 2, our rapporteur said so. You are insisting on certain things that - they do not protect, I would say better - the cultural heritage of this country. It cannot be protected with these famous long-term exports. You are always putting Parliament in a difficult position. I talked about Poland. Our position is always that cultural values must unite or tend to unite. With the United Arab Emirates - which I share many of what Mr Gregorydis said - and of course countries where women's position is bad, I would like to say that especially this agreement on the creative economy, which is literally in the air, is more commercial than a cultural agreement. See her again. I want to finish with one thing. Madam Minister, sometimes you have become extremely challenging, which you do not need, especially for a Minister of Culture. You went out yesterday and triumphantly said that nothing happened in the Acropolis and it was not the first time that it was flooded. We didn't use the Acropolis as you did, because the world was diagnosed with this bad weather we had, which was not extreme weather. But I have to show you videos here, so you don't go out and keep saying make news. I have to show you videos from the Acropolis, from construction site houses where it became crazy. And tools were flooded and all that was destroyed. I'm showing it to you here in a video. Don't go out all the time with make news, otherwise we can't get in touch anymore. Take Poland's memorandum of cooperation back, come at some other time. Don't make Greece a Visegrad country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-20-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mrs. Anagnostopoulou. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Fotini Arabaji, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-20-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today Parliament is called upon to ratify four memoranda of cooperation of cultural interest aimed at strengthening the bilateral relations between the two countries through cooperation in the field of culture, arts, the cultural and cinematographic industry, combating the phenomenon of smuggling excavations and the theft of mobile relics from archaeological sites and monuments. One would expect these bills, these international conventions to find the political forces united. On the contrary, the Civic Opposition, SYRIZA, both in the debate on the conventions in committees and today in the House, is increasingly looking for points, nosings of disagreement, of course, confusing any timeliness of other kinds of issues with these agreements. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, the contract with Poland signed in 2013 and lodged in the House in 2014, you did not ratify it. And, of course, because you had the pain in the very large budget of the agreement at the time, you had all the power - four and a half years - to amend it on the better terms for you, with less budget or whatever you wanted, in any case, to amend and bring it to the House after four and a half years that you have been ruling. You have not revised it, of course, and today you are coming and saying that it is a last minute. First of all, of course, we must say that the letter and the spirit of the Rules of Procedure have been fully respected, in that forty-eight hours before the debate on committees - and more than forty-eight hours - the relevant Convention, the memorandum on the subject and, of course, the necessary forty-eight hours were tabled by the committee in plenary. I'm sure it makes me wonder how much time SYRIZA wants to consume when he has an agreement in his hands. Since 2014, you have known her since you took over. Today is 2021. How long do you need to read a memorandum of cooperation of cultural interest? As far as the Memorandum is concerned, you are talking about a poor legacy, forgetting that your government has made a huge effort to extend the time of the memorandum - back in 1830, in other words, in terms of protecting these relics - which the specific political leadership of the Ministry of Culture has achieved. So you failed miserably. You did not adjust the dates where you are currently coming and oppositioning. And that is what the current government, the current Minister, Mrs Lina Mendoni, has achieved. And you come back and express disagreements. As far as your so-called long-term lending complaints are concerned, the Minister told you very well in committee. These have been legislative texts since 2002. Have you not made any intervention again? Are you looking - I repeat - for points of order in order to do what, ladies and gentlemen? Your well-known miserable and sterile opposition to 'not all'. You have adopted this policy, unfortunately. What seemed to me to be Mr Tsipras' position yesterday, which is probably in contradiction with what you are finally doing as an Opposition. So in his interview yesterday, the Chief of Officer's "ALHPA" refused such a tactic, that is to say you're doing "no to everything", bringing as an example his proposal for the Minister of Public Health. In other words, Mr Tsipras says that he denies 'not everything' only when the proposals happen to be yours. When the proposals concern other parties, as you are simply voting against them. And to return to today's debate, with the well-known ambiguity and bilingualism you are of course accusing, of course, without fundamental arguments, that the memorials are general, they have problematic elements. No one, of course, is surprised that your attitude to the country's position with regard to its international cooperation and agreements, because, after all, you yourself are SYRIZA, who, as a government, said that you were promoting defence cooperation with France and the market for freshmen, but did not let you continue with the 'bad' Germans. As a Precious Opposition, you called on the Prime Minister to make progress in defence cooperation with France and buy freshmen and when the time came for the agreement, you voted against it, of course, with backs and branches, calling for changes that you did not commit to implementing if and when you become a government. This, ladies and gentlemen, is not an opposition. This is called miserable and sterile opposition. That your attitude to the issue of the top deal with France is, of course, at odds with the majority of the Greek people, perhaps - perhaps - at this very very last moment should be of concern to you, since they have obviously also come to your attention and the relevant polls. Let me remind you, then, that in a previous poll on the question of the Greek-French Defence Agreement, 64% sees it positively. So I imagine, after your leader's position yesterday at ALPHA, that you do not question her and the other polls, since Mr. Tsipras said yesterday that he did not open a war with polling companies. You understood, even at the very last moment, obviously the damage you would cause to your party with the text of the examination you have tabled and now you are going back, setting the target only one company, as you say. Another mistake, which is unspeakable and malicious, is trying to correct. You want to be a power party, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, but the choices you make are minority, small party choices. And if you think that this is what the parliamentary spokesman of the Party of Confederalism says, read some of yours, Mr. Giorgos Likopoulou, a well-known journalist and strong supporter of Alexis Tsipras, who just wrote that SYRIZA is the old 3% that he thinks has become big, because the former PASOK voters followed Mr. Tsipras. "SYRIZA is a shell with no content," writes your supporter and with the policies and behaviours you follow you are entitled to every day. I don't say that, Mr. Liikopoulou says so. As for what Mrs Sia Anagnostopoulou said very clearly about the issues of the support of the LGBTK community, I would like to refer you to: Kyriakos Mitsotakis: "We support the diversity and equality of LGBTKI." The Prime Minister co-signed with fifteen other European leaders a letter to Ursula von der Lyen, Charles Michelle and Antonio Guterres. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-20-S1-commons.u36	And we thank Mrs. Arabaji. In order to complete the process of ratifying the four Memorandums of Understanding, the Minister of Culture and Sport has the floor, Mrs Mendoni. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-20-S1-commons.u37	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, before entering my position, in my speech on the four conventions, I would just like to say that we are not, I am not, challenging you, Mrs. Anagnostopoulou, with your make news, because the head of the Acropolis Monuments Service and the chief of the Athens Antiquities Department yesterday confirmed that there were no floods in the Acropolis, that the system of the anti-military works was fully operational. And I would not like to bring to Parliament the videos that I have on my own mobile, because I think that is how we underestimate the House, to show you how the systems worked, nor, of course, the video from the flood in 2018 in the north climate when short-lived events took place. We shall now proceed to our debate. Since the discussion of these memorandums of understanding was carried out in detail in the Committee on Formatic Affairs and in order not to take too much time, I will confine myself to a final summary of the memoranda and to answers to questions raised by the Opposition, so that there is no suspicion of ambiguity about the agreements we are asking to cancel. In relation to Poland. The Agreement with Poland was signed in Warsaw in July 2013. It has not been validated, it has not been undone, it has been in drawers for four and a half years of SYRIZA rule. In the context of bilateral relations between the two countries, the agreement to be ratified aims to strengthen their cooperation in all areas of education, culture, sport and the media. It is specifically intended to encourage the partnership of the two countries in the field of the protection and promotion of cultural heritage, as well as closer cooperation in the field of contemporary culture and to contribute to understanding the specific characteristics of the culture of the two peoples. Furthermore, the signing of the Agreement expresses the desire of both Parties to intensify their cooperation in the field of education, science, research, youth, lifelong learning, in the context of contemporary cultural, social and technological data. In relation to Mrs Vetta's 'victims' and reactions, it is clear that you cannot articulate a specific opposition and a substantive reason, which is why you are looking back at the time that Abraham gave birth to Isaac. As for your style and language, I won't follow it, my bourgeois education won't allow me. So in relation to what you said, you come and renounce me because the first Greek-Polish educational cooperation agreement was signed in 1977 and it was confirmed, especially in the fields of science and technology, in 1999. And you come to that and tell me that, forty-four years after the first and twenty-two years after the second, it should not be reviewed, and indeed with an extremely bizarre claim, that this is why another type of contract is called into question. But this is a contract which also has a clear technical content. But obviously this revision is required from the rapid developments in society, in technology, in the sciences that have brought great differentiations. And to our needs and values and goals. As for what you said about the Archaeological Polish Institute, I can tell you that the essential and official functioning of the Institute is inaugurated on 26 October of this year, in the presence of the Polish State Secretary for Foreign Affairs and, if I am not mistaken, you have received an invitation. We must now go to the question of the ratification of the Greek Government's Memorandum of Understanding with the Government of the United States of America. On 22-9-2021, we signed the revision of the memorandum, in fact signed a new memorandum. The first signed in 2011, had a five-year duration. It was renewed in 2016 through the planned diplomatic path, through the exchange of financial communications, and was finally ratified by us in October 2019. The Memorandum is not exactly the same, because here we have a substantial extension from the 15th century to the 1830 to ensure that national legislation is compatible with this Memorandum of Understanding. This requirement, to reach 1830, was a constant requirement of the Greek side, which you tried to achieve during your own governance, but you failed miserably. The aim of the memorandum is therefore to protect cultural goods which are smuggling or stealing and illegal export from Greece to the United States, by imposing restrictions on the import of cultural goods of Greek origin into the USA by the US customs authorities. At the same time, it intends to strengthen the prevention and prevention of smuggling and pillaging of unknown archaeological sites, as well as thefts from monuments or sites in Greece. The extension of the scope of application to include in its protective provisions specific categories of ecclesiastical and ethnic objects that date back to 1830 and are protected by our national legislation, as I said before, was a consistent request and that is why the cultural objects that fall under these categories are particularly at risk of illegal trafficking. It is indicative that about 3/4 of all stolen cultural goods from Greece over the last five years are objects of the post-Byzantine period, mainly religious images, but also other functional objects, which are related to the worship and performance of sacred mysteries, while their loss directly affects the religious feeling. The United States, like some European countries, are important markets for the illegally moved cultural goods of Greece. This is demonstrated by the large number of auctions with Greek cultural objects. The memorandum to be ratified was signed under Article 9 of the 1970 UNESCO Convention and - I repeat, because it is very important - it extends until 1830. The Memorandum of Understanding is a reference to our country's efforts to protect its cultural heritage. Its implementation reflects the two States' commitment to cooperate to prevent the illicit trafficking of cultural goods and encourages the development of cultural dialogue. Its provisions contribute substantially to preventing the illicit trafficking of cultural goods in the United States. At the same time, the restrictions on imports of Greek cultural goods in the above categories also contribute positively to combating the phenomenon of smuggling excavations and the theft of mobile monuments from archaeological sites, monuments or temples, as they prevent such acts from being committed. The implementation of the memorandum has so far led to the identification and repatriation of a sufficient number of antiquities which had been unlawfully moved. At the same time, it has enabled the competent authorities of the two countries to cooperate closely and to establish relationships of confidence. The implementation of this Memorandum will hopefully produce even better results. Now, on the issues raised by the Opposition on the Memorandum, the essential consideration raised by the Civic Opposition is the alleged opposition to Article 2(5) of the Memorandum to the provision of national law, in particular Article 48(13) of Law 4761/2020. So let's go to see if there's any opposition and what that opposition is all about. The national provision provided for the possibility of the competent body of the Ministry of Culture and Sport, issued after the Council's opinion, allowing the long-term lending of cultural goods for the purpose of the projection of the country's cultural heritage and provided that adequate guarantees are provided for their safe transport, exhibition and return. Now let's go see what the Memorandum provides for in Article 2(5), where the contrast with national law is allegedly identified. Each government makes its best efforts to encourage the further exchange of archaeological and ethnological materials for cultural, educational and scientific purposes, including long-term lending of such material to promote broad public appreciation and access to Greece's rich cultural heritage. Where is the contradiction, ladies and gentlemen, of the Officerial Representation? The national provision stipulates that long-term borrowing is done under specific conditions and purposes, and the memorandum stipulates that lending of cultural goods is part of the regular cultural exchanges which the two countries encourage. Does the Memorandum provide for less or more loan years? Oh, no. Does it change the conditions required by the national provision to allow borrowing? Of course not. So where is the contradiction? There is only in the sterile opposition perspective and nowhere else. And one more thing: It was said by the rapporteur of the Major Opposition that the term "long-term borrowing" was first introduced in this Memorandum of Understanding and that it did not exist in the two previous ones, i.e. 2011 and 2016.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-20-S1-commons.u38	You didn't listen well, I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-20-S1-commons.u39	You told the committee, it's registered. If you read a little more carefully, you would see that the same wording about long-term borrowing is mentioned in Article 11(7)a of the 2011 Memorandum, which you as government renewed in 2016 and I will submit both FEKs in the Minutes of the Parliament, so we know when and who serves in a breakthrough make news. [[At this point, the Minister for Culture and Sport, Mr Styliani Mendoni, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We are now going to what has been said about finances, and this answer also concerns Mrs Christidou's comment on the UN memorandum on the Arab Emirates. You said and strive to see whether the memorandum to be ratified by this provision to encourage borrowing is a burden on the state budget. When a country lends cultural goods to a museum in another country, it is surely costly that they are transported, secured, exposed and returned to the country of origin. Who will charge these costs is normally part of the agreement that will be signed between the country which borrows and the country that borrows ad hoc on a case-by-case basis, unless there is a transnational contract between the two countries or specifically regulates it by national law. In Greece, we do not have a legislative framework in place, and it is in the very near future for us to regulate this issue as well. It'll be soon before the end of the year. However, it is clear that the budgetary cost of an exchange results from the fact itself, that is, the fact of the borrowing that has always existed in our legislation and is not caused by the memorandum that encourages lending as a cultural tactic. And when the report by the General Accounting Office of the State mentions any expense from the possibility of exchanging cultural material, it is possible - and it is already happening in Greece - that Greece should lend a movable monument and on the basis of the agreement to be drawn up, that it should be charged with the related costs of transport, depending on the laws of the country to which it will lend it and the relevant legislation. In any case, however, all these issues are dealt with by ad hoc and by individual agreements. This is the constant tactic followed by at least the last fifty years. As regards the Memorandum on Cultural Cooperation between the Greek Government and the Government of the United Arab Emirates, the draft law submitted is intended to ratify the Memorandum signed in May 2014. Also, for four years there was no interest in his ratification. In the context of bilateral relations between the two states, this memorandum of understanding aims, on the one hand, to strengthen friendly relations between Greece and the Arab Emirates through cooperation in the field of culture and arts, on the other hand, to promote cultural dialogue to strengthen the mutual relations between the two States. The implementation of the Memorandum of Understanding after its ratification will contribute to a better understanding of the specific characteristics of the culture of the two peoples and will contribute to the development of transnational cultural cooperation which will result in the dissemination of culture among the citizens of the States Parties and the taking of development initiatives on culture issues. This memorandum opens a new page in the relations between Greece and the United Arab Emirates and establishes a very important cooperation in the field of culture. Our initiative to adopt the current arrangements forms part of our overall planning to support, promote and promote all forms of cultural action aimed at exploiting the country's entire cultural stock and encouraging the production of all kinds of culture. In the context of our debate and in the second and fourth memorandum on cooperation between the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the United Arab Emirates on cooperation in the field of cultural and creative industries, a memorandum seeks to cooperate in the field of cultural and creative industries through the promotion of friendship and cooperation, as well as to strengthen mutual knowledge and understanding of the culture of the two countries. In particular, the objective is to establish cooperation between the two countries in the field of cultural and creative industry, to facilitate, support and joint improvement of best practices for joint initiatives in the field of cultural and creative industries. The Memorandum to be ratified consists of ten articles, and expressly set out as its main objectives the establishment of cooperation, initiatives and exchange of best practices and know-how in the field of cultural and creative industries. Because there has been a lot of talk about commercialisation and business in the cultural and creative industries, I would like to do a little parentheses here. In particular, I will mention - and I will deliberately not go to a newer international literature, but I am staying in the text of UNESCO, in a large book by UNESCO in December 2015 - three elements. Revenues from the cultural and creative industries, cinema, music, design, photography, art halls, sales museums, exceed the corresponding telecommunications. This is what UNESCO, the most international organization, says. The cultural and creative industries employ more human potential compared to the automotive sector in Europe, Japan and the United States. In 2013 - I am referring to 2013, because the study by UNESCO is 2015 - the creative content has contributed $200 billion in digital sales, strengthening the sales of digital devices and increasing the demand for telecommunications services. That is why, in 2021, we cannot ignore the economy of culture which is a separate chapter. In view of the above, the objectives and content of the four Memorandums, which I think we have developed extensively, I call for the draft law of the Ministry of Culture as a whole to be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-20-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, too, Mrs. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is adjourned on the principle of uniformity, the articles and all the draft laws of the Ministry of Culture and Sport and their vote will be taken separately. We'll start with the deal with Poland. We move on to vote on a single motion for a resolution on the principle, articles and all of the draft law: 'Undertaking of the Cooperation Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Poland in the fields of culture, education, science, sport, youth and the media'. At this point, I would like to make it clear that only the rapporteurs and the special speakers are now voting. In the next phase we will have the roll-call vote on the amendment by the Ministry of Environment and Energy. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-20-S1-commons.u41	Ladies and gentlemen, since you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-20-S1-commons.u42	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-20-S1-commons.u43	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: ‘Preparation of the Cooperation Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Poland in the fields of culture, education, science, sport, youth and the media’ was accepted by a majority of the unitary majority of articles and all of them and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-20-S1-commons.u44	We proceed to vote on a single motion for a resolution on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: "Following the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the United States of America on the imposition of import restrictions on archaeological and ethnological categories of the Hellenic Republic". I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-20-S1-commons.u45	Ladies and gentlemen, since you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-20-S1-commons.u46	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-20-S1-commons.u47	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: ‘Statement of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the United States of America concerning the imposition of import restrictions on archeological and ethnoological categories of the Hellenic Republic’ was accepted by a majority of uniform at the outset of Articles and all and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-20-S1-commons.u48	We move on to vote on a single motion for a resolution on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: "Following the Memorandum of Understanding of Cultural Cooperation between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the United Arab Emirates". I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-20-S1-commons.u49	Ladies and gentlemen, since you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-20-S1-commons.u50	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-20-S1-commons.u51	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: ‘Statement of the Memorandum of Understanding of Cultural Cooperation between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the United Arab Emirates’ was accepted by a majority of uniform in principle, Articles and all of which is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-20-S1-commons.u52	We conclude with a single vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: "Following the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the United Arab Emirates on cooperation in the field of cultural and creative industries". I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-20-S1-commons.u53	Ladies and gentlemen, since you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-20-S1-commons.u54	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-20-S1-commons.u55	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: ‘Statement of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the United Arab Emirates on cooperation in the field of cultural and creative industries’ was accepted by a majority of uniform in principle, Articles and all of which are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-20-S1-commons.u56	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-20-S1-commons.u57	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, at this point we will proceed to the conclusion of the resolution of the draft law of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy ‘Integration of Directive (EU) 2018/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December ‘Amendment to Directive 2012/27/EU on energy efficiency’, an adaptation to Regulation 2018/1999/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2018 on the governance of the Energy Union and the Climate Action and on Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2019/826/EU of 4 March 2019 on the amendment of Annexes VIII and IX to Directive 2012/27/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on the content of the comprehensive assessments of the potential for efficient heating and cooling’ and related energy efficiency arrangements in the building sector, as well as on the strengthening of the Renewable Energy and Competition Sources in the electricity market. The above draft has been submitted for a roll-call vote on the Ministerial Amendment No 1103 and for a special item 94 by Members of the Parliamentary Group of the Communist Party of Greece, the text of which reads as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-20-S1-commons.u58	I will not read out the list of signatories, because due to the special circumstances, we believe there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for their submission. We are therefore adjourned for ten (10') minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-20-S1-commons.u59	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. I would ask those colleagues who belong to the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs to be very warmly present at 11.30 p.m. in the Senate for the election of the Bureau. There will be a roll-call vote on the Ministerial Amendment under the general number 1103 and a special 94. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened, which I inform you will remain open for forty-five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-20-S1-commons.u60	I would like to inform you that letters or fax numbers have been sent to the Bureau in accordance with Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure of the House with which they give their votes. These votes will be taken into account in the calculation which will be followed and recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-20-S1-commons.u61	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-20-S1-commons.u62	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce the outcome of the roll-call vote on Amendment No 1103/94. A total of 286 Members voted. In favour of the amendment, i.e. 'NAH', 158 Members voted. Against the amendment, namely 'NO', they voted 107 Members. They voted for 21 Members of Parliament. The Ministerial Amendment No 1103/94 was therefore accepted by a majority. Members' positions, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-20-S1-commons.u63	We are now entering the vote on the whole. I would ask the rapporteurs and the special speakers to vote on the entire bill, on which there is no roll-call vote. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-20-S1-commons.u64	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-20-S1-commons.u65	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-20-S1-commons.u66	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-20-S1-commons.u67	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-20-S1-commons.u68	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-20-S1-commons.u69	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-20-S1-commons.u70	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Accordingly, the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: ‘Integration of Directive (EU) 2018/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December ‘Amendment of Directive 2012/27/EU on energy efficiency’, an adaptation to Regulation 2018/1999/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2018 on the governance of the Energy Union and the Climate Action and to Commission Delegated Regulation 2019/826/EU of 4 March 2019 on the amendment of Annexes VIII and IX to Directive 2012/27/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on the content of the comprehensive assessments of the potential for efficient heating and cooling’ and related arrangements for energy efficiency in the building sector, as well as the strengthening of Renewable Energy and Competition in the electricity market, was accepted by a majority, in a single debate on the principle of Articles and set out below and is:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-20-S1-commons.u71	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-20-S1-commons.u72	The House has given the mandate requested.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-20-S1-commons.u73	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the SPECIFIC FEDERATION Request for waiver of immunity Member: debate and decision, in accordance with Rule 62 of the Constitution and Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure of Parliament, on the request for the waiver of immunity of the Member and President of the Greek Parliamentary Group Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos. The report was announced by the relevant Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics on 6 October of this year, according to which members of the Committee unanimously proposed that Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos' immunity should not be lifted. In accordance with Rule 83(7) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, Parliament shall also decide by raising the hand or by resuming the request of the public prosecutor in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 108(1)(b) of the Rules of Procedure. The floor shall always be given, on request, to the Member to whom the request relates and to the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups or their alternates. I would remind you that, in accordance with a decision of the Conference of Presidents of 7 March 2018, the new electronic roll-call system has been activated. I would also remind you that your vote relates to the request of the prosecutor, namely those who wish, vote in favour or against the waiver of immunity. For anyone who wishes to do so, he shall vote 'the present'. After the debate on the case of today's special agenda is concluded, we shall proceed to a roll-call vote, as I said before. The case concerns the President of the Greek Parliamentary Group Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos. It is a litigation which came from the prosecutor's office for violating Article 162 of the Criminal Code, i.e. defrauding the voters. In particular, in the Party's vote on the European Parliament first was Mr Velopoulos, a second candidate and a third candidate. When the parliamentary elections were held, one of Mr Velopoulos's party was elected to the European Parliament. The President, Mr Velopoulos, chose the Greek Parliament and in the European Parliament the first complication went. The second complication raised an objection against the first person, claiming that while his name was Emmanuel Frangos, in parentheses there was the name Francoulis, which Mr Francois was not using, it was well known in the circle of candidates. The first complication - second complication at the beginning and first of all, after Mr Emmanuel Frangos came out - objected to the Supreme Special Court under Article 100 of the Constitution, saying there was a deception of the voters, because the name Francoulis was not sufficiently well known, but used it to exploit the reputation of General Francoulis. The Supreme Special Court, acting unanimously, rejected this request and his objection, saying that he was well known. In any case, it was not accepted. The Ethics Committee unanimously said that Mr Velopoulos' immunity should not be lifted, because it is of political relevance. It was a matter which was also cleared up in the Supreme Special Court. It is one of these cases where we sometimes say that more scrutiny should be carried out by the prosecutor in accordance with Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure and not come to Parliament. I see Mr. Velopoulos isn't here. Does a colleague want to take the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-20-S1-commons.u74	I, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-20-S1-commons.u75	Here, Mr. Heta, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-20-S1-commons.u76	I will be much shorter, Mr President. We won't trouble this House for such cases. We simply want to say that, for reasons of extra-parliamentary obligations, the President of the Greek Solution is not here today. You all know very well that it respects all the procedures and has proved it in the past. We also want to transfer, Mr President, on the occasion of this story. I'll agree with what you said. He manifestly involved political feasibility by this man. Besides, the decision of the Supreme Special Court was a catapult. He unanimously acquitted the President of Greek Solution. In other cases he, of course, has come here and has asked for his immunity to be waived. I think that we can agree on this, namely in cases that might hide something criminal or anything else or which concerns us in extra-parliamentary duties. On this occasion, we should consider and protect the parliamentary position. This is where we need to open up a word at some point, not today. But we must also see to it that we protect our own parliamentary authority and ourselves. It is not possible for everyone on a computer to make a message report and to run by the MPs - alas! - during the exercise of their parliamentary duties. The decision of the Supreme Special Court was disarming, it was catapult, it was unanimous. It was a unanimous decision of the Ethics Committee as well. That's all and nothing more. I don't think it's worth more attention. We have much more serious things to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-20-S1-commons.u77	Thank you very much. Before entering the vote, I would like to inform the members of the Standing Committee on Production and Trade that they will not leave because the Committee's Bureau will be elected in this Chamber immediately after the vote. We shall now proceed to the vote. As you know, it involves only one case, Mr. Velopoulos' waiver of immunity. After you have registered your vote, you have the opportunity to review it, to check it, and, of course, for every question you may address the appropriate secretaries of the House to help you in the voting. I would now ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-20-S1-commons.u78	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that letters and fax colleagues have been sent to the Bureau, pursuant to Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure of the House, in which they give their vote. [[CHANGING PAGE]] These votes will be taken into account in the electronic counting to be followed and recorded in the Minutes. [[The letters referred to above are lodged in the minutes and are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Once the vote has been completed, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-20-S1-commons.u79	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce the outcome of the electronic roll-call vote on the request for the waiver of immunity of my fellow Member and President of the Greek Parliament Group, Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos. In the case of Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos, a total of 275 Members voted. In favour of waiver of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', no one voted. They voted against the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'OH', 275, i.e. the whole. ‘PARON’, no one voted The request of the Public Prosecutor is therefore rejected unanimously. The result of the roll-call vote is recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-20-S1-commons.u80	Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-20-S1-commons.u81	The meeting for tomorrow, Thursday, 21 October 2021, at 10: 00' on the subject of this House's work, only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "Structuring the report. 11428- (97/6) Decision of 27 January 1997 of the Executive Board of the International Monetary Fund on New Arrangements to Borrow - NAB.'
