ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Before we begin the debate on today's topical and urgent questions, I have the honour of announcing to the House the issue of Friday 23 April 2021, which is as follows. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. Efstratiou (Stratou) Simopoulou to the Minister of Development and Investment, on the subject: "Integration of the Business Park (EPE) in Kalochori - Pontou Street in Thessaloniki". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question by Mr Socrates Vardakis to the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs on the subject: "The Voice of Indignation of the students of the summer high school". 3. The Question by Mr Dimitrios Konstantopoulou, Member of Parliament, to the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, dated 699/16-2021, on "Manufacture of the Platygiali Road - Ionia Street - Agrini - Karpenisi - Lamia - E65". 4. The question by No. 709/19-4-2021 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Mr. Ioannis Delis, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: “Scolaniti second death.” 5. The question by No 714/19-4-2021 of the Greek Parliamentary of State Mr.Villiardos to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Reimbursement of pensions to members of the Free Professional Insurance Organisation (OAE) who have completed 15 years of work or other assistance". 6. The question by number 693-15-2021 was raised by Mr. Athens, Mr. Angeliki Adamopoulou, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Proclamation of inaccurate data on the supply of vaccines and vaccinations - a worrying stand for Sputnik - V and monoclonal antibodies". B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question under number 716/19-4-2021 is a topical question by MP B3' South Athens, SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr.Ioannis Mousala, Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "Complete crossing of the conditions that led to the death of the Pre-Accession Centres for Immigration for Immigration (PRECCA) Kos and Corinth". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 705/19-4-2021 by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "To continue the concession of the Real Estate Company (ETAD) in which the International Exhibition Centre of Crete is housed and its use for the benefit of local society". 3. Under number 711/19-4-2021, a topical question by MP I Eastern Attica of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Ioannis Giokas to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Let the unacceptable methods for the completion of the destructive Integrated Waste Management (OEDA) Graphics be stopped. 4. The Question No 6898/16-24-2021 by MP Heraklion of Mera25 Mr. Georgios Logiades to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Tradition within twenty days of the former Gournos Base, asks the TIADED". 5. The Question by Mr Miltiades Hatzigiannakis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport on "Financing the work of the ‘Halkida'. 6. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr Vassiliou Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: 'Return of the contribution of pensioners to the pensioners of the State after the irrevocable decision of the Court of Auditors' 504/2021'. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The Question No 712/19-4-2021 by F' Vice-President of Parliament and Member of Parliament Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Georgios Lambroulis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Modification of all contract workers in the fields of cleanliness and preservation of primary health care structures (PHP) of the 5th Health Region (HAP)". 8. The Question No 700/19-4-2021, by MP B2' West Athens Department of Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas Arseni to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "The government is planning the assignment of Camp 301 E.B. in Agios Anargyros to individuals instead of the Municipality.’ 9. The question by No 708/19-4-2021 of the Member of the Arta of the Change Movement Mr Christos Gokas to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Financial support measures and the enhancement of the income of the citrus growers of the Regional Unit (PT)". 10. The question by No 713/19-4-2021 of the Member of the Eotolokarnania Parliamentary of the Change Movement Mr. Dimitrios Konstantopoulos to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Repeated injustices in mobilisation of the Armed Forces of Servants at the Airport of the Coast". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 4512/24-2-2021 by MP Heraklion of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Charalambos (Hari) Mamoulakis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "What are the conditions for privatising the former US base in York Heraklion Crete". Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that with his letter the Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs, Mr Stelios Koutnatzis, informs the House of the timely questions we have today. It is Mr Tsiaras' answer to Question 691/13-2021. It is Mr Lebanese's Question No 690-12-24-2021 that will be answered by the Minister for Rural Development and Food. It is the Question No 695/15-2021 topical and Question No 1663/11-11-20, which will be answered by the State Secretary for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Domna Michailidou. It is the Question No 692/14-2021 that will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sport, Eleftherios Aygeakis. Finally, it is the Question No 710/19-4-2021 which will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sports, Mr Nikolaos Yatromanolakis. The Secretary-General for Parliamentary Affairs Mr Stelios Koutnatzis asks the Services to take the appropriate steps to inform the parties concerned, which has already been done. We begin with the second debate under number 691/13-2021 of the first cycle of the SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance Mr.Theophilos Xanthopoulou to the Minister of Justice, on the subject: "Syrian institutional deception of judicial associations by the government. It promotes, by way of interpretation, the critical changes to important institutional law on the functioning of justice, undermines the rule of law, exposes the country internationally." The Minister of Justice will answer Mr. Constantine Tsiara. Here, Mr. Xanthopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u3	Thank you very much, Mr President. Introductoryly, today is April 21st. It is the day of the coup and the memory of all of us runs to the people who stood up against the dictatorship, who honoured the status of citizens. The country is going through the longer-lived period of democratic normality. Democracy is strong, but it needs all of us to support, in order to expand, to expand, so that it is a civilization that is inclusive for all citizens. I conclude by saying 'never again, never fascism!'. Minister, despite the successive deeds mainly of the Union of Judges and Prosecutors, the largest judicial union in the country, but also of the other judicial associations, the Minister of Justice, you, i.e., stubbornly refuse to participate in the legislative process for the New Code of Judiciary and State of Judiciary, concerning their service, promotions, inspection, disciplinary control, etc. And it is so disgraceful, Minister, that you did not even reply to the joint letter of all the judiciary associations - the EES, the Association of Administrative Judges, the Association of Prosecutors of Greece, the Association of Judges of the Court of Justice - which asked for information on the timetable for setting up the committee. On the other hand, while the Ministry had decided to make a number of changes to the Codes alone, it leaked to the press that the relevant committee was not to be set up. The Union of Judges and Prosecutors, in front of this unacceptable attitude of the government, addressed it by letter to the Heads of the parties, but also to the European Union of Judges, denounced the obvious governmental institutional unrest. And immediately, its President, Jose Irechha Matos, by letter to the Minister of Justice, expressed the concern of the European Union of Judges about the intentions of the Greek Government to exclude legal associations from the above-mentioned legislative procedure, saying that the European acquis and the principle of the rule of law is a direct threat to judicial independence, and that this issue will also be raised in the General Assembly of the European Union of Judges. Faced with these very serious objections, which internationally expose the country, recalling the problems of justice in countries such as Poland and Hungary, the Minister of Justice has resorted to a misunderstood tactic. He called the incorrect information and rejected it on the pretext that in the draft of the new Code of Justice and Judiciary, already drafted in December 2018 by a special legislative committee, the judicial associations participated by a majority. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] However, it was unable to hide that the Ministry plans to significantly change the forecasts of this project by holding back to judicial associations only after the draft law has been completed by unknown authors who have undertaken to incorporate the government's political objectives in its forecasts in relation to the functioning of the courts. The problem is even deeper, since the institutional devaluation of judicial associations in the form of their non-participatory committees is conscious and systematic, since the government has excluded them from the drafting of other important bills, such as the changes to the National School of Judges and the Code of Civil Procedure, and they are even excluded from the meetings on the protection of the health of judicial officers during the reopening of the courts. Minister, you are in the ministry, which is essentially the ark of the institutional functioning of the civil society and of this type of behaviour, and perhaps our country may be invoked for conduct similar to Poland and Hungary, will not pay tribute to anyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u4	Finish it, Mr. Comrade. You've been in five minutes instead of two minutes. Please, it's not right.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u5	I'm done, Mr. President. So you ask what action you will take in order to prevent any exhibition by Greece internationally in violation of the principles of judicial independence and to show that you are effectively respecting the European acquis by calling on the representatives of the judicial associations in good time for their legislative work. And, secondly, you ask what changes the government is working on in relation to the service situation, the development and the Disciplinary Law of Judiciaries, and whether the proposals of the so-called Pissaridis report affect you. Thank you for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u6	Here, Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u7	Mr President, I have listened very carefully and you are aware of the deep appreciation I have on your face. However, I understand that you had to ask a question, the answer you knew of it, following the commitment of the President of the SYRIZA to the Association of Judges and Prosecutors at the recent meeting he had with her Bureau and I do not hide it from you that your question really leaves me amazed both in your style and in your objections. The former Prime Minister pointed out that he would take every necessary parliamentary initiative to highlight the Union's institutional demands in order to preserve its constitutionally regulated role. Something you're confused about, and I'm not saying it. It is the post that Mr Tsipras himself gave in order to raise this issue. You have also confused the constitutionally guaranteed role of the Union of Judges, but much more with issues that you know have already been answered. You are therefore talking about a disgraceful attitude by the Minister, about the exclusion of judicial associations, about conscious and systematic institutional devaluation of judicial associations. And you, SYRIZA, honestly? Apparently, there's no memory. Your President, Mr Tsipras, does not remember, and obviously the SYRIZA officials, the institutional deception you have reserved for justice in the five years of your own government, which justice and research itself fully independently, and which does so with the judicial guarantee of the rule of law, which the current government and the Prime Minister have respected since the first day. I would, therefore, well urge you to be more careful when leaving the government on matters relating to justice. And I would tell you not to submit this whole procedure of parliamentary scrutiny to a reasonable micro-unionist approach. I'll tell you this in my head. So let's go see the substance. Was the Legislative Committee to amend the Code of Jurisdiction and Judiciary? Did this Association of Judges and Prosecutors or not participate in it? I will present to you the relevant FEC of the decision of the then Minister of Justice, Mr. Kontonis, although I think that in recent years you probably do not want to hear the name of Mr. Kontonis. We are still waiting for sufficient explanations. This committee, in which the judicial associations took part, then delivered its opinion to the Ministry, which was then sent in accordance with Article 14 of Law 1756/1988 for an opinion on the administrative remnants of the Supreme Court. Therefore, a large part of the pretext of the draft law has already been made on the basis of the committee's finding and the remarks made by the courts. And because, dear Mr Xanthopoulou, the state has and must keep up with it, we will continue the process from where we have received it. Therefore, on the basis of these observations and in response to any other needs that have emerged in the meantime, the Ministry will formulate the final draft law, which will be sent back to the plenary sessions and to the judiciary for their final observations in order to be submitted to Parliament as soon as possible. If you would ask me, I would tell you that carbons of this so-called opposition treasure, as, in fact, you are knocking open doors. The judicial associations have already participated in the legislative process on the new law concerning their service status and their positions and all of this has been recorded. Our intention is to participate actively in the next stages. And I say this in advance that I personally have safeguarded the institutional functioning of justice, as the relevant procedure - which the government has the power of state to decide who it will be - is obviously not just exhausted in the work of a legislative committee. That's reality and you know it. But why all this happened and if you remember coming back to all these social groups or bodies that you systematically denounced during the period of your own governance, it is a matter that I will analyse you in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u8	Mr. Blondopoulos, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u9	President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: That's what you reminded me of. Here there is a specific correspondence and there is a cause for the Union of European Judges for specific omissions. You, of course, believe in the tactics you have chosen, as a New Democracy, you raise all the issues in the SYRIZA period, except for the pandemic. That's something. I would therefore like to point out the following in your reply. A large part of the finding was formulated with the participation of associations. The concern of the associations, which I am interpreting, is precisely what has happened since that conclusion and what will be the interventions. And since your Ministry's policy does not guarantee many times that what has been agreed will continue to exist, both judges and we interpret the will of these people. I would remind you that another conclusion was tabled by the Legislative Committee for the Change of Parents and Children's Relations to Family Law and otherwise entered into public consultation. So you understand that it is not enough to invoke SYRIZA’s works and days. You have to tell us about these. Secondly, will it be sent to associations for expression of opinion? Is that what you're saying? Here, in my question, I am putting all the associations that have taken a protest, and that is why you are not saying anything. What are you going to do? And I say again, Minister, that the institutional function requires that we accept, as a speaker, the person with the legitimacy to speak. We don't choose a card, nor do we call at home what we want. You are obliged to deal with and cooperate with the associations of judges and prosecutors, judges in general, on matters relating to their industry, on issues relating to their development, but also on issues of general legislation. I keep your commitment positive that your view is that they should be involved. But this commitment must take flesh and bones to be convincing. Finally, Minister, I would like to point out that the second question I asked is still pending. What changes are you working on on the service situation and the Disciplinary Law and whether these initiatives are affected by the so-called Pissaridis report? It's an issue that I'm going to be waiting for in your dentistry to answer. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr. Xanthopoulou. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u11	Mr President, I would like to make this clear: my respect and relationship with all the institutions of justice was, it was, it was, and it will be absolutely consistent. I've personally seen more than ten judiciary representatives. Of course, the majority of these meetings were with the Board of Governors of the Association of Judges and Prosecutors. Think, too, of what you are saying and keep it - here is the evidence - that since August 2019 members of the Association of Judges and Prosecutors have been appointed to four legislators and working groups. So what omission are we talking about? Because I understand that you are either ignoring things or, in wanting to do what your Chief has asked you to do, ask a question for parliamentary scrutiny, you are obviously driving this debate somewhere else. So I ask you directly: What can we do when the national interest requires the speeding up of a legislative initiative? Tell me: Do you want to reconstruct a legal committee for a year or two, with the commitment that has been made over the days of your own government and that has to be respected by us in the face of the institutions for the reform of our judiciary? Tell me. I want you to answer that right away. Do we do so, with whatever risk the country can have, in order to lose resources or a more general support? For me, there is no safer choice than relying on the systematic work of the previous legislator and developing through dialogue and consultation with all stakeholders in order to reach a conclusion. The conclusion will be presented by the end of June. So, in order to answer your second question, I am taking you to this particular time, in order to have this whole context of the proposed changes to the Code of the Statute of the Court of Justice and of the Judiciary. That is what we choose to do, and that is what we will do. We are getting the conclusion of the previous legislative committee. We have incorporated, as I told you earlier, the remarks of the Supreme Courts and as we are institutionally obliged to do, then we will send this conclusion to all interlocutors, including the Union of Judges and Prosecutors, in order to come to legislation. Where, then, is the dark path of creating a bill with suspicious political targets, which you write about and say, for which you are abandoning us? Really, tell me, let me get this straight. At some point we have to stop, Mr. Colleague, the micropolicy. I understand that the President of the Union of Judges and Prosecutors has been in a very difficult position in recent years, taking a position on an open judicial matter and, if you like, creating the reason why all the supreme judiciaries have been in front of him, criticising the involvement of a judge in a matter where he should not actually be a participant. And this has led him to a hopeless attempt to raise an issue that does not exist. But taking it from there and asking a question about a development that relates to itself in its previous period of governance, I think that, if it is not a contradiction, it is a huge hypocrisy. Because the Qualified Opposition ruled the place and has the relevant experience of time pressure sometimes. I don't want to remind you. It will be painful memories for you and the political presence of SYRIZA in the previous period. However, in order to end this, as I told you earlier, we will make use of the finding of the prefecture committee of the previous government, in order to have a modern, flexible, operational and effective Code of the Statute of the Court of Justice and Judiciary. The consultation will be held with everyone, with the full sessions of the Supreme Courts and with the associations of judges. I assure you, in passing, that with other associations that I have spoken to and have informed them of all this, they are fully in line with the plan that exists. So I understand the difficulty of the President of the Union of Judges and prosecutors. If you adopt this as your own policy, it is obviously an issue for which we are all judged. Obviously, you will be judged too. Finally, I close with one more observation. You made a reference to unknown authors of the new text of the bill. I want to ask you to withdraw it. You have insinuated it in more general references, and I would like you to withdraw it, because the Legal Initiative Office, which assists the Minister of Justice and looks after the final texts of the bills, is responsible, on the one hand, for being law-abiding and experienced lawyers, but, above all, for judicial officers, seconded by the administrations of the courts, on their own choice, who are, of course, the same members of the associations. So we need to pay attention to the wording of all these positions. And of course, on the other hand, we must all understand that political responsibility for the functioning of justice is obviously the responsibility of the government in question. That's the reality. And that is, of course, the provision of the Constitution itself. I shall close, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance. We are making a huge effort, Mr Colleagues, to follow closely a plan of reforms which will ultimately result in the most quality of justice, the increase in the confidence of Greek citizens in justice and, of course, in the speeding up of its operation, because we know what the greatest pathogen is. This is a plan that I personally believed and still believe should be supported by all the wings of the Greek Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u12	I would like to make a clarification, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u13	The question is over. What kind of clarification? What he told you is to see that the committee is not unknown. Indeed, if you enter the FEK, the committee is published. So she's not unknown.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u14	The 'unknown' I said in the sense that we do not know them, not that they have no status.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u15	It's not tritology, Mr. Xanthopoulou, as you know. Next is the fifth under the number 695/15-2021 timely question for the first cycle of MP II Piraeus, Mr.Fotinis Bakadammas, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: “The Housing and Work Programme” for beneficiaries of Piraeus II. Mr Domna - Maria Michailidou will be answered by the State Secretary for Labour and Social Affairs. Mrs Bakadamma, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u16	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, and I thank you for being here today to discuss a really important question, which concerns many citizens, not only my own constituency, but also this second Piraeus. And I really must recognise both your sensitivity and the interest you have shown in the region and its inhabitants and thank you for that too. But let's move on to the point, so I'll be in time. Since February 2021 you have announced, following your visit to Drapetsona's camp, that those who live there will be included in the upcoming program "House and Work", a program aimed at reintegrating our fellow citizens, individuals and families who live on the road, in homeless hostels or in inappropriate accommodation. Through this, as you have announced, work is expected to be subsidized, rented for eighteen to twenty - four months, basic construction and operating expenses of a home. So our fellow citizens will be able to stand on their feet and reintegrate slowly into the country's economic and social situation. Given that, as I have been informed, the Keratsini Municipal Authority has already tabled a comprehensive and detailed proposal on how the programme could be implemented and how to integrate its citizens into it, as well as on your visit to Perama, you have expressed your intention to include beneficiaries of the Municipality of Perama in this, so I would like you to reply to me when you plan to start implementing the programme for the Municipality of Keratini - Drapetsonas and if there is any provision to include in it our fellow people who are either homeless or are staying in unsuitable accommodation and the other municipalities of Piraeus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u17	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mrs Bakadima, you know very well that housing is a fundamental human right and a term for protecting every person's life and dignity. That is why, if you wish, our housing social policy is a policy based both on the preventive axis and on the axis of the treatment of homelessness. So, our ministry over these years is that it has a multifaceted, horizontal - based on housing social policy - but also on vertical axes - which specialise in both prevention and the treatment and reduction of homelessness - it has various actions and policies which it has both financially and qualitatively. What exactly am I talking about? I am thinking primarily of the housing allowance, which is given to weak households, to cover part of their rent - of course with income criteria - and which this year has been strengthened. You know that all our allowances were increased by 22%. In particular, the housing allowance was strengthened in the 2021 budget by 34%. As far as the programmes that you have mentioned, such as Housing and Work are concerned, I will tell you that we believe in this programme. And precisely because we believe in the 'House and Work' programme, we have established it as a regular programme. Where this programme has been carried out for almost a decade, only twice as a pilot, we have come to legislate, we have incorporated it into the regular budget, which means that at least every two years there will be an invitation to municipalities and municipalities. I insist on that, because the criteria are set out in the law. What criteria am I talking about? The population of 100 000 people of a municipality, but also municipalities, are allowed to join this programme. What are we doing with this program? With this programme we permanently, if you wish, and incorporate as a stable social housing policy the fight against homelessness through three very basic axes. The first has to do with housing itself, that is, subsidising the rent for the people who are in the homelessness and their families. The second is about the psychosocial support of these people, which is very much needed, especially in these cases, and the third is about finding and financing jobs, whether they be self-employment or even mobilisation in various programmes, such as OAS's public-benefit work. So we came, we established this programme as permanent, and what do we say? That we're setting some criteria. These criteria, as I told you before, are the hundreds of thousands of people in the municipality that they are part of. I know your region very well now, and I also know your region, and that is why, if you like, I also have a particular sensitivity to it. The Municipality of Keratini - Drapetsonas, if I remember correctly, had joined this program in 2015. Since then, precisely because he did not meet the criteria, he did not make a partnership with another municipality. So, where are we now? We are at the point where the invitation for next time has not yet come out. This invitation will come out in this year, when the Municipality of Keratini and with our help, where necessary, will have to co-operate with someone else near the municipality so that it can join the project and benefit from the provisions and actions of these activities, from which, as you understand, the Mayor understands, I understand, will very much benefit the inhabitants of the region and will, if you like, and a breath, which so much needs the people who are in the constellation and who live in this treaty, unfortunately over a decade. Thank you. I reserve it for dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u19	Mrs Bakadima, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u20	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, thank you very much for the clarifications. They were extremely useful. Because it is really an extremely important programme, which we should also support, as far as we can help to support all our fellow citizens in difficulties and in need, I would just like to put in your knowledge another case of our fellow citizens living in Piraeus and we really need to see what can be done for them. I'm sure you don't hear it for the first time, at least I hope you don't hear it for the first time. And I'm talking about the earthquakes of Nice. It's a camp that was created after the 1999 earthquake. The people have been there since January 2020. At first they were thirty - nine families. In 2016 the census showed that 12 houses are inhabited. About that many families are today. And, as is apparent from a document from the Ministry of Health, in 2020 most of these homes, homes, even those who live and live in families, are not electrified, electricity has been stopped since 2013. I should like to point out that this area does not belong to the municipality, it belongs to the State General of Nice and, moreover, as has also been demonstrated by official documents from the Ministry of Health and not only, any damage caused by people is being called upon to incur them, to bear the costs themselves. You understand that when we talk about families who other people expect the minimum income of solidarity and others try to work magazines, it is very difficult to bear costs. So these people have been in extremely precarious conditions for twenty years and, unfortunately, what they see is indifference, apathy and analgesia, let me say. In this light, and at the opportunity of discussing this timely question, I would like to ask your commitment to seeing the issue of these people as well, so that, regardless of whether they are staying in Keracini, Drapetsona, Nice or elsewhere, they can join the 'House and Work', so that they too can slowly stand on their feet and see that the state is really next to them and is not against them. Because I think it is best that you have a own view of the situation in the earthquake camp in Nice, I invite you to make a visit together as soon as possible so that you do not have to listen to my own words, but you can see people and speak with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Bakadima. Madam Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Bakandima, I would like to have a very interesting view, as I am visiting areas where unfortunately the density of our fellow citizens who are in increased vulnerability is great, to visit the Nice camp together. You also know because of geographical interest that the similar case of the Nice camp is precisely Drapetsonas. Just the same way former earthquakes, which after the 1999 earthquake, had to settle in the short term in some containers, have still been the same. Either, in most cases, both in Drapetsona and in Nice, the containers have unfortunately remained as infrastructure, but their culprits have changed. Nevertheless, the housing conditions of our fellow citizens, whether earthquakes themselves or later, are conditions that neither you - and I certainly nor I - want to continue and are not viable. So, listening to your word, I'm taking the opportunity to propose - what better? - a municipal partnership between the Municipality of Nice and the Municipality of Drapetsonas, where both of them will be able to have the population criteria for joining the next "House and Work" invitation and to be able both to ensure that the three pillars are implemented for their tenants. I mean, both the part of the housing and the part of the work and the part of the psychosocial support. It is a programme in which we believe, a programme that is multifaceted and holistic, is not just 'take a rent subsidy'. It is the rent, as well as the construction and the TECs. It also subsidises wages and insurance contributions, for example. If anyone doesn't want to be an employee and wants to do a job of his own, he's also subsidising it. Of course, it also has the whole part of the psychosocial support, in which the municipality and local authorities themselves have a great deal of power. I would like to say here that, precisely because economic and social vulnerability is very pronounced in these regions and, unfortunately, in the pandemic, we have had to support this world even further, the relationship between the state and local government must be very close. We've seen some administrative, if you like, personalities, which always exist and will always exist. So the point is how we can all - you, who control the government, we, who run the state, and local government - help to achieve the best possible result, especially for our most vulnerable citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, too, Minister. We move on to the first question under number 1663/11-11-20 of the circle of petitions and questions of the South Athens Department of Athens, SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance of Mrs.Theanos Fotou, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "To withdraw the decision to suspend the operation of Creative Employment Centres (CICs) which adversely affect children, parents and workers already face the painful consequences of pandemic." And this question will be answered by the State Secretary, Mr Domna Michailidou. Mrs. Fotou, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Secretary, this question here today is the update of the question we asked in November of forty SYRIZA Members - Progressive Alliance, and then we asked for the CDIs that you had closed down, while the primary schools that concerned the same ages and the same children were working. And it was unreasonable that this closure, because in the CDIs, the ceiling is 15 children, while in the municipality twenty-eight. At the same time, however, you have brought changes in the way the CIDs and CIDs operate - AIAs, which you have advertised as a major reform. Only so-called reforms were all referred to in CFDs, which could overthrow them. For example, it is forbidden to operate in primary schools in law, but it may set an exception. This was mainly the case for primary CDIs. It is, of course, about the already operational, but also new, which would be founded, four hundred CDIs and a thousand four hundred private, seven and a half employees and all the new ones to be established. Since then, much water has flown into the groove. The government has closed the primary schools and the CIDs and has not reopened them. He completely lost control of the pandemic, and today we mourn hundreds of dead people every week. Within the first eight months of the pandemic, until November, the dead were six hundred twenty - six, while from November to today nine thousand. The NSA wasn't reinforced and every day it collapses in the ICUs. Today we are on the autopilot "forward cliff and back stream". No Easter in the village, no Easter in the house. Also, five months after the publication of the law, you do not make any UAAs for the implementation of Law 4756/2020, as well as for the UAA for the new voucher program that will be requested by parents and which, as you know, is done in May. Last year you had a hundred thirty-three thousand applications. You have covered sixty-five thousand, and you have even given more voucher to the JAPHs, knowing that there were no structures to absorb these vouchers. So I update my questions as follows: First, do you intend to open up the CIDs after Easter, since the Minister of Education announces the opening up of primary schools? Secondly, when will you issue the NSAs implementing Law 4756/2020 on the establishment of new private and municipal CIDs and CIDs - AEOs, as well as the provisions on existing ones and when will you get the Vouchers of the new year 2021-2022, which is usually issued in May, but is now intervening in Easter? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u25	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u26	Mr President, thank you. They are usually a lot of questions and questions of Officer Responsibility. I will try to answer most of them. The pandemic has been and continues to be an extremely difficult exercise, on the one hand, to protect public health and, on the other, to protect and safeguard social well-being. We, especially in our ministry, are trying to do what goes through our hand so that this very delicate and difficult balance can be kept to the highest level for our beneficiaries and our most vulnerable fellow citizens. You know very well - and I know you know that, because we are talking about it - that from the very beginning we have done what was going through our hand to keep open, but also at the highest level of our services, our structures which are closed, that is, the structures in which our most vulnerable citizens live. And what do I mean by that? It's the 30% emergency staff we took for a year and a half in the closed structures. These are the most stringent protocols to protect the benefits we have gained from all over Europe. It is the weekly tests, which in social structures we succeeded and were carried out every week. These are the vaccines with which we prioritised the elderly, the ADIs that are staying in closed structures, and we have succeeded today, and they are all vaccinated and the second dose has passed today. So those in terms of closed structures. It has been a direct, rapid and effective way of dealing with it, so that both the budgetary and the social dimension can keep it to the highest possible level. For the open structures now and I end up with them, because one of them is also the CIPs that are included in your question. For the open structures we have again worked in consultation with the National Authority of Licensing. Our government doesn't do anything on its own. She makes her suggestions to the National Committee on Liquidology, she talks with the National Committee, she talks with us within it, because she often does not know the exact regulatory elements on the basis of which these structures operate, and she draws her conclusions, which we as government and we adopt for the functioning of these structures. With regard to open structures, especially the pro-social structures, we did everything we could to explain to the National Authority what exactly it means to children themselves or to adults with disabilities that these structures would be open and that their closure would go back to the therapeutic - social part, but also to the therapeutic part of their own health. You know that if anyone doesn't do reason therapy or treatment for one or two months later he can go even years back to his own progress. So we managed with hard protocols, with continuous tests, with vaccination again in the open structures, to keep them open to great, if you want, relief of the beneficiaries themselves and even more of their families. Now, in the creative employment centres you mention, you know that it is our priority and it is precisely why you mentioned it. Because we have sat down and made a coherent, comprehensive legislative framework, under which it will work rather than fragmentary ministerial decisions, on the basis of which it operates as they want and with a constant need for circulars to determine their exact functioning. So we have created this coherent framework, in which, if you want to be clear in the Greek Parliament, there was no CSR municipality that worked against someone private or otherwise. In any case, that was not the case. Now, why did the CADs close down according to the National Lens Authority? Because it is another school to stay open and there is the reason that the same children visit the same school every day. It is true that that logic is simple. The same children, the same "cohort" the so-called one, every day visit the same school, with the existing protocols. The CPD, as you quite rightly say in your question, in one class has fewer children than a school. He's got fifteen kids. These fifteen children, however, can be from fifteen different schools. So, the whole part of the diffusion, unfortunately, of the virus and hence of the defence of public health - even if the children carry the virus, as you said, and the infectious ones say, at much lower levels - goes back. Another is that we have the same children who go to the same environment, with the same group every day, that is, schools, and others are in line with the infectious - and it is quite simple logic, which I at least understand - that these children are dispersed into different CSRs and that there is an afternoon connection with quite different groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u27	Mrs. Fotio, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u28	Madam Secretary, I understand you won't answer me if you're not going to get a CPI on your law, or if the CPIs open. You both don't answer me. Right? Also, it's not the time to say about the hundreds of dead people in the nursing homes. Because nursing homes, i.e. people of third age, are not just public structures. You remember in the summer of 2020 you told us that you did this arm, the infamous one, where you would control both private and public. The private was left on the autopilot. I'm going to S.H.I.E.L.D. again. If I want to ask you questions in the other field, I'll come and ask you. She's not here. I'm interested in CIDs now. Let's go again. You're going to take out the nostalgic for the CID, for your law? Will they work this year with this new law that you so much advertised the existing JAPDs and a new one will be set up? It's clear. Don't you have time? Tell me I can't make it. It's okay. I don't have that problem right now. However, we must give an answer. And secondly, will you suggest to the infectious scientists, will the infectious scientists answer you, will the CIDs open up by August or not, if they open up municipal, as Mrs Kerameos says? These are two very clear things. But there is a third, unfortunately. I'll tell you. It is well known to the paramilitaries of Jerusalem that an irregularity - not to mention illegality - has occurred in recent years. They transfer, and you know it, Madam Secretary, clearly, under the voucher table that they take to sports clubs and other clubs and the children are transported to spaces outside the CFP facilities, for activities that are not covered by any institutional framework, with uncertified trainers. Today, when all the scandals, violence and abuse in the field of sport in children have been revealed by the brave testimony of Sofia Bekateros and the great movement of "METOO", I ask you: First, do you know what I denounce and have investigated these illegal acts and whether the KLAs you are issuing will exclude them? Will the CSIs rule out that you're publishing them? Are you going to leave half or more children out of the CFP this year than you will be applying for voucher, such as last year when sixty-five thousand children have left, or will you increase the CIP fund as did SYRIZA during his administration? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Do you intend to apply vouchers - many questions appear, so you tell me, but it's the same reasoning - for sport? Madam Secretary, I submitted to the Committee on Social Affairs about a month ago, with Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou, the SYRIZA National Action Plan - Progressive Alliance for Children. I would ask you to read it. There we have an excellent action, which says voucher for primary school children for sport. We have it costly, because we were ready to implement it. It was 80 million. I would ask you, therefore, to dismiss, after you are quite clear that CSRs cannot make these stories, assign their responsibilities and the children to be transferred to sports clubs with coaches in other establishments, uncertified. It's a huge problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u29	Finish it, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr President. I'm done. I'm just explaining it a little bit more. You can give this voucher. It will be a great relief for families who want to send their children to amateur clubs. It's a win-win story. And strengthen amateur sport and at the same time children and families who are suffering will receive a subsidy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u31	Thank you very much, Mrs. Fotou. Madam Secretary, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr President. There are still a lot of questions, Ms. Papoutsis. As to the part of the ministerial decision. The ministerial decision comes out within the month. There's no delay. The JAPDs will start with the new competition and the new invitation from the EBRD to operate for the new school year from September 2021. If I'm not mistaken, today we have April. There's no delay. There is no delay and we have left this essential time so that there can be a very long consultation, which is done. And all the time in my office, the phones are ringing, so we can see what the different parents have to say either by clubs or private or municipal CSRs on the ministerial decision that we have put into this very large consultation, so that everyone who has to have a say on it has to have it openly and we have our ears open to hear it. Now, as to whether they open up, they won't open up. We, Mrs. Fotio, are not suitors. It doesn't mean that, because we want them to open, they'll open. You know what? I do not want the pandemic to exist either, I do not want this very great social pressure to exist. I would not like there to be any more dead people and there to be such a high contagion of this murderous virus. I wouldn't want to. And can I tell you something? I'm sure you wouldn't like it either. But I don't decide. If the infectious people tell me in particular that, with this logic of the corte, we must not have other groups, see other groups, see other children in the morning - afternoon from different geographical regions, different schools and different ages, then I - and it is my duty as a state - to follow what experts tell me. I'm not a beader. I'm doing what I have to do. I told you from the outset it was a difficult balance. Social welfare and the defence of public health is a difficult balance, but I must make the right and responsible decisions so that I can keep it. Now, you mentioned the logic that some voucher are given under the table. This is exactly what, Mrs Fotio, we are coming to cure, precisely the analgesia that existed for the five years in which your government has dealt with the issue of CSR. What's going on over there?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u33	You're wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u34	I'm not mistaken. Unfortunately, we inherited a problem that goes back. That is why we have come to the realisation of the need to create this horizontal and coherent framework that will regulate the functioning of the CFPs. And we did it exactly for what you say, because we knew that in the past years and the entire five years that you regulated social affairs in our ministry there were such practices. That is why the EBRD is taking a much more substantial control mechanism. In cooperation with the regions we will be able to see who sends and who does not send his children to the CSR and what happens to public money, because we here are accounting for. On the one hand, we must defend the families, which we are defending. You said the CAPs were closed. However, what you did not say is that this whole period, on the basis of a decision of the Minister for Development, the owners of the CFP are being paid. The owners of the CIDs are paid! So it's a part of the economy that works. On the other hand, what you have also failed to say is that the CIDs for disabled people have kept them open. And for us, this is the most important thing, that we managed the most vulnerable children could go and not go a centimeters back to their treatments. Not a centimeters! We are here for the most vulnerable and we defend both their public health and their social and personal welfare. The other thing we are doing is correcting the mistakes and bad practices of the past, because one state - I say it many times - has a continuity. After us, the next one hopes that our state will make it even better. So we correct the bad practices of the past and go with a system of child protection, which looks and incorporates the part you rightly mentioned, of child abuse, for which you will see legislative intervention from us in the next few months, not to say weeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, too, Minister. We proceed to the fourth with number 710/19-4-2021 topical question by MP First Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Measures of safe opening places of culture". Mr. Delis will reply to Mr. Delis' timely question by the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sport Mr. Nicholas Gateromanolakis. Mr. Delia, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u36	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, with the exception of certain minimum productions and tours made in the summer of 2020, then for a whole year and more cultural sites remain closed. And yet, if culture is a need and a right of every human being under normal circumstances, think about how much more cultural activity is gaining in conditions of mass folk confinement, such as the ones we have been living for months with the pandemic. We all understand, of course, that both art and culture can play a comforting role, they can contribute positively to dealing with the negative consequences of this long-term incarceration, but with one condition: this cultural activity can be by living, living, being alive, being real. But culture, as you know, Minister, and art is not done by pressing a button quickly. To make the theatrical performances, concerts, productions, exhibitions, festivals need preparation of one, two months, sometimes more. And all this, of course, the world of culture and art lies for months now in a mist of uncertainty, literally, as the government has announced absolutely nothing, as if it were not at all concerned with the opening up of cultural activities. Meanwhile, with the government's responsibility, the majority of artists and workers in culture are outdated financially and, of course, it is also difficult for them to plan anything for the future. So we ask you, Minister, what measures will you and your Government take to immediately announce - we repeat, immediately - the opening up of cultural sites and the opening up of artistic schools, of artistic schools, of art schools, of specific health works protocols, with provision for the replacement of courses for these artistic schools and especially for the seniors of these schools? Also, Minister, what measures will you take to extend the special purpose allowance to those artists and workers in culture have absolutely no income from February 2020? For workers with a service card and self-employed persons with an income of up to EUR 15 000, we call for the tax to be lifted and for the tax to be paid in advance, for their debts to be cancelled in bills, municipal fees, for the next five months, at least to be exempt from the payment of contributions, without any loss of their pension rights. That is the real protection net for all these people suffering, Minister, and that is what we think needs to be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u37	Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you very much, Mr Delis, for your question. You have raised many issues. I will try to answer as much as I can in my time. I do agree with you, indeed, that the cultural sector is one of those who have been very affected both at the level of cultural production and in relation to the sustainability of their workers. The Ministry of Culture since the first day - and this is well known - has taken a number of initiatives to support the industry and its employees and professionals and businesses. Also, because I agree with what you said, that it is culture, if you want, and a refuge for the citizens in this difficult treaty, it was a priority for us - and it remains - not to break down this relationship between citizens and culture and not to stop citizens from being accessed to culture. In this context, in addition to the actions and responsibilities traditionally within the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Culture, we have been working since the very beginning of the pandemic and with the Ministry of Finance, Labour and Development, precisely in order to shield ourselves with as many measures as possible - whether horizontal, but also specific, targeted, especially in the field of culture - against the consequences of the pandemic. I can tell you, in the period from March 2020 to March 2021, more than EUR 300 million have been channelled to the cultural sector in the context of dealing with the pandemic. This sum I am saying is beyond traditional grants and subsidies given by the Ministry of Culture. We add 166 million in the form of special-purpose compensation, insurance contributions and advance repayments, 30 million through the Artists' Register. The Artists Register is a mechanism that was built ad hoc, on this basis, just to widen the safety net and identify and protect people who could not be protected by horizontal measures. Now the March payment is being prepared for these people. Within these are 50 million in supervised bodies, who have, in turn, channelled this money to the market through commissions and so on. In addition, we are planning new measures, which will be announced in the near future. We have also guaranteed for modern culture 250 million from the Recovery Fund, that is 50% of the resources that the Ministry of Culture will receive from the Recovery Fund. It has never been done before, to be 50% for modern culture. It is just to protect the industry through reforms and development programmes. And as long as the pandemic continues and as long as we have to have measures to protect the population, we will obviously protect the industry and support it. We have also taken care of a number of measures for public access. For example, I am telling you of the reduction in VAT on live streaming precisely to reduce the cost, which, from 24%, went to 6% for as long as the pandemic lasts and so on. I must tell you that, in relation to the health protocols, we have, on the one hand, ensured that there are, on the other hand, protocols for rehearsal, shooting, we have also recently passed for repertoire and for the preparation of large producers. We have also submitted to the Committee on Literature since March a road map with fullness rates, with a gradual opening up of culture for the whole area of contemporary culture and for artistic education, but, as you know very well, we are obliged to follow the Commission's guidelines. We're ready. We have prepared all the health protocols, followed last year - the sector, that is - with great success. I am sure this will happen this year. The road map exists and we are ready at all times to open the sector safely. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u39	Mr. Delia, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you've made a little financial statement from your ministry about how the pandemic has been dealt with all this time. But the main question we asked was that you should commit yourself, say publicly when art and culture will finally be opened, that is, when they will function alive. Now, with regard to the Committee on Logistics, after all the latest developments, we do not know whether the committee is proposing to the government and deciding whether or not the government is dictating too many times to the committee so that it can be proposed and then the government can make political decisions. So the question, Minister, is to say when cultural activity will open and when artistic schools will work. That's the main thing right now, that's what the whole world is waiting to hear. It is an activity that, as you very well know, can be done safely health both in theatre performances and in the musical concerts, in all cultural activities. And that is what you know, Minister, has been proven last summer in that short period of time that these rules have worked, of course, with respect to distances and the application of health protocols. Of course, the exact same rules can also be applied to the courses of artistic schools. We also asked in our written question what you would do with the special purpose allowance. Will you stop it? Would you cut it for some who deserve it? Because this is already happening, as I will say below. You know, Minister, there have been workers who have been in work for over a year without any income and others are in employment from here and there to survive. What can they do? There are low-income professionals who, when cultural spaces open, will have to pay accumulated debts, taxes, municipal fees. And you come, that is, your government, and you cut off the special purpose compensation, both Genarris and February, to many of these beneficiaries, because you consider them late, he says, since they made their request after the 10th of January. But who is the principal here, Mr President? Is the main issue of protecting the income and the survival of these people or bureaucratic pretexts? In all this, of course, there are other examples of writing by the government about the general working landscape in the field of culture. The Organisation of the Hellenic Capital of Culture 2023 provides for an obligation for the artist to give his consent for possible intervention in the event that this is chosen. In the name of the pandemic, relative rights for live streaming are not attributed and this is what the National Theatre does itself, the body supervising your Ministry. Corresponding to the contracts of musicians at the ERT, but also to private television stations - alas! - there are no related rights for musicians and performers. If we go to the production of the television series, producers impose a mandatory fortnight-old quarantine without remuneration or suspension of work if some of the workers get sick. In rehearsals that have already begun for summer production, they are carried out without remuneration and without any control over compliance with the health protocols. Of course, as you can see, and as it makes sense to think about each of us, it is certain that, when the cultural sites open, when they open up, and we say this is done immediately, it will unfortunately not be possible for those who worked in 2019 to return to work. At the same time, of course, more than three thousand drama school students are at risk of losing a whole year. Also, many dance schools, theatre, visual workshops, artistic education structures are on the limit of closing and of course the owners of these, small, usually, schools have to lose their income. Not to mention, of course, you are not the one responsible, but it is your government to demolition artistic education from the public high school. In a few days, an appeal shall be brought to the Council of State. They are very reasonable and you must treat them differently, Minister, and you in your Ministry and in the Ministry of Labour and not by sending police forces to surround the workers of artists, musicians, actors and all those who fight and claim their rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr. Delis. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u42	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Delis, I will be very specific and very clear and answer your questions again. You started asking when culture would open. You know very well that this is not a matter on which each Ministry is acting, nor is there a health committee residing in every ministry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u43	When do you propose?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u44	The procedure is that each Ministry is proposing a number of proposals and measures for its area of competence, it is convened with the Committee on Logistics and it decides. In this process, believe me, I am present on a weekly basis, especially on the subject of artistic education. Also, believe me again that I make best practices from foreign countries, measurements from laboratories and universities in relation to the transmission of the virus to cultural sites. And, as I said to you, precisely because we know how the model of culture works, what you say, that it takes a year to prepare, that many times it is also co-productions with abroad, contracts must be made, because it is a process that is not done from one moment to another, we have just asked for a time horizon. In fact, what we have said is to identify the date of gradual opening up of culture to that of tourism. We are talking at least in the first phase about open spaces, about open spaces - for obvious reasons - as we did last summer, at short distances, at reduced rates of completeness, while at the same time, at the same time, there will be other measures that we have, such as subsidising the vacancies, precisely to cover the pandemic's financial void. So we see a combination on the part of the Ministry of Culture of health and economic measures, so that the model of the operation of culture can be sustainable. In relation to the artistic schools, you may have seen that I had also sent an open letter to the schools, students, schoolgirls, owners. We recognize the issues. We're in touch with both the students and the owners again with the doctors. Our intention is to open up as soon as possible, as soon as the Committee on Logistics allows and with any further measures it imposes. If he wants to impose self-test, for example, we are able to take care of this piece. On the subject of the special-purpose allowance, as I have said, the CSR will now be signed for March, so payments will continue and payments will be made from January to February at the moment. I would also like to tell you this about what you said, namely that there were some people left outside: this money for the special purpose allowance is the money of Greek citizens and taxpayers. The Ministry of Labour, which manages this project, therefore has every right to perform sample checks and to verify whether the people who have been registered with the minimum of the conditions - we are talking about the minimum of the minimum conditions, we are talking about minimum marks - have even one sign. I think we should have a check and a sample check has been carried out. One category came up, and that is what has happened. There it has been frozen only for a small part of the registered issues. Otherwise, the rest of the payments are made normally, there is no such matter. With regard to the related rights you said: We were the first to pass strict laws, we incorporated the directive with dinamic blocking and live blocking, precisely to protect related rights. We are the ones who made preconditions for the theatre, dance and other arts, paying for all rights, whether they're spiritually related. We are also the ones who have signed the collective agreement of the Association of Greek Actors and care for live streaming with the National Theatre and the State Theatre of Northern Greece. After eight years, the administration of the Lyric Tent discusses with workers for a collective contract of work. So you see that all goes on. We are also the only ones who have taken care of and recognised professional categories of the cultural sector, which have been invisible for all these years, such as show technicians, and we have resolved a consistent request for the years of the STAZO. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] Also - and I close with that - about what you say about rehearsals you are right. And that is where we have also made sure that in our own YAA, we have said that rehearsals should be rewarded. Generally speaking, we believe that, even where we are not the institutions, we must work with the Ministry of Labour, say, and with the Ministry of Finance and find solutions, precisely to shield the industry and its professionals. That is something we will continue to do. As I told you in my prototype, you will soon see a number of measures that go exactly in that direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, too, Minister. We are entering the debate on the next question. It is the third with number 690/12-04-2021 topical question from the First Vice-President of the Parliament, MP Arcadias of the Change Movement Mr. Odyssea Konstantinopoulos to the Minister for Development and Food, on the subject: "In despair the farmers of Arcadia, due to the extensive damage to crops from a strong glacier. Direct recording of losses and income support measures’. The Minister for Rural Development and Food will answer Mr. Lebanese cave. Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, Minister, you will have, I think, been informed that in Arcadia in the last few days there has been an extreme phenomenon, an ice-cream, and the damage has been almost too large throughout Arcadia, and especially in the Lefkadium around Tripoli. Pears, apples, cherry, tonsils, chestnuts, early horticultural, vines were all destroyed. I think today is your Undersecretary there, and he will be able to see the situation himself. However, what has increased the concern of farmers very much is the serious losses from the frost. It's a permanent problem, whether it's SYRIZA or it's New Democracy. Local ELGA there, the head, creates them an insecurity and tells them "you know, children, some of them will go from de minimis". You understand what that means. Indeed, he ignores the seriousness of the phenomenon, ignores - and I hope you will not ignore it - the logic with which in other regions, such as Thessaly, they have gone through the budget and farmers have paid premiums. So, to be quite clear, I would like to tell you that for the next few years there have been some announcements. However, there will be issues relating to these reports on the damage. For example, in the case of apples, which have been completely destroyed, there have been no announcements, and there have been for the rest. If they go through de minimis, they're destroyed. Producers have been destroyed. You know that, too. If we need a minor amendment to the regulation, that must be done to move forward. Second, what about the browns? Thirdly, when all this is destroyed, Minister, you understand that beekeepers, for example, because there is no flowering, are in a very difficult situation. So I ask you: will there be any other announcements? Will it be for apples, chestnuts and beekeepers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u47	Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr President. On the occasion of your question, and I would like to thank you, Mr Vice-President of the House, for the timely question, but also for the opportunity to speak from the sacred Step of the House, fifty-four years after the opening day of April 21, 1967, when the democratic city was destroyed, when the legitimate Prime Minister of the country was arrested, when the parliamentary parties and democracy itself were chased, that is, fifty-four years after the day a fascist regime deprived itself of freedom. Especially this year, when we celebrate the two hundred years of vindication even at the price of the life of our freedom, it is important to remember the older ones and learn from the younger ones. I would therefore like to thank and pay tribute to all the women and men who have been chased, tortured, imprisoned and exiled because they have fought against the junta in claiming the freedom of all of us. I would once again like to condemn any fascist, anti-democratic and terrorist action against freedom, the rule of law, security, the social cohesion of citizens in our state and nation. I believe deep - and let me say this once again, Mr President - that we must all each other every day, because we all have a common front - I hope - in this Chamber that we can fight and preserve our democracy every day. The greatest enemy of democracy nowadays is populism. So the day-to-day fight against populism is also a day-to-day fight for democracy. Thank you for giving me the opportunity to say these words here today with great emotion, Mr Constantinople, and to give you an answer on the important question concerning the region of Arcadia, but unfortunately it also concerns many other regions of the country from western and central Macedonia, Thessaly, other regions of the Peloponnese and Central Greece. From the outset, the whole of the government has been very sensitive to the problem that has arisen. ELGA auditors immediately came out in all areas and made first surveillance. The Prime Minister, accompanied by the speaker, was in the fields of the Peloponnese, Nemea, next to you, last Saturday and we saw the disasters closely, we talked with producers, geoponets and members of the government. He was there, and the district officer Peloponnese was there. Today, as you said a moment ago, the Deputy Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr Economou, who will also be able to see what you have told us here. We - I have had the opportunity to say this again on Monday, here in this Chamber - want to assure once again that there will be universal care on the part of the state, in order to deal with this phenomenon, namely what the frost has brought to our producers. Already on Monday morning we held a meeting with the Ministry of Finance and the leadership of ELGA in order to map the next steps to address this situation, which, as you can see, has a great cost that escapes from the ELGA budget as normal. The steps we are going to take are facts. This glacier is described as an extreme weather phenomenon, unique in our country, and state aid, whatever it may need, will be given to ELGA to cover them with legality, justice and efficiency all those affected. That's what I think answers your question. The purpose of the State Mechanism is to ensure timely and fair footprints of the damage. The ELGA workshops will be on the ground again in all the fields in the country affected by the frost in the second fortnight of May, that is, when the trees are plucking and we will be able to capture the real data. And as far as your county, Arcadia, so far what we are seeing is that there have been a hundred fifty announcements and a thousand statements have been made. In order to be able to strengthen ELGA’s potential, an additional 15 geotechnics has been intaken to you, in total of a hundred forty-six geotechnics recruited exceptionally from the relevant ELGA list and a request has been sent for even more geoponics to the ASEP, so that we can record the total damage, wherever they occur. In this context, our aim is to make a substantial record and to avoid any real damage, which will not be compensated. And I say this - and here we need your assistance - so that they do not infiltrate skilled people, as is many times the case, and they deprive some real beneficiaries of the money they pay. I also point out that this is all happening within a very difficult and tight financial framework, which we must all respect. Finally, because this glacier has not only hit these areas that I mentioned in Greece, Mr Vice-President, but also hit other southern countries in the south of Europe and France, I have already been in contact with my counterpart ministers in the other countries and we have a teleconferencing conference together, so that next week we can put this issue to the Council of Ministers. I have already sent letters to the European Union, so that we can deal with European coverage, I hope, on this matter. From the outset we have announced that we will be as government next to every citizen, next to every producer, when needed. In this context, you have asked your written question - you did not say it today, but I would like to take the opportunity to say it - that climate change has indeed affected - and we have constantly seen this in recent months, in recent weeks - and agricultural production. There has been no substantial advance in our country, so that the Ministry of Rural Development and Food can deal with this phenomenon as a whole, but also with the ELGA in particular, in order to be able to cope with the greatest extent of damage, which is due to the effects of climate change. We have cooperation with the World Bank and we are waiting for the printing of a study that it will do on this issue. We have a study in our hands and it reflects reality. And we have created, with the participation of the leadership of ELGA, a working group, which in the next few months will capture a proposal on how we can see the functioning of ELGA again and modernise it. This is a painful, difficult process, which will obviously enter public consultation. There we would also like the proposals from all parties and, of course, from farmers and trade union representatives, so that we can shape the conditions of an ELGA which is even more effective in tackling this phenomenon, which will be close to us for many years and is not just about our homeland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, too, Minister. I Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Odysseus Constantinople, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u50	I'll go to the critical questions right away, because the point is we don't waste time. So I ask you to explain it to us: When you say that they will be paid globally, what do you mean? You mean an announcement should be made about apples and chestnuts. There's no announcement, Minister. So I ask directly: will there be an announcement about apples and browns? Secondly, will there be support for beekeepers who have suffered since the frost and the end of flowering? Two questions. Third question. When will the compensation be paid? Why don't we use, I'd say, successful practices? I want to say good for the practices in the case of the theorem 'JANOS'. It was a proper approach and a direct one. So, after we did it in Thessaly, we can do it in other areas. When will it be? These are the three questions. I want to tell you something generally about the culture some have in ELGA. I have dealt with this in recent years both with the previous government and with everyone. What I want to tell you is that we must not lose our minds. And what's the logic? That we are living up to the phenomena of climate change, which we have to deal with. Unfortunately for all of us, for our country, we have not tackled these phenomena. We can deal with these. We must, however, support farmers through European programmes too, so that we can deal with them. Otherwise, we will always be in the unpleasant position of coming here asking for money from the fund. However, at this difficult time when farmers have kept production alive in adverse conditions, their production has been greatly reduced, due to the reduction of tourism and many others, at this stage if we do not support them directly, these people are incapable of going ahead and, in fact, to be honest, they will abandon it. So, Minister, three are the questions: First, when are we gonna pay? Will we use JANOS practices? Second, is there going to be an announcement of apples and chestnuts? Thirdly, what do we do with beekeeping? Unfortunately, after this extreme phenomenon of ice cream, there is no flowering and again these people must support their production, bees and their work. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u52	I understand from the abstraction of your speech about how to deal with the phenomenon of climate change in agriculture that we will have you in this sincere and unavoidable effort. Because, as we all understand, in order to do what you are saying, we need to find new resources to strengthen the ELGA, outside the logic of its support from the state budget. I think the changes that have been made and the household in ELGA is a security for our farmers. This year, all allowances for 2020 will be paid for the first time and 100%, which was not the case in previous years. Also, as you said, in other instances of disasters in recent months intervention and payments have been immediate. I would like once again to draw the attention of all of us to the fact that the 'JANOS' case is distinct from this case. There we had a total disaster, which also concerned facilities, which also concerned machinery. Here we have another spectacular and shocking phenomenon, of course, which has affected production. It's two different things. Nevertheless, as the Prime Minister said, as I said before, the state will be there and will do what it has to do so that it can compensate our producers in good time and fair time. We'll probably have to go out of the regulation because of a flowering stage. ELGA, as you know, has these strange regulations with the flowering stages we have all been monitoring and wondering in recent years. But they do exist. So we will do our utmost to get out of the regulation where there are actual damages that the auditors will be able to produce in the second fortnight of May, as I told you. I would like to ask you, not personally, but everyone who hears us today, to escape from excesses. If there are losses of production and by extension of income to producers from whom you mentioned, we will see them with the same sensitivity and the same eye as the others, covered by the ELGA. Let us not now go into cases when we do not yet know what problems have arisen in their crops. We're gonna be here, though, and we're gonna do this job all over the next period. As far as time is concerned, most of the trees that have been beaten, as you know, would now be robbed, that is, at the end of the next month. Slowly the crop would come out and sell the fruit in the summer. So we have the time at the moment to plan the payments properly and to be next to the producers, to strengthen them as we should, as we have done as a government and as an ELG in the past months and in other disasters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, too, Minister. The first question under number 692/14-2021 of the New Democracy MP, Dionysia - Theodoras Agerinopoulou, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: ‘Support of registered sports clubs in the Register of Sport Associations and after 10 December 2020, will be discussed now.’ The Secretary of State for Culture and Sport will answer Mr. Leuteris Aygeakis. Mrs Agrinopoulou, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u54	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Minister, I would like to thank you very much for the availability to Parliament of an issue that touches many sports clubs in the country. First of all, I would like to congratulate you on the fact that, with your guidance, the General Secretariat of Sports for the first time set up the Registry of Sports Unions. This register is the first official record of all legally operating amateur unions in our country. Having laid the foundations for the resolution of the sport sector, the government, for the first time after many years and a significant grant of EUR 12 million for amateur sports clubs and by December 10, 2020, some three thousand four hundred clubs throughout the country were actually entered into the register and they were already paid, as far as we are concerned, compensation of EUR 9,672,000 and, indeed, with absolute transparency. However, several unions were signed after the end of this time limit. It would be a wish if they could also receive financial support, as those who are active in the sporting area have carried out a long-term suspension of their work because of the pandemic caused by COVID -19. Also, as I consider the transparency and organisation brought by the Registry of Sports Associations a success and an effective demonstration of good governance, I would like to ask you to present to us the planning of the Ministry in relation to newly introduced registers that will not only organise and place on new bases in the field of sport, but will also preserve the rights of athletes and athletes. Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u55	Minister, please, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u56	Thank you very much, Mr President. My dear colleague, your question today offers the opportunity to refer to the revolution of self-evident. Because this is our sports reform. It is the reform of self-evident, which should have been done years ago by many others before us. I consider it self-evident, dear Mrs. Agerinopoulou, that there should be a Registry of Sports Associations. I think it is self-evident that all the sports family should know how many sports clubs are operating properly, what struggles they are developing and cultivating and, of course, who are the coaches working and practicing our children in the clubs. I consider it self-evident that unions should operate under the conditions laid down by the law and not, of course, the law should be made in the measures of each federation and any federation. Unfortunately, in Greece of the 21st century many of them are considered unrealistic. Last April, just a year ago, we decided to include sport in support measures from the consequences of the pandemic. So I asked the federations about the number of their unions. I have a few answers, and most federations, Mr President, have given me the wrong numbers. Too big numbers. The point is, nobody knew or was hiding the truth. It's a disgrace and opacity everywhere. So we do the self-evident thing. We decided to house the sports landscape, put order, always through transparent procedures, in a semi-legality regime in sports clubs. With our sports reform we make the self-evident, for the first time operating a Registry of Amateur Sports Associations. In other words, the government of Mitsotakis had to come along to do so. Not only because the state now knows, not only because we will have the right to direct financial support from the state, but also because all active and legitimate unions will now have the right to vote, as in the elections of the forty-five federations that have taken place. There are four more left to take place in the next period. So we connected the record to the antiquities. They could have had the right to elect only the active and legitimate amateur unions in our country. It must be self-evident to support amateur sport in practice, giving direct subsidies not only 12, but 13,5 million, for which I will be telling details afterwards. At the same time, we ensured that the Register of Specially Recognised Sports Associations is kept. When we introduced the register, we heard very strong criticism in this Chamber. But you remember well that he didn't sweat our ears, because we believe in what we're doing, because we know we're doing the right thing for the many, not the few, who most of them are, and they're leaving the feds. The best answer came from clubs themselves, true unions, who want to be lawful and to develop sports that serve much love. These are more than five thousand in the first phase. We said we'd reopen the register as soon as the election archaeology is completed. In my dentistry, I will also have a relevant communication, which I am sure will give pleasure to many people who are watching us right now. At the same time, however, I would like to inform you that the Registry of Sports Facilities is moving rapidly. For the first time, the state and all of us, that is, we will know what sports facilities exist in Greece and in what state they are licensed, whether they belong to the Ministry of Sports, to the municipalities or to the regions. And here I must thank the CEDEFOP and the President of the CEDEFOP and the Mayor of Trikalons, Mr. Papastergiou, who worked together during the first Lockdown, and today with the "POLOPOS" platform, has recorded over 80% of the sports facilities throughout Greece that belong to the municipalities, plus the facilities of the Ministry, which need to know what the Ministry of Sports has, what it is, what it is, what it works, which are accessible, where it is energy, to reach a point where we have a full picture of our sports facilities. And the Coach Register follows. After the bill that we will go through after Easter, as shown by the General Secretariat of the Government that coordinates the legislative work, these provisions will also give us the right to activate the Coach's register, because this means order and households in our country's sports structure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u57	Good. Here, my colleague, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u58	Mr Minister, thank you very much for your reply. All the registries you mention about amateur sport, professional sport, coaches, and even sports facilities with the "POLOPOS" platform show the way to the transition of Greek sport to the next day. They safely lay the foundations for the future of Greek sport and Greek athletes. In this context, I would also like to thank you personally for your proposal to establish and operate in Ancient Olympia another institution, the seat of the Institute for Sport Training. It will rejuvenate the wider region of Ancient Olympia, but will also inspire the Olympic ideals of fair play and the well-being of those involved in sport. There could indeed not be a better place for the Institute of Sports Training than the countryside of the Olympic Games, Ancient Olympia. And so, in this way, with wisdom and real knowledge and love for sport, you are doing all this time and it seems. Undoubtedly, with your initiatives you are practicing your support throughout the sporting family. You support athletes and athletes, as well as workers in this area, from coaches, trainers and administrative staff, and you ensure their jobs. Even within these unprecedented health conditions of a pandemic, the government has taken care of the integration of the trade unions who have taken support measures during the lockdown. The entire sports community recognizes it. Now, if the state is able to provide financial support because of COVID -19 and the unions that completed the registration procedures after 10 December 2020, that would be very important. Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u59	Thank you too, my colleague. Here, Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u60	Thank you very much. I am going to borrow a little bit of time - as a complement to my time - from Mrs Agerinopoulou, to answer the issue that came out of question, but it is very interesting and I am referring to the Institute for Training Sports Officers. It is indeed a proposal that was launched, Mrs Agrinopoulos, by a dialogue we had a few months ago. An official proposal has come now from the Municipality of Ancient Olympia and the District Administrator Mr Farmakis. It has also been strengthened by the proposal - encouragement of other Members from your county. However, I would like to say that we have two more proposals on this issue. But the truth is, you've got a priority on semantics. After all, your prefecture, Mrs. Agerinopoulou, does not cease to be the birthplace of the Olympic Games, the Olympic idea, and this should not be overtaken. So let me tell you that the proposal is very interesting. We will have further discussions when we are more prepared to have armed, shield this organization, because we need to do something very important, something very good, something well worked and worked out in collaboration with the University of Peloponnese, with which we have already started the first seminars in the first two thousand staff of sport with a complete success, level seminars, on the one hand, and on the other, with other university research institutes in the country. Soon, then, we will also have news on this issue that you have opened. However, I return to the question that you have put to me and answer about the active and legitimate amateur unions, Mrs Agrinopoulou, and what funding they can receive. We therefore have within 2020 four thousand thirty-four amateur clubs that have successfully completed their registration and are fully legal and well-equipped in our register. Eight hundred and fifty three amateur unions had problems in supporting their applications and did not have time to "treat" them by the end of January. So it remains to be provided with a document, one last supplement, for those to be settled as well. But - hold this! - We already have a thousand fifty-four amateur unions who have already submitted a request for them to be registered in the register. Despite the reactions to the beginning, despite what has been heard in this Chamber, at last, solitary sport is against all these great words and the hard criticism that we have received from all the parties in anti-population. In the second phase of economic aid, which will begin in April, in the next few days I hope - God first! - 3,596 000 euros will be paid in a thousand four hundred unions, and I would like to apologize for the short delay, because it should have been a long time before that money has been paid. There was a business delay. But everything will be done properly and will not lose one - not one union - the money that we are committed to giving, when we have already given EUR 9.672 000 to three thousand four hundred eight unions. In simple terms, EUR 13 268 000 will be given in the second phase to four thousand eight hundred and eleven unions with absolute transparency and, of course, with scrutiny of services. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now implementing the procedures for amateur clubs that did not complete the 2020 processes. And I would like to make it clear here that the associations registered in the electronic register in the year 2020 are obliged to update the required data by 31 August 2021. And I am delighted to inform you, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, that the relevant ministerial decision was published yesterday in the Official Journal of the Government, and from now on the platform that can accept new applications for the registration of new unions. And they can all unions - all unions! - without any discrimination, to initiate the procedure for submitting their applications. This Ministerial Decision regulates all the themes and details of the application for registration of a sports club with special athletic recognition in our Electronic Register and for updating the data of the already registered sports clubs I mentioned before. From now on, the platform operates, and we call on all associations to participate in this great effort, the great reform effort, which has produced results, 'a positive product' - in in introductory form at all times - for the sporting family. We support sport, we support healthy sport, we support a strong, powerful sports structure, which day-to-day is built with the effort of all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, too, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed. Before entering the legislative work, according to the agenda, there will be a three-minute interruption.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u62	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘State aid to enterprises and non-profit-making bodies for natural disasters, urgent arrangements for support of the economy, supplementary State budget and pension regulation’. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 15 April 2021 to discuss the draft law at a single sitting in principle, on articles and amendments. With regard to the organisation of the debate, it is naturally proposed that the rapporteurs, the special speakers and the parliamentary representatives should be involved, as well as a one-sided circle comprising one speaker from each parliamentary group, and finally a twelve-member circle of speakers with the following proportion: five from New Democracy, three from SYRIZA and one colleague from the other four parliamentary groups. A teleconferencing service shall also be proposed for a twelve-aisled circle of speakers with the same ratio. The name of the speaker has already been assigned by the Parliamentary Groups by letters. I appreciate having this House's agreement. Ladies and gentlemen, before I give Mr Amanatidis the floor, I would like to make two announcements to this House. The Ministers of Finance, Development and Investment, Civil Protection, Labour and Social Affairs, Justice, Home Affairs and State, as well as the Deputy Minister of Finance, submitted a draft law on 20.4.2021: ‘Integration of Directive (EU) 2019/878 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2019 amending Directive 2013/36/EU, as regards exempted entities, financial holding companies, mixed financial holding companies, remuneration, measures and supervision measures and capital conservation measures (L 150), incorporation of Directive (EU) 2019/879 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2019 amending Directive 2014/59/EU on the capacity to absorb losses and recapitalisation of credit institutions and investment firms and Directive 98/26/EC (L 150), by amending Article 2 of the n. Regulation (EC) No 4335/2015, and other emergency provisions.’ Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take note of the fact that the Intergroup of Parliamentary Parliamentary Committee on the Development of Thrace, set up on 24-7-2020, in accordance with Rules 44 and 45 of the Rules of Procedure of the House and for which the House has set a deadline for submitting its report on 28 April 2021, is calling, by unanimous decision, for an extension of its operation until 28 September 2021. Does the House agree that the report should be extended until 28 September 2021?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u63	The House unanimously agrees to extend the report to that effect until 28 September 2021. The new Republic's rapporteur, George Amanatidis, now speaks on the bill for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u64	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, before presenting the provisions of the bill, you will allow me to set the broader framework within which the government moves, to refer to the Government's initiatives on issues relating to the draft law. First of all, at policy level, there are three commitments made by the Prime Minister of the country, Mr Mitsotakis, one of which is the liberation, which all the wings agree. But some disagree on its timetable. The second initiative, which is also under way, is the use of RES up to 60% by 2030. And the third is the ban on certain disposable plastics after July 2021. At the economic level now, the establishment, the better organisation and operation of the "ITIS ANTI-DUMP" programme enables projects related to the draft law which we are now debating, such as flooding, watering, environmental protection projects. For this reason, the signing of the loan contract with the European Investment Bank of approximately 875m euros is important in order to provide sufficient funding for both the "ITIS ANITIS" programme and the "ELECTRA" programme of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy, since the "TIRITIS ANTI-DUMP" is implemented with the prompt Ministry of the Interior. At operational level, we are all aware of the government's initiative, which was very right, for the reorganisation of civil protection, and it is already a law, No.4622/2020, and also for the development of concrete action plans to address the challenges of climate change, which are heard in the name of 'DARDANOS' and 'ORALOS'. I'm coming to today's bill. In Articles 1 to 24 there are clear forecasts and, on this basis, we have the following. There's a finding. Unfortunately, in our country - and it is also the cause of the provisions of the draft law - we are following events on many issues. This is how it is done on the issue of disasters by natural disasters. We lived the earthquakes in Thessaly, centred on Elassona, the catastrophic damage of the Mediterranean Cyclone "Janu" to Carditsa, Kefalonia and Crete and the floods that took place in Evros and Rhodope. There's also an admission. Because climate change manifests itself and has consequences much faster - it makes faster circles - we should create conditions not only of prediction, but also of tackling the consequences of their impact as quickly as possible. That sounds like the following question. Is there a need for today's arrangement with the draft law? Does the existing institutional framework not suffice? First of all, let us say that there is no preventive mechanism in place, especially with regard to financing. There is 'legislative inflation' and, indeed, there are provisions which, as the explanatory statement says, relate to seven different legislative frameworks on the same subject and a secondary framework that applies them is also understood. There is also a large number of stakeholders, where in coordination issues everyone is co-responsible and no one is responsible. There is a great deal of bureaucracy, both for the printing and for the return of the sums that those who are entitled to harm. These are, therefore, those who cannot be coordinated in the way already provided for in the Ministries. We have to do something about it. The delays in the payment of compensation, too, are very great. That's two, three to five years. It is something he must not experience, who has already suffered damage to his property, that can even be found in his home. So far there has been a lack of cooperation between the public and private sectors. There is an explicit provision in the draft law which provides for this, especially in the field of financing. Of course, similar actions are also being taken in other states, particularly in Germany, from which we must draw - and we have already drawn the examples of such efforts in this draft law. This draft law therefore attempts to reorganise and strengthen the institutional framework in the field of state aid, in the fields of compensation from the natural disasters. The objectives, short-term and long-term, as described in the explanatory statement, are clear and I will not mention them for short-term reasons. But how does the legislative initiative deal with problems and malfunctions? First of all, a coordination mechanism is being set up, which has been lacking and efforts have been made since the event took place. Thus, we will have a better duplicate of disasters and an immediate payment of damages. Now outlining this mechanism, I can tell you that it has the Government Aid Committee, the State Aid Directorate, the State Aid Fund etc. on the pyramid. Going down to a level below, we have the Vice-President who defines the Regional Coordinator, we have the working groups that testify to the damage that arises from theory. By going down to a level below, in the municipalities, a similar organisation occurs when there are either major events or systemic events. Finally, it is the lower level, which is the beneficiaries, the ones described by the law. Thus, the draft law is a product of holistic design and has management bodies, levels of administration, responsibilities, procedures and an interface system. Most importantly, however, it is distinguished by two things: one is funding and the other is distinct roles. In particular now, in relation to the draft law, we can observe seven main axes. Firstly, there is a coherent framework for the grant. The coordination procedures, which we have said earlier, are inadequate. Specialised structures are being created to serve this strategy, so that it does not remain a wish. Thus, the Governmental Committee on State Aid is set up, which is a national coordinator in these matters. It defines the Regional Coordinator of State Aid. State Aid Committees are being set up in the regions, one in each regional section, composed of representatives, as is also laid down in the law. The State Aid Directorate is provided for in the Ministry of Finance, the General Secretariat of Economic Policy. The scope of the beneficiaries is widened, including farmers by main occupation, but also farmers, who are not primarily farmers, as well as fishermen. This process is being voted on in order to have historical memory and to be able to produce statistics and to make rapid management. Incentives shall be provided for private insurance. Provision is made for the priority payment of compensation to undertakings with an AIFM or to families with a disability, specific problems. There is also provision for first aid - very important - and, respectively, for the payment of the advance. This is then, of course, offset by the sums due. Are the conditions for the participation of local communities, for the mobilisation of local societies through the State Aid Fund, which it is doing? It shall draw up an annual report, which shall be sent, inter alia, to the President of the Parliament and to the relevant Ministries. A control procedure is provided for. It is explicitly regulated and it is foreseen that the payment of State aid to companies and legal persons of a non-profit character, after natural disasters, is tax-free, inconsistent and so on. The National Register of State Aid Commissioners shall be established, including the bodies from which the members come. The second part is Articles 25 to 29. Article 25 provides that farmers shall not pay a trade fee for the financial year 2019 and 2020 by main occupation and coastal fishermen, due to the consequences of COVID -19. In addition, Article 28 provides for increased special-purpose compensation for enterprises - very important - which have either been closed off by a State mandate or been closed down because the circumstances have led to their decisions in this direction. There is a specific arrangement on this issue, identified SMR, the main or secondary, depending on where the main revenues are derived. This special-purpose compensation will therefore be paid for April and is not related - which is very important - to the fall in turnover. Article 30 provides for the regulation to increase State budget appropriations, in order to increase the budget by EUR 3 billion, to be able to cover entrepreneurship and society support needs, needs already identified or likely to arise in the next period. There is also a very important pension arrangement in Article 31. Since under the provisions of the Insurance Act, Law No.4387/2016, the thresholds were abolished, there was a problem for who are beneficiaries of the transfer of pensions to members of the National Resistance militant family and for scholars and artists respectively. By decision of the Court of Auditors, this provision, because it provides for the most favourable treatment, is deemed to be in the interests of the citizens and therefore does not raise any question of its question. Now let me - and as long as time permits - mention some key points from the Ministry of Finance's amendment with a general number of 855 and a specialist of 141. First, by Article 1 thereof, the full exemption from the obligation to pay a rent is extended to undertakings which have been closed by order of a State authority or are financially affected by the pandemic for April. Nor do all those fines relating to non-compliance with distances, whether in persons or in undertakings, since the provision is that it is not a fixed measure and that is why this arrangement is being made. With Article 4, it is also possible for those who have immobilised their private car or motorbike to operate them by paying the traffic charges for the months for which they will be using them. With Article 7 there is an important regulation concerning the commanders who were within ten thousand nineteen - if I remember correctly - public buildings and facilities that had been transferred to the WIDD. What's going on now? It is possible for some twelve to fifteen similar buildings, which exist and belong to the Ministry of Finance - because in the same buildings, in most cases, public sector services were also hosted by other ministries and the Ministry of Justice - to be transferred to the regions at their request. First of all, the request is submitted to the Land Office of the respective county and is then transferred to the Ministry of Finance in order to adopt the Minister's decision on the concession of these buildings. I am well aware of that, because two of the twelve are in western Macedonia. It is Kastorias Headquarters and Kosanis Headquarters, which, with constant nuisances and requests, called for them to be transferred to a co-financed programme to improve the facilities and save resources for heating and air conditioning. It is therefore a very important regulation. I believe that this regulation will also have a follow-up to cover similar buildings with a public interest purpose. As such, one can mention examples from its region, which are necessary, in order to improve resources and mobilise economic and social actors in each region. Article 10 of the same amendment by the Ministry of Finance also provides for something very important, which is the suspension of the auctions, which has so far become ad hoc, depending on the problem he has had every time. This regulation therefore deals with the need for immediate relief of natural and legal persons and legal entities which have proved to be affected by theory. That is to say, the exceptional measure of the suspension of any act of enforcement on movable or immovable property, of course, with the exception of maintenance requirements, since the age of the child is under the protection of the State. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, of course, a legislative initiative should solve problems, deal with malfunctions, contribute to development and open up prospects. This legislative initiative covers these conditions and conditions and, above all, solves a problem for decades. With the new holistic framework, the state stands beside those affected by natural phenomena, restores the sense of the security and trust of citizens to the state. Why? Because resources and resources are going to be made more quickly and it strengthens the conditions for the return of regions affected by natural disasters every time in the normality of society and of the economy. With these considerations it goes without saying that there are no reasons why this draft law should not be supported. I fully support it, and I urge you to do the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u65	The general rapporteur of SYRIZA, Mr Vassilis Kokkalis, will now be given the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I enter the essence of the bill, I would like to say two words on account of today's day, which is indeed a black moment for modern political history. The stake must be the loss of rights not to become normal. The loss of rights, whether it is a right to work or another kind of individual right, should not become a habit. And that is the duty of all of us and above all the government. Ladies and gentlemen, the need to create an institutional framework for the protection of the natural persons affected cannot be said 'no'. But it cannot say 'yes' to a bill which does not meet these needs, the needs of a comprehensive protection of the naturally affected. It cannot say 'yes', because this bill is absent from the government's basic core, the word 'household', is missing. We heard Mr. Staikora at the last meeting the day before, mentioning the figures given because of "Janu" throughout Greece, but also the earthquakes. We don't question them, make it clear. Unfortunately, however, we are confirmed. I'm afraid so. As we have made proposals, you have accepted them. But you didn't make a bigger step. The households are absent from the bill. I will produce in the Minutes, gentlemen of the government, a letter from the village of Mesochori Elassonas, which Mesochori is just above the earthquake break. That's where the community says? 'The Community Council of Mesochori expresses its dissatisfaction with the unjustified delay for EUR 600. In addition, there is an unjustified delay for households.’ In other words, fifty days after the earthquake, nothing specific has been done about the restoration of households, about the sustainability of households. He said: 'They are crumbs?' Do you want to find another word? The EUR 600 - still not everyone - what else could it be? Let's have a honest conversation. What else could it be for people, families who stay in a container, if they're not crumbs? You guys find another word. In this bill there is no basic core, the word 'household', the natural persons, the people who live in the containers. I'm on it. It cannot say "yes" to a bill when the most basic, most extensive damage to primary production is missing. Who's that? The deterioration in soil fertility. I'm going to start at Evro. You know that the phenomenon of river flooding is very common there and now the soils in Evros have, unfortunately, acquired a permanent disability. Really, does the Recovery Fund not anticipate such actions, studies? We're coming down to Thessaly. Indicative of ignorance at the time of the government is the fact that, in the relevant questions submitted by Members on soil fertility and how these lands will be restored, no Minister has so far given a clear answer. Not even a word. They all refer to the compensation paid to the municipalities. The municipalities have nothing to do with the restoration to soil fertility. It is therefore lacking, after a fundamental damage is done by the occurrence of the natural disaster, to restore the fertility of the territories. I'm on it. No one can say - and it is not easy to say - 'yes' when in businesses, which is the central title of the bill - it seems from that it is evident from the title - that households are absent and that natural persons are in general absent. For businesses what is this new - tell us, may we have been wrong - in relation to the provision of the 1997 law you bring? The most basic thing is not defined in the bill: what percentage will the damage be covered? We didn't tell you the time. Do you consider the businesspeople's request excessive for 100% of their damage? You admitted - it also emerges from the documents - that you have so far given 20%. Question rhetoric: Is it to be proud of 20%? Not a word will ever be given the rest. The fact that it should be stated in the bill that the damage will be restored to 100% or 80% do you consider it excessive? Do you consider it unfounded? Isn't that right? And today, at the moment we're talking, only 20% of the damage has been given. Would you like, gentlemen of the government and the citizens to do the same with their tax obligations? Would you like to? Is that how the state's confidence in the citizen is built? Tell you the citizens, these businessmen who only got 20%, the individual, when they are paying 'I don't have, Mr Besyropole, now take 10% and later'. That's how you do it. So you consider this criticism that we're doing to you that she's badly trusted? What has changed in business? The deposit has changed. Will the level of the damage be restored, yes or no, and to what percentage? You leave it all in ministerial decisions. I'm on it. It is difficult to say 'yes' when in the same bill, just under the article providing for grants by companies, you refer to the compensation of companies insured in private insurance companies. It's the fifth time I've asked. Please tell me the feasibility. Is private insurance mobilisation or are you giving the signal "secure private companies, why me, as a state, will you only get 20% or not?" It is the sixth time I ask: What is the incentive to get into a separate article and say that the damage from the state will be covered in the difference from the private insurance company. It is difficult to say 'yes' because it does not respond to the need for overall protection of the affected, when at the same time making facilitation to the owners of clinical trials, there is no national health system, medical and nursing staff. This gives us the right to say that you do not pursue a social policy. The Minister, Mr Staikoras, said the day before yesterday in committee: 'Where did you see the protests?' You're talking to mayors. Here to remind me of a chart of the General Secretariat of the Ministry of Finance. It's a good painting. This here, if it was also the title of the bill and not just the title, would be very different. It says the table: "Supporting and restoring areas affected by theory. Infrastructure, households, enterprises, primary production.’ Sit down and engage in the bill on these things, namely how to protect the household, infrastructure, business and the primary sector separately. Are we saying something paranoid? I don't think so. Are we saying something that's not true? I think it's in line with common sense. Two words I will say and present for the Practical Reports - requests from the Municipality of Farcadona and the Municipality of Meteora, asking for damages from both "Janus" and the earthquake. Indicative is that the Municipality of Meteoron - I wish it had been declared, I do not know, the request was ten days ago - it had not been declared in an emergency because of the earthquake. And I come to the amendment with a general number of 855. Indeed, it contains some positive articles. One is an officer's proposal, and it had to be embedded in the bill. It should be embedded in an event that is common sense, self-evident. When a theory occurs, all persecutions should be suspended automatically. In the end, we'll be looking for self-evident things. It's not in the bill. He's in an amendment. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Another two minutes, Mr. President. As far as rent is concerned, you do well to cover the rent. That's not good enough. Where's the plan for housing and business leases? You know very well that we will have a wave of evictions. You know very well that many workers on parole, Mr Minister, the owners refuse renting because they think they do not have a stable income. That is why we have asked you in good time for a plan to protect not general, but for those who have proved to be damaged by the pandemic, while at the same time a premium for the owners. We call for an extension of at least one year's leases, both for residential and for professional leases, to stand on his feet and for the freelance and private worker. And don't tell me that's not possible, because you've already done it - and rightly - with the tourist accommodations. You gave a forced extension to the rents of the tourist accommodation. As far as traffic charges are concerned, the regulation is in a positive direction. The proportionate payment of the traffic charges is also related to the contributions. Why would an entrepreneur pay contributions when the job did not provide it? So the request from these entrepreneurs, whether they are in retail or in the focus, is it not reasonable, is it not legal? This request was conveyed and announced by the Chief of Officer Response, the request to make the analog arrangement for the debts of the coronary. In Rule 12, I think, you are referring to something - and I am closing, Mr President - for wind parks. I will make an appeal here: there is a pointless use that you have allowed. We are all in favour of renewable energy sources, but - there is a great 'but' - in ten years we will not have farmers, we will not have farmers, we will not have people to produce. It is the greatest damage that could be done in the primary sector, ladies and gentlemen of the government. Think about it. The biggest damage! There will be no people to produce what we consume. In conclusion, we say 'yes' to the need for an organised and fair system of protection for the affected. And I think that we have proved this through our proposals to the committees which have been accepted, the proposals that have not been accepted and those which we will continue to submit. We say, however, 'no' to an incomplete, vague piece of legislation, which, in fact, is what it is doing? Repeats current provisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u67	The reason is now the special speaker of the Change Movement, Mr. George Kamine.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, almost 19.5 trillion dollars calculate the burden on global debt due to the pandemic of the World Financial Institute. It is 641 million euros that have been committed or given to restoring the consequences of "Januan" and the earthquake in Samos, according to what the Minister of Finance has said on the second reading of the bill in his speech. Of course, the most important of these natural disasters is not just economic costs or environmental costs. There are tens of our fellow people's losses, such as, for example, in Matty. The world, as we knew it, has changed: from climate change to over-intensive production to global inequalities and the unprecedented freedom to move production factors. It is this new reality that makes natural and man-made disasters more and more frequent and more intense. We see it in the current pandemic, which goes beyond the way we approached the danger a few years ago, civil protection, the resilience of our cities and countries. The Change Movement had pointed out during the debate on civil protection in this Chamber almost a year ago, the importance and the new challenges. We had backed then, when the bill was still in the form of a General Secretariat, Civil Protection, subjecting it directly to the Prime Minister. I am referring to all this, to highlight the need for the legislator to look at tomorrow and even beyond if he can, but certainly not yesterday. In the bill that we are discussing, the legislator, unfortunately, is ambiguous, giving a much closer interpretation of the disasters from which people and our land may be affected. As long as we think that, because it is limited to theories, it does not involve man-made disasters. The disaster in Matty was an anthropogenic catastrophe. Some deaf man decided to burn the dry pans in his field in July. There is also, in the definition of the theories, the term ‘ snow globes’. In Greece the avalanche is a rare phenomenon. Do we mean glaciers, heavy snowfall? Because, obviously, the term, Mr Secretary-General, is a term that you have taken from European law, the Union's law. We include the frost - why do we know how many crops have been destroyed this year by the frost - or the term'sea-stiva', which, if it refers to natural phenomena, is not so common in our country? We recognise the need to reform the institutional framework for state aid. We think it could have been better achieved with today's bill, firstly, because it has a system of multidimensional competences, which we will explain, and secondly, because it has no timelines that binds management, even to a certain extent. On the first issue, multidimensionality, civil protection is divided into three stages: prevention, treatment and rehabilitation. We believe that the shape should be uniform and should be governed by a single logic. As regards the part of the restoration, even with the proposed regulation, although the Minister in his intervention spoke of an integrated plan and a uniform procedure, in the third stage of the restoration, in other words compensation, the involvement of civil protection is maintained, compensation for natural persons from the Ministry of Infrastructure, compensation for OTAs from the Ministry of the Interior and compensation for businesses and professionals from the Ministry of Finance. In practical terms, that is to say, the number of stakeholders concerned is not reduced or the relevant provisions are drastically restricted. Of the nine existing provisions that we have found today, only one appears to be abolished. With regard to the timetables, should there not be even an indicative deadline? As you know, for the administration, the deadlines are indicative. The Minister himself in his speech to the committee referred to the damages that took even three years to be given, and in some cases were completed after the operations were closed and some were never completed. Even in the 'January', and even through an ad hoc grid much simpler procedures, what people have been collecting for the past seven months is the advance. So, when we see even in the case of the 'January', where there were - almost the other end - over-simplified procedures, there does not need to be more drastic measures and time commitments in the legislature. In the light of the Articles, and Article 3 and the interventions of the bodies, clarification was given by the Government for legislative improvements to agricultural crops and fisheries, so that there were no exclusions. As far as the opinion of the Legal Council of the State is concerned, there can be no alteration of the explanatory statement at the stage, now, of the debate on the bill in plenary - and from the outset, if I am not mistaken - so it will have to return to what the Minister has promised, at least with a circular. We have not seen any change in the issue raised by the GSE, with the representation of chambers in the regional committees. There have been reactions - and reasonable - on the part of the government, to its ineffective participation in the provisions of the bill and the Minister's reply to the National Register of State Aid Officers. We have also made reservations about the Regional Coordinator, which we have seen at some point and he is coordinated by the Vice-President responsible. The Minister has made a commitment to bring about changes. We're waiting to see them. Undoubtedly, the electronic platform, referred to in Articles 7 and 8, is the positive of the draft law. As certain points refer to dossiers and signatures, we hope that they are understood in their electronic form. Also positive is the institutional prediction of exceptional first aid in terms of height and last price of Gross Domestic Product at market prices. In Article 14, I would like to remind you that the Change Movement, in any case, had proposed the establishment of an Insurance Fund in order to shield households from the extreme weather phenomena, from the respective funds that exist in other countries. The case of Turkey, where, following the disastrous 1999 earthquake, compulsory insurance for all dwellings, with a subsidy, has been established by means of a Consolidated Natural Disaster Insurance Fund. Countries of Europe such as Switzerland, Spain and Romania have already set up mutual funds for natural disasters. That is what we propose to adapt to Greece. It does not, of course, concern this bill, because it concerns businesses and farms. I would, however, like to draw your attention, Mr Secretary, to the restoration of disasters in housing. In the case of Amendment No 855, many of its regulations are, in fact, reasonable to deal with the consequences of the pandemic, and it is obvious, to the extent that they are moving in a reasonable direction, that we will, as we always do, stand in the way of responsibility and seriousness. First of all, the government is rightly doing and providing support to businesses right now, because it is an essential condition for their survival and the thousands of jobs that may be lost. We, as a movement of change, have been clear from the first moment: in the crisis, health is the first concern and immediately after the people affected, the productive fabric of the country remains standing. But it has to be a year later, the government now needs to see how its previous measures worked and what improvements may be made. We say it because there have been a lot of complaints about the repayable advance. For example, many businesses have been out of line, especially young people, who have lost the first five cycles, even though they have been closed for months. We are now talking about special-purpose compensation. To the extent that it has a horizontal logic, we realise that it can also prove unjust and irrational. We can no longer talk about horizontal measures today, because obviously, as in every crisis, not everyone has been affected, and obviously today the state has more information and improved technological and other means, so that it can actually take smart measures and take measures in a fair manner, in proportion to the damage suffered by everyone. We should also at some point understand that debt transfers are not supportive, as it is not reasonable to ask these people for full contributions when they had been closed down for so many months. Contributions are governed by a logic as part of the revenues. Here all sectors of the economy and thousands of businesses have been closed for months, and the government's answer to these debts is 'you will pay later on in instalments'. We are shaking the idea of how small shops will be opened, business with the three and four employees, who are basically concerned with the family. When, for example, the turnover has fallen in some cases by 80%, when tourism and the return of customers will be slow and partial, how will these people open up, how will they pay the debts, not only in that period, but also in all the krone? I have tabled a question for the companies in the centre of Athens, which have suffered an 80% reduction in the turnover. Because in the center of Athens there are few dwellings. Micro-enterprises do not live by residents, mainly live by visitors, workers and tourists. The government's announcements on voucher, essentially, of tax obligations, which have been baptized as a ‘new returnee’, what will it ultimately have and on what timetable? We ask why, in less than a month's time, tourism opens and, in fact, almost all professional activities open. We agree with Article 1 of the amendment, because it is a breath for business and it is important to extend as far as possible. There are problems with delays, both for the payment of the owners but also for the beneficiaries, as we arrive at the end of April and we still do not know exactly who the SAR is entitled to. All this has to be solved a year after the epidemic begins, and the government has to resolve it. We also agree with articles such as traffic charges. However, we have reservations about the provision in Article 12. It cannot be adopted without specific documentation and consultation with environmental organisations. We demand some specific documentation from the Minister so that it can be recorded in the Minutes. We also disagree with Article 13 to replace the President of the Commission, the Legal Council of the State, with the Director-General of the Ministry of Finance, because we consider that it undermines the committee's legal training and openness. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill will be passed, with the reservations we have made. We would like it to be much more comprehensive and not to continue fragmentation of responsibilities. Nevertheless, because it introduces a streamlining process throughout the process, with our reservations, we are voting on the bill and we are awaiting further improvements in the future. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u69	Mrs Diamanto Manolakos will now take the floor on behalf of the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr President. It's April 21st today. We express our respect and honor those who have contributed to the anti-ritarian struggle, those who have been persecuted, tortured, imprisoned and exiled, have offered their lives, those who have been murdered. We are taught by popular mobilisations during the junta, which show that the labour, popular, neo-collegiate powers can react and mobilise, despite the conditions of raw violence and open terrorism, can also fight against the most negative correlation of forces. That is why the best form of honor to fighters in the anti-digit struggle is the continuation of the class struggle, intensifying the struggle for the reconstruction of the working people movement, for rights earned in the last century and being grabbed today. From now on my time begins, Mr President, and I shall start with an amendment that we are asking to withdraw. This amendment concerns ELPA, which owes seventy-seven workers, insurance companies and so on. Her only asset is rights to the Acropolis brand. The government is being amended and snatched to trade its mark. It's unacceptable. What will become of the debts to the seventy workers? No welfare! But neither was the Motor Federation asked. It is scandalous, it is unacceptable, when you refuse a private hospital qualification to save our fellow humans. Retire this article! Let's go to the bill. The great catastrophes with Janus in Karditsa, the murderous floods in Evia, the earthquakes in Samos, Larissa and other theories have shown how undisturbed the country is, after an anti-military, anti-Semitism, anti-nuclear protection is practically not there. Thus, we have disasters in infrastructure, housing, workplaces, property and a life of people's families level. The experience of major disasters promote effective measures within this bill? No, because you are applying the cost logic - the benefit of the European Union, which is criminal for the people. Such projects are not prioritised because they do not generate profits in large groups. That is why, while our country gathers more than 50% of Europe's seismic energy, there is no or even a debate on earthquake protection. And yet, the naturalities would be less disastrous if there were control programmes, prevention, strengthening civil protection and armament, that is, overall projects to protect people's lives. That is why, when the lights of publicity turn out, the great catastrophes and needs of the affected are forgotten. In Evia they are still waiting to compensate for the disasters in homes, storage facilities and auxiliary facilities that took place eight months ago. Few people took the benefits - crumbs through the municipalities, 1/3 of the affected dwellings. For the rest, they have not even taken note of them. The laws have excluded them. I mention this because the Minister was reading a list of the millions given to us in committee, but he did not tell us who they arrived and what they covered. Many professionals, whose losses exceed the one-off payment, have not yet been compensated. Especially for farmers, the disaster is great, even absolute. The flooded professionals and farmers, in fact, who have lost their income completely or partially, have not even been relieved of the water bill, as was done in the affected houses. But likewise with the earthquakes in Samos, with the dead and the disasters in Larissa and the ice in March and April. Yesterday and today farmers are on the streets for direct compensation 100% in Larissa, Pella, Elias and elsewhere. We're with them. However, disasters have a common component, not only with the current government, but also with the previous ones, SYRIZA, PASOK and others: that there are huge delays, such as the earthquake in Larissa, on critical issues of living, feeding, housing, health, vaccination and much more. The allowance of EUR 600 to EUR 6 000 for the compensation of packages promised did not all get it, but those who took it were only EUR 600. In Elassona he only got the allowance in 19%. No one in Farkadona has taken it. The flooding Cardits, Evia, the earthquakes of Samos are still waiting. Of course, they are never compensated for 100% of those affected by housing, professional housing, homes, etc. It is challenging, when large-scale construction groups which only have tolls last September have spent tens of millions of euros as compensation for for forging gains due to a quarantine traffic reduction. The government therefore comes to present this bill as a strengthening of the effectiveness of the state mechanism to meet needs and damage in the event of natural disasters. In essence, however, this is one of the same, since the details, such as the level of compensation, are a blur. Everything is deposited with authorization decisions of the Ministries. The level of compensation is obviously dependent on the budgetary strengths of the capitalist economy. It's not cleared up anywhere and it doesn't guarantee anything. Nor will the compensation rate be granted and, at what specific time, will the beneficiary survive the next day if there will be accompanying measures, such as deletion of tax debts, banks, reduction of taxation and reincorporation into tax, abolishing the trade fee, and so on, measures included in the proposal for a law tabled by the JRC to relieve the self-employed and farmers of the consequences of crisis and pandemic which the government refuses to discuss and implement. There is no mention of the need to fund projects and actions to predict and prevent natural disasters and their consequences. In the case of private insurance, cover is provided for the damage rate that does not cover the insurance contract, i.e. enter the game insurance companies. The committees shall also include individuals. It is clear that the substance of the current framework does not change with inadequate compensation and, above all, the lack of projects to prevent natural disasters. You have not included in the beneficiaries of state aid farms, beekeepers and forest cooperatives. It's unacceptable. With regard to State Aid Committees and National Staff Registers, it shows that the staff currently in existence in the regions is not enough. It remains the same, supported by private individuals on a case-by-case basis. This staff work intensively with overtime without pay and the result is limited, since not all of them have yet been compensated by the killing flood in Mandra in 2017. Even in this effort that the government says is making the framework of state aid more effective, the eye has turned on the needs of big capital. However, those most affected are the populace layers, the people's family and, of course, the small businessmen of the city and the village who often see their livelihood being destroyed and treated themselves and instantly survival problems. However, you are interested in serving groups, such as the granting to companies of renewable energy parts of the Aegean islands for a more economic installation of wind turbines. You grant not only land but also sea for their sure profitability. Go ahead and give the use, not only once - for the installation - but as long as it takes, at the expense of the environment and the use of the beach from the community as a whole. Basically, this draft law perpetuates the well-known horizontal logic of'support for all', and we say that you should prioritise the problems to the categories of entrepreneurs, otherwise this unacceptable situation will continue that we have money not enough and eventually plundered with various algae and long delays. In Karditsa there were cases of professionals who have not yet received compensation. The point is that everything, and most importantly, is referred to ministerial decisions, without express commitments that the state budget will grant the value of disasters. In this ambiguity, the ways in which they reduce in practice and these low compensations which are normally granted, such as a subsidy for the destruction of machinery and production equipment, which are given on the basis of the value of the machinery and after these have passed the depreciation ring, ultimately giving compensation for crustaceans. Although you plan to modernise the computerized recording system, we have minimum predicted organic positions, with stacks and internal movements of employees, instead of hiring all the necessary permanent staff. All in all, therefore, you cannot hide the heavy responsibilities you have, like the previous governments, on the real problem, which is no more than the state's criminal inadequacy in prevention, from the total lack of infrastructure necessary to avoid such exceptional situations and needs, at least to the extent that the Greek people have experienced them, whether we are talking about the disasters in Mandra and Matti, or about the most recent ones in Karditsa, Larissa, Samos and elsewhere. Therefore, responses to life and survival problems and a hierarchy of satisfying modern needs for all the necessary infrastructures that will raise the level of life and support the protection of the natural and structured environment are present. Proposals have made bodies such as a substantial upgrade of civil protection mechanisms, to address natural disasters and major technological accidents, with support to human resources and media, transport and traffic planning, emergency response arrangements, access to routes to escape the population. In the ‘critical’ event of direct and substantial support for the rehabilitation of the affected, direct compensation, a rapid control and damage recovery programme, especially additional measures for the unemployed, low-wage, low-retired, finding funds from the state budget, from the NSRF and the MAGP, or from cutting over the exorbitant naval costs. The obstacles to the implementation of these and many other measures are the same capitalist way of producing and managing the profitability of the large monopolies. Faced with this barbarism, the labour struggle for the transformation of society into a socialist one is the only solution. They will not control monopolies and groups economic and political life for their profits, pedaling workers, but instead the working class, self-employed, traders, crafters, scientists, bio-palers, farmers, organised within their own councils, will mobilise social wealth through a scientifically trained central planning aimed at meeting social needs and natural needs in infrastructure projects. Only centrally designed in the territory of social ownership of means of production and labour power can give a solution to the acute problems faced by workers in their lives today. In this sense we are voting against this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u71	The reason is the special speaker from the Greek Solution, Mr. Vassiliou Villardos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u72	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we will begin with a great question that has been created to us, mainly concerning SYRIZA and KINAL, from what they propose about the costs that are constantly being proposed, which are increasing even further the already huge deficits in our country, in other words, the damage that went beyond EUR 20 billion in 2020, so public debt. Do they not know that the public debt has been launched in 213,1% of GDP in 2020 according to the IMF and that Greece now owes around EUR 375 billion? EUR 375 billion is a huge sum. Do they not know that the red private debt at 243 billion - without the public debt, which should still be over 80 billion euros - lies at levels unique to world history? They don't know that our country's foreign debt is about $500 billion, so more than double our GDP? They do not know that Greece has mortgaged everything with the PSI and the third memorandum that they co-signed with New Democracy? Are they not aware that the Greeks are being seized and auctioned at degrading prices? Do they not know the miserable situation of our banking system, despite having cost us over EUR 60 billion and still cost us with the HERAKLIS programmes, with the hive-down and everything else that comes up? Don't they see what's going on with the Piraeus scandal with its share every day in the Limit Down? So what do they propose? Should the country continue to spend much more than it receives? To beg for borrowers, obviously in exchange, even if these relate to the sale of public property, the robbery of private property and the loss of further national sovereignty? Do you not mind that they will be called to pay the multiples the debts that we accumulate our children every day? Do they propose to indulge in the future generations by switching to these huge problems that our generation has created? Is such a attitude true on our part? Is she in charge? The bill now. At the first meeting of the committee we said that the government has continued to adopt post-mortem rescue measures for over a year after the pandemic was started, which the World Health Organisation recently announced is far from over. In fact, she's trying to hide her failures at all levels behind the pandemic, and she also has an excuse to be able to borrow, by continuing unreasonable waste, just so she doesn't lose her electoral clientele. We sincerely do not understand, however much we are trying to lead Greece, how much more so when all it does - except borrowing as if it is not there tomorrow - is constantly voting for bills and selectively simplifying some of the main tourist activities, while effectively deregulation them, as is done with people's markets and with industrial relations. However, the aid fund is now being introduced, and the aid to businesses, non-profit organizations and farmers is being strengthened. We also have the addition to the budget of some individual arrangements for aid to farmers and fishermen by the end of a trade, as well as arrangements for hospitals, for National Resistance pensions and for financial statements. In particular, with regard to the budget in Article 30, we have stressed several times that a young person is required to draw up a new one, since there is absolutely nothing to do with the one who has been tabled, both in terms of forecasts and its sizes. It is literally for waste, let alone, since new costs are constantly being added, when revenues are being reduced at the same time. We believe that the government has completely lost the account and we say it without any opposition, but only because of our substantiated concern for the country. Generally now, too, excessive legislative powers continue in this bill this time to the Minister of Finance with regard to the definition of important issues that should be laid down, for reasons of transparency, by means of parliamentary processing. In addition, there are suspected provisions that remove the direct or indirect cooperation of government bodies with NGOs, with non-profit organisations. We stressed here that, although the NGOs appear to have nothing to do with the government, they are actually acting suspiciously and dangerously, taking financial subsidies and, indeed, without the necessary publication for reasons of transparency. I will come to some articles now, as this is a bill with a minimum substance, which we will certainly vote against. In Article 1 we have noted that the perimeter of beneficiaries of state aid and non-profit-making agencies is expanded to cover exceptional needs and damage from natural disasters. Our question here was whether there would be a substantial state control of the needs and damage caused by natural disasters in these NGOs. In Article 2, our view is that a transparent integrated compensation scheme for companies affected by natural disasters must finally be established and a framework for the coordination of rehabilitation and support procedures for regions affected by horizontal measures. Framework doesn't have our country. Nothing else. In Article 5, non-profit-making entities will receive a grant in addition to the compensation provided for by their private insurance, in fact by decision of the Vice-President and Minister of Finance in accordance with Articles 7, 4 and 8 of the present. Well, didn't we assume any interests would be served? Article 9 sets the above limit on the amount of first aid to gross per capita income without any distinction being made between the different per capita GDP of the regions of the country which we have submitted to the Committee's minutes. Paragraph 6 states that it is sufficient to submit the application, which means that public money is paid with only one application, which we consider to be being exploited by a diligent person. Paragraph 7 gives the Minister an exaggerated power. Also, there is no insurance for the fact that the amounts will be spent for the purpose for which they were intended. For example, someone will be able to collect the money to start his business again, but use it to buy a holiday home. Article 12 stipulates that in exceptional cases where substantial and extensive losses are observed, a subsidy of no more than 50% of the subsidy will be granted to natural persons who are not primarily employed farmers, as defined in the existing legislation, but who possess farms. Shouldn't 100% really be 100% for equivalency purposes? Isn't it self-evident? So, a small farmer who has olives and works extra like a waiter in the summer must not be compensated like another farmer, possibly big? If there must be criteria, is it not right to put them in a better way? Article 14 mentions the sources of funding for the State Aid Fund, which will be from private contributions and from the budget, leaving outside the private contributions we consider to be controversial. The main issue is how much money will be based on the budget even for 2021, since there is no reference from the General Accounting Office of the State, as we are accustomed to in almost all the bills. In this case, nothing is difficult. We should simply know the average of the corresponding losses annually that have claimed compensation with elements of the last 15 years. It's simple. This is how insurance companies and too many others work. We said that the fund could be supported by part of the emergency reserve, which eventually ends elsewhere, such as in 2019 in briefing about the Prespecies or the TRAINOSE, which we sold with EUR 40 million and which we supported with EUR 750 million. We sold her 40 million and supported her with 750 million. Isn't it true the end of foolishness? However, we think it is incomprehensible to appoint the nine-member board of directors of the fund by the Minister of Finance. Will the Minister place those who want to be the only person? Where will it be controlled? By who? With regard to criteria, respect for sovereignty and control, there appears to be neither here nor in the following articles on appointments. The Ethics Guide to be adopted by a decision of the Ministers for Finance and Internal Affairs on the actions of the members of the committees, etc. It makes the procedure even more unclear. Article 18 now states that, in the case of large losses, in order for the recording to be effected quickly, additional remuneration is granted to the members of the committee for their work, by way of derogation from Article 21 of Law No.4354/2015. Why is it true? Isn't that their job? In addition, is it not unacceptable for the government to legislate constantly by way of derogation from the laws? In Article 21 we said that large-scale aid should be more thoroughly monitored. Like, for example, in the case of the fires of Elijah of the Molyviat fund, which still seek money. And we can't imagine they'll ever be found. Article 22 now states that the authorisation scheme now takes an epic dimension, after setting out a long list of authorisations to the Minister of Finance, in particular, and also to the Ministers for Development and Interior, for the management of aid. For example, it is authorised to determine the amount, the way and the conditions for payment of compensation, effectively disqualifying the substance of the law, which we find totally opposed, since we consider democracy and the rule of law to be more effective. We are sure that the Minister does not believe anything different, but simply agrees with the demands of the lenders who want to avoid parliamentary control, and does so because otherwise the country will not be able to borrow. That is, however, one of the problems of lending, and that is why we do not agree with the waste of lending. We also have the view that no one should ever borrow for consumer purposes, as it is unable to pay their debts, but only for investment. Article 25 concerns the abolition of trade tax for farmers who have completed at least five years of bookkeeping and VAT. We did not understand why this restriction should apply, especially to young farmers, especially today who need investment in the sector, among other things, to absorb overcapacity from tourism. In other words, young farmers should be supported, not excluded. In any case, the regulation provides a minimum relief in relation to the problems faced by the industry, such as the example of feed whose prices have risen sharply, more than 70% in many of them. It is unacceptable that there is neither costing here from the General Accounting Office of the State, especially since it concerns a ministry, the Ministry of Finance, which constantly blames the Civic Anti-Civilisation - quite rightly - for not quantifying the measures it proposes. We, however, with information from 2018 - which we have not had difficulty finding - have found that the cost is EUR 27.8 million. Apparently, he could find something like that in the State General Accounting Office. For extensions in general, such as in Article 26 or in amendments, they are subject to the government's'seeing and doing' tactics. So there's no point in commenting on them every time and saying the same thing. Article 28 is vague and will be specified by a decision of the Minister, stressing that - if anything - great attention is needed, because there is a lot to be said about 'part of' with repayable advances and aid for those who have appropriate acquaintances. Finally, in Article 30, concerning the addition of EUR 3 billion to the budget, we said that the sum certainly is not enough for unreasonable locks - literally unreasonable! - and the incredible government waste. To close, there are certainly solutions for a rich, multi-dimensional country with skilled citizens, such as Greece and the Greeks. There is no government that is able to seek and apply them, and that is why the Greek Solution asks for the vote of the Greeks to rule. Four years we need, as the President of the Greek Solution constantly says, four years would be enough for us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u73	We are completing the list of rapporteurs and speakers with Mr Arsenis from Mera25. The President of the Greek Solution, Mr Velopoulos, has asked for the floor and will follow the first series of four colleagues from the six who are physically present, with rotation. I read the names to be notified. Some are in the Chamber: Mr. Stamenitis, Mrs. Skoufa, Mr. Arvanitides and Mr. Logiadis. Here, Mr Arsenis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u74	Thank you very much, Mr President. Undersecretary, MPs, MPs, the government once again brings up a bill that includes the budget review, the body for the naturalities, but also the winds. We'll get them one by one. We had said from the first moment, when the 2020 budget was being discussed here, that it was in vain that this budget would be kept on paper. It is impressive that Mr Skoplakis, who presented the budget, did not appear either in the Chamber here in plenary, so far or in the committees, in order to defend how this budget was actually in vain. They bring us EUR 3 billion budget increase in this bill and at the same time, after the debate on the bill in the House, they brought another EUR 1.5 billion to another bill. But we wonder where this money is going. Do we wonder whether the EUR 1.5 billion and EUR 3 billion for the effects of the pandemic will go to those who take their homes or to those who give them EUR 56 billion from the Recovery Fund to bring these economic activities together in their hands? It should be recalled that since 1 April you have put in place the Bankruptcy Code, which specifically provides for the preservation of the homes of every citizen who owes more than EUR 30,000. They are citizens who will have to choose to seek a compromise with the lenders or find themselves in the process of confiscation of their property by the public, as you have predicted every time their property is auctioned and for three times the auction is fruitless. You have predicted that the public houses should not be left in the pockets of these people, and that they should not be cut by 1 euro in order to make a deal with creditors. Creditors have no obligation to respond to requests for compromise, no obligation not to respond, but no obligation to respond. They have the unilateral right to initiate the bankruptcy procedure for citizens, a process whereby citizens learn their bankruptcy afterward, when they cannot react and have no means of objecting in practice. And you put this whole thing on April 1st, now, in the worst moment of the crisis. From 1 April you will begin the seizures of legal persons and small businessmen and self-employed persons. For natural persons, who are citizens, not small businessmen, from June 1st, there will be auctions. On the contrary, you give the large business groups EUR 56 billion, EUR 13 billion with loans, EUR 23 billion with loans in theory from PPP operators themselves with a state guarantee from the banks, while you continue to give 12 billion to Hercules. And Mr Stournaras said that these EUR 12 billion guarantees will begin to be deducted, he will have to pay the public now. That's what Mr Stournaras announced a few days ago. Instead of suspending this incomprehensible piece of legislation, which is the 'HRAKLIS' that predicts buying the funds and banks at 6% and 7% of their value, you forbid people from buying them at the same value, even for the benefit of banks, to buy them at 10%, 20% or 30%. That's forbidden, you forbid them. Compulsory confiscation from the banks! At the same time, since the market has reached the point where it has arrived today and cannot sell these houses close to the price of their objective value, then they keep the houses and take 12 billion euros from the Greek public. Incomprehensible things! And while you are preparing to give these EUR 4.5 billion extra money to those who take people's homes, you did not bring an increase in the health budget when you had reduced the expenditure ceiling in this budget in relation to 2020 when health is in this unthinkable situation today, with the record intersected and the record intersected outside the IM. You do not give EUR 160 million, not EUR 4.5 billion, which you now give with the budget increasing again to the few entrepreneurs, not EUR 56 billion that you actually give through the Recovery Fund, not EUR 12 billion that you give through Hercules, which, if we measure all of this, will reach the end of about EUR 100 billion. You don't give, not 100 billion euros, but 150-160 million euros, to build a thousand IF beds. Why don't you do it? Answer us at last! With 8m euros, the Greek Parliament built fifty beds of ITH. Make calculations! Of course, you do not give half a billion euros for the necessary health uptakes. When you give EUR 4.5 billion to the budget now, you did not think that you would give half a billion euro to health. Is that so hard? Are we done with the coronary, now that we haven't seen the top of the wave, where the viral load has increased, the intubated? Do you think the issue of health is over, or do you think that the great project you have in front of you and it does not end is to privatise health and thus not strengthen health? We're told by your ministers what to do with the new IF beds when the coronary's over, as if we know it's over and when. What do doctors do when the coronary's over? And we were told by your ministers and Mr. Petsas in the summer, then Mr. Gerapetritis told us, and your ministers continue to say so. The way you're opening tourism again, we don't know what's been waiting for us since September, when the World Health Organization is talking about next waves in September and you don't give half a billion, but you give almost a hundred businessmen, you're going to concentrate on them. On the other issue of the bill, the state aid body for theories, you insist on first using this term, which is completely inappropriate. He said: "But how does the European Commission use the word "theories"? I have turned to the texts of the European Commission. There is indeed the word 'theorems' in the Greek text. In all other texts, the expression is very clear. ‘Nature disasters’ in the English text is ‘Nature disasters’. Tell us how it translates thoroughly? ‘Natural disasters’. But let's get to the point. You're building a frame. No matter how nice or bad this is, when the content is missing, i.e. the political will for compensation is lacking, you are simply building a body in which the "later" will be appointed or transferred. Why am I talking about the lack of political will for compensation? Because we saw it in Cardica. I was at the rally at Carditsa, where the local society went out to claim full compensation. What did people tell us? They told us that farmers are being compensated on the basis of ELGA, which compensates 60% of the average price, the average production of this product in the wider region, and not on the basis of an on-the-spot visit and a committee survey to see what was the estimated production of this producer in this year and what should be compensated for. Similarly, the same is true in other regions. So if you don't change and you don't decide to fully compensate production, I honestly don't understand why you're still building a shell? You do not have the political will to make full compensation for farmers and the rest of the people affected. We heard about it at the hearing. They also call on the commissions to involve the municipalities, in addition to what we say about ELGA, to receive local companies compensation, to have representatives from the chambers in the committees so that, when we talk about professional cases, the experts can judge the damage to the company and, of course, the cancellation of insurance contributions and tax burdens for the firms affected for the time that the impact exists. In vain work of the institutions, of course, as you do not even do it for the whole society affected by the pandemic. You don't even do it to lead them to this bankruptcy. You insist on the returnable advances, payment suspensions, like SYRIZA respectively, in his plan, which speaks of payment suspensions, as if these people would be able to pay these debts afterwards. These lead to bankruptcy, leading to the concentration of activities in a few. I shall, however - and I shall close - on the windy amendment on the temporary landing of an instrument for the transport of RES equipment. The 'temporary' of course does not have a time frame, it does not concern the period and the construction phases. It is obviously about the temporary operation of the project. This procedure does not come to an end, as long as it is necessary to transfer renewable energy projects equipment. But equipment needs to be transported for maintenance as well. What do you want to do with this amendment? You want to avoid Tinos phenomena, that is, where all the local society went down to the port and said "We will not allow you to go to wind turbines facilities", let alone without building permits and many other illegalities. Because this situation has been deterred, you want - and obviously the investors have asked you - to be able to go outside ports and anywhere else. These amendments concern all islands and coastal regions. I would like to remind you a little of what is happening with the winds today. I have personally fought since I joined the environmental movement, from my fourteenths, for climate change, for the environment and for cultural heritage. I have taken part without delay in all the European Parliament's official delegations in the climate negotiations. I have fought for stricter targets for climate change, more ambitious, as some are tending to say. And I keep giving them up. What you bring to winds has nothing to do with tackling climate change. You are breaking European legislation together. We were convicted in December of '20s for the non-protection of NATURA'. You, too, brought an amendment to NATURA, so that you could go through such projects and, above all, by wind and a few tourists, before the study plans were made, for which we were condemned to the European Union. That is why there has also been a complaint from environmental organisations in the European Commission and will speed up the fine procedure, which will reasonably be quite important, will be around half a billion. As long as anything reminds you, Mr. Undersecretary, we would be costed by the hiring to health and the ITH. At the same time we are in the preamble to the European Court of Justice for authorisations in breach of European wind law in NATURA. This process will also be accelerated. At the same time as you say you will bring in a revised edifice of RES, you are violating any restrictions on RES spatial planning. In Karystos, which has a management plan since 2000, and no government has implemented it, which we know the exclusion zones within these exclusion zones, in saturated areas - on the basis of the regional planning of the RES - a region in the Municipality of Karystos, you are putting the law on strategic investment, with short licensing procedures, a hundred and a half new wind turbines in an area that already has six hundred and four. And since you are violating this restriction of the village of the RES, you go to Kythera, to violate the rest, the distances from archaeological sites, i.e. at the Kastropolis of Kythera, the old capital of the island, with windy in the area of a thousand five hundred meters from Mylopotamos, a traditional settlement, as well as within the area of five hundred meters from settlements with residents. We have three cases. That's what you're doing. You are violating all European legislation. You are violating every national legislation at the same time as you are talking about tightening up the framework, you, who are violating the existing one, which seems relaxing to you. So, to end this story, your goal is to strengthen the five RES entrepreneurs. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] What would be the alternative, the truly ecological alternative, is the real fight against climate collapse? What the European Commission has been telling us since 2019, that Greece is the first country among European countries to benefit from the development of roofed photovoltaics. It is a study based on economics and data from terrain satellite images, where they have seen what is empty, what space is there, what can be the profit, and whether it is sustainable. They saw that it is sustainable, they saw that it fits so many photovoltaics on the citizens' roofs that 33% of the energy we consume is produced by them. And all you need to do is "I save at home" for all households through the Recovery Fund. It would mobilize, we would have more energy production than consumption, because it would reduce consumption. We would have an explosion of economics, a real recovery, with all the small jobs that would be involved and a replacement for households' incomes, as it would have been a production of energy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] What's the problem? The small would win, the households would win, the small professionals, the self-employed, the small businesses would win. And that's what you don't want. Your choice to destroy nature, to put wind, means irreparable damage to the environment, means that it is without returning the road of climate collapse. That's what you're doing. The first objective of climate change is to protect the natural ecosystems that have left us intact. The first thing you do is put wind turbines in Olympus, the second largest mountain in Greece, in Smolica, in the White Mountains, in Taygetos, in São and in Zagorochoria in Tymph. And all of this, while they have been characterized worldwide as areas of absolute global protection, because each of these mountains has an area of fifty square kilometres without roads, it is untouchable. You put windy in the virgin forest in Levaditis, you put in the woods in the Evros Delta, you put all the RES projects into the Dead Pyrna and, in fact, without permits, as Mr Hatzidakis in August 2020 made sure that a ministerial decision would be passed, which is exempted from all RES projects when they are under 10 MW. There is a responsible statement, model environmental commitments, a commitment. The study doesn't go through the service control.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u75	Mr Arseni, please finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u76	I shall conclude, Mr President, and thank you very much for tolerance, but the issues are very important. Obviously we are voting against and we are really asking this government, however in vain it may be, to change course, to stop this legacy of bankruptcy of small businesses and households, to benefit five entrepreneurs in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u77	Before giving the floor to the President of the Greek Parliamentary Group, I have an announcement to this House. The Standing Committee on Public Administration, Public Order and Justice submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Justice: ‘Code of Justice’. The President of the Greek Parliamentary Group Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u78	Thank you very much, Mr President. Since the Minister, Mr Besiropoulos, who comes from Imathia, is here, I would like to appeal to him because I am from Pella Prefecture. Minister, peach producers have been destroyed and Imathia from what I've learned. And when we talk about destruction, you know we're talking about total destruction. That means that the government must quickly find mechanisms for these people, who will not get a peach of peaches, as you can hear. Last year they had the story of the Russian embargo, with which you have unfortunately again made mistakes. They could, in other words, move them to Russia and sell them, but you did the ban and Germany continues to do the "NORD STREAM". Germany wants its own and ours. Farmers are desperate. I've been talking to them since yesterday. I have relatives of farmers in Giannitsa, Pella Prefecture, Old Mylopotus. It's all kind of big, by the name of Georgiadis. They told me that if you go to the fields, it's certain there's not even a peach on the trees. It's three counties that have peach producers, and Pieria and Imathia and Pelles County. I therefore consider the Minister's obligation, since he is from there and can - at the same time speak to Mr Lebanese personally - to provide compensation to people, because he will sincerely have great hunger in an area, central Macedonia, which was once rich, because he had agricultural production. I am going to link this to the absurdity you are doing. I can't understand the wind farm mania and the photovoltaics. I don't understand her, believe me. I'm not an economist, just like some other people are. I like ecology, nature, I get it. But I am not a professional economist, so that I can raise this story in a political presence. In the plain, in the plain of Larissa, the land could be fruited through Acheloos - which has never happened - but could produce enormous wealth of agricultural production, but not aubergines and tomatoes, as some people think. He could do what Israel does. To copy Israel, with its hybrids, with new technologies, with new structures. Go and put iron on the farm land - iron, do you understand? - for photovoltaics! There's a big party right now. Here's the bone, he knows. If you go to the villages, all the farmers have become PV investors. And I ask you this. We set photovoltaics throughout Greece and on rooftops. Wherever you want, put photovoltaics on. What will the farmer produce to eat? We are a country where the trade balance, even in food, in food, which is the future, is a deficit. You must seriously plan as government, Minister, you and the other ministers and the Prime Minister, how the country can produce products so that we can produce a sufficient amount - I am not saying self-sufficiency - as Russia did with Vladimir Putin, which, from 15% of food, has now reached 65%, 70%. Check it out. Bill Gates himself - this great form - has taken hundreds of millions of acres - I will tell you the number - to create a food industry! Compared with Israel, Greece could have had 140 to 150 billion euros of agricultural and livestock products. But, as our rapporteur quite rightly said, how can the farmer produce, how can he feed his livelihoods when feeding feed is at 70%? Does that mean what? That it is expensive and then imports from Egypt, from Turkey, come from Bulgaria. Find ways, design, because every week you bring tax bills here, every week bring tax amendments and we are a state with great plurality. I was watching the accountants' code, the Tax Code. How many volumes are there, Minister? Is that so? The accountant showed it to me the other day. You're laughing, because you're taxier, you know it better than we do. No, it's not the government, the pluralism that exists, I repeat, it's the problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u79	There's no accountant code.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u80	I don't know what you're saying, I'm not an accountant. I'm a historian. Do you want me to teach you history lessons about Aeges? Let me do it to you. You know, Vergina exists. I'm gonna teach you some lessons, but I'm gonna teach you entrepreneurship lessons, after you go there and prove it to you in a little while that you're making bad mistakes. I told you about the photovoltaics and you didn't answer me for the books. I'm telling you you're making a crime on earth, the ravage earth, the Thessaly land, the central Macedonia. And Serres you're making photovoltaic parks. With five acres, the other puts photovoltaics, instead of producing products, and you were disturbed by the accounting books! To understand, because you're an intelligent man, I don't want to tell you what's known with the finger, there's no reason! The seriousness of looking at changing and correcting me seriously. We'll take a look. Since we are talking seriously, IMF, public debt in 2020 to 213% of GDP. How much did we go with, my Minister, in the memoirs? Halfway through memoirs, and now 213% of GDP is in debt. Where are we going? Where are we traveling, you know? Let me tell you where we're traveling. To Caucasus! That's where we're going. It's the second biggest increase in the world. What are we talking about in here? I see the New Democracy is missing. Only Mr. Brutsis is stable. The rest of you, all right. Where are we finally going? I want to figure out where this place is going. And here we are talking about a silent implementation of a new memorandum, the fourth memorandum. Don't be fooled, you take orders, not you, your government, and perform what they tell her. But at the same time with these wrong choices you perform the home, you execute the economy. Bankrupt law, now brings Hatzidakis, the superman - sorry, I was talking about the cake, I am now confused with his cake - a new bill on labour. Christ and God bless you! And you know where we've arrived? I'll tell you what. It is a good thing, but it shows poverty and poverty. We have three hundred thousand voucher applications for two hundred euros. Imagine where we got the Greek! It's not your fault, you just as Minister are here. But, when the Greek gets to run, to do this for 200 euros, we're talking about hunger now, if we don't understand. Hunger! The Greek enthusiasts have become. He wants work, he needs work, he wants to work, to fruit his life, to make money, to give his grandchildren, to give his child. He wants work, not to leave his child abroad because he's unemployed. He wants to have hope, to think there's one tomorrow. Let's leave yesterday and the other day, the mistakes of SYRIZA, the mistakes of yours, the previous ones. Let's start today, son, and organize something serious in this country. Economy. I want to be vigilant about everyone, because at some point we need to be serious about this country. The Prime Minister in his speech to the PPC in September 2020 stated: ‘October 2020 payment of retroactive main pensions to one million pensioners’. March's too, and they're still waiting. The Prime Minister told IDU, as promised me by the Prime Minister of the country, whom I respect, and I suspect he will finally give pensions to our Northcontinental brothers and our Greek-Poland brothers a year and a half ago just and do nothing. But, elsewhere you know how to do. I'm gonna be a little left now. The "a little left" I call it a complimentary one. You have made hairdressing on all major channels - and disprove me here, Minister, you - for loans of 90%. Did you or did you not make haircuts on a big channel owner of 90% bond loan? Are you negotiating now with 'green' light' your own to make a 90% cut bond loan to another canalarch again? Why? To "little" you all day and cut us off. I haven't appeared on a pan-Hellenic channel for three months, last time in "AND1", and a few years on the other channels. And that makes sense. If he owes 90 million the channel and you cut 80 million, you'll never see there. PASOK - KINAL, I can see them a little, because they're old friends, most of them. And New Democracy all day. Did you or did you not get a haircut on the "CORDER THEME", the known "First Lie", the site yours, millions of euros? Yes or no? Why don't you do the same thing with this man who's in danger of losing his house, he's got a 100,000 euros loan, he's got 300,000 interest, he's paid the 150,000, and now they're after him to take the other 150,000, get his house? Make a haircut there, too. Why don't you do it? Because you tell me that the Greek Solution - and you smile many times and I believe that - is the only party that has proposals and arguments, criticism is good. And you see it from our rapporteur that he came and told you that we disagree with the logic of 'I get borrowed, to distribute money'. He's wrong. I produce wealth, I succeed as government, and then I share the money. If you get borrowed, to split minutes, crumbs, i.e. you are further indebted to the country. 214% of GDP will go to the debt, 250%, to 300%. That's not how it works. So listen - I did not invent America - what Romania has done over the last ten years. Romania! I said it another time, but you didn't hear me. Listen. Romania's GDP, Mr Brutsi, in 2016 was 160 billion. In 2016, Mr Kamine, it was 60 billion. Romania has a GDP of 227 billion this year. How did they do it? They didn't find any oil. They have oil, of course, but they didn't find the magic wand. They made a few choices. We of the 180 billion last year reached 165 billion. It's falling down on GDP. When we talk about GDP, people don't understand. GDP is the wealth of the country, the movement of money, it is what money Greece has. Of the over 300 billion we went to 165 billion. So what did the Romanians do? They have low borrowing, no taxes, and the employees' tax is 10%, Minister. 10% is taxation in Romania! What are you shaking your head for? For the employees? Listen to the difference, here's the big crime. Understand what a crime you're committing. Romano gets his salary, ladies and gentlemen, already taxed. That is, it takes 450 euros, 500 euros, 600 euros, but they are taxed. He doesn't have to give anything else. What are the Romanians doing like that, my Minister? They've done away with bureaucracy. You don't have to make a tax statement. "Take the accountant, bring the accountant, get him on the phone, put one on the other." Oh, no. How's it going? The employer withholds taxes and social security contributions and pays them every month. And it's a felony to mislead taxes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u81	What's going on in Greece? What's predicted here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u82	It's a party. You want me to tell you? I'll tell you what's going on. Minister, what tax does the Greek company have? Please tell me how much I'm taxing my business. Tell me the number. Let me hear the number.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u83	You talked about employees.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u84	Tell me what tax a business pays.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u85	If she's a legal person, she's 24%. Into the gross.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u86	10% there is Romania. What can we talk about? How am I going to compete with Romania? How am I going to compete with a similar company, I'm telling you? That's what you don't understand, you're still staying in the lasson, and you're not looking at the major. I mean, we show them the major, and they look at the lasson. They're getting caught by something to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u87	Minister, you don't sound. Please. If you want, answer later.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u88	So I answer on a point of order, so you know what you're saying. Listen a little. I told you that 10 percent are the employees. For companies, there are no compulsory insurance contributions for shareholders. Secondly, corporate taxation as a million euros is 1%, Minister. Today I got to my office Romania's tax system. I'll send it to your office. For an employee. It's 3% if they don't have any employees. Understood? How are we going to compete with these businesses? Bulgaria has 13% here. How can I compete with the Bulgarian company? That's why 6 billion cigarettes went to Bulgaria, Minister. Why did they leave? They like Bulgaria? More beautiful country than Greece doesn't exist. Don't argue with the self-evident at last, don't be serious. What are we talking about? And that worked. How did Romania succeed, you tell me? And did it increase its GDP of about 90% over? He brought Chuchescu back and raised him? Oh, no. How did they do it? Somehow they did. I'm telling you a few things. As far as the tax system is concerned, we are the only country to which each government brings ten different tax systems. Ten amendments, ten legislative acts. You bring unscrupulous laws here. One is the solution. I told you, this one. There's no other way. That and the production of wealth. Because we are among the people we have and view, we have a perception, Minister, I have no intention of opposing you. But I'll see you tomorrow morning if you do anything for the peaches in Imathia and Pella. You're Minister. I will raise the phone and say 'the Minister'. So I will see how effective we are all of us and say to him 'compensate them'. But for the photovoltaics, you didn't tell me anything that in the land of Imathia, the land of Pella, the land of Larissa, you're going to put photovoltaics instead of producing wealth. That's where we're not talking. So we're actually entering. Because I want to be clear about some things, the economy, Minister, is not paper. The economy is a matter of matter, it's goods. If you're talking about providing service, you're wrong. Service provision is a high-risk economy. We're talking about producing wealth. This is our difference, producing wealth, giving goodwill to our products. We've been through this a thousand times. We have a programme, Minister - and I challenge and invite any of you - free on the Internet. It's about five hundred pages of books. Ready program, implemented. Tomorrow morning to give us four years at last to breathe, to take bread and to understand who works and who don't work. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] And I am not talking about work as a whole. But you see us. We've been here all day. Where are the others? Only by that can you understand that the Greek Solution has a different concept in Parliament, that we are here every day, talking, talking, talking, choosing. We'll tell you where you're making mistakes. It's not just the economy. Because pandemic is an economic issue too. That's where you criminalised, Minister. You've done scary crimes. We're right, too. I was telling the House here in September to the Prime Minister - he was here - about Sputnik. And what did he say to me? "But, you know, it can't." The Austrians take it, the Slovaks take it. Today the German Minister for Health decided to take Sputnik directly. Everybody gets it. We get other things - we get them in general - but we don't get Sputnik. Why? We talked about it here. Second, we told you we had reservations with the vaccines. AstraZeneca: Loss of two months. We were telling you, because we knew, because we have a team of scientists who tell us. I don't say it in my head. I'm not an expert. Even in economics, Minister, I have a group of experts, with Mr Villardos, with the rest of the people who are engaged in economics. Same to health. We have university teachers who tell us. Jurisdiction three. I told you: 'Don't make Lockdown, don't make Lockdown, it's wrong, it's a crime, you kill the economy.' You were saying other than others. Mrs Linou comes out the other day and says that lockdown is death. I won't tell you what he said. Lockdown is death! I saw the Prime Minister here and told him about the company known as 'SWISS MED'. I told him it was a monkey company. I told him in here. He laughed, just like you laugh. And after ten days, the Greek solution was justified. You pulled her out because you knew she was a monkey. We knew it. Didn't you know? So you can't, you're not worth ruling the place, if a small party knows it, and you don't know it. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Qualification fifth: The Greek Medical Society for self-test says it is medical activity. They're scientists. They're not random. That's medical. Anyone can't make self-diagnosis. Sixth medicine right: "The use of monoclonal antibodies by the European Medicines Agency has been authorised." We've been talking about it since October. I told you that in "Papanikolaou" there is a group of Greeks that can produce. He's making it. And they went and took money from the poor bastards 250,000 from Djijkosta, because the government wasn't talking, and from Mrs. Angelopoulou. You see, I say her name. I may be in front of her, but the woman gave money and people started doing the experiments instead of running as government. But if I was a bad option, I'd say you're only running for the vaccines more because it's a big business than for the rest. But I'm not saying it. Seventh condition: "In the public transport it does not stick," the Prime Minister said. ‘I have studies.’. I said to him, "You're wrong." "I have studies," he was telling me. Where are the studies? Gerapetri's been called or I don't know who's got them. And now Mr Karamanlis comes out in the morning at the ERT before me and says: "We will take buses, because there is a dispersal." Uh, now what should I talk about? How serious can you be? Right eighth: we were telling you about the ICUs and I'm going to give numbers now. In Germany, which is eighty - five million people, there are twenty - six thousand intensive beds, eleven thousand emergency beds. Greece has a thousand two hundred - a thousand three hundred. We normally have three and a half to four thousand regular ICUs. It's normal, though. No, take the tube and put him on the ranch. With tubes in the ranch, we got them. Those are mistakes! And you get to the point where you blackmail the Church, which consents, because the Church always goes with power - when Mr. Tsipras was with Tsipras, now with you - not to do Easter. It is the first time since the establishment of the Greek Church, which takes place at nine o'clock. Where have you seen it gospels at eight o'clock and Easter at nine o'clock? I knew Easter was a mobile holiday. I didn't know that the Resurrection is a mobile time and you're taking her wherever you want, you're taking her a stroller. I'm telling you, as a Christian. I don't understand why in Ramadan you don't do anything else. You're dragging priests into court. He says to a priest who had a different view. This is where you criminalize the other point of view. And this is where I live. Six hundred mosques are working. Is that a check? Oh, no! In churches, however, it is done. Can I tell you something? Do it in churches too, but do it elsewhere. It's not just church. That bothers me. It's annoying, believe me. It's racist. It's Christian and Greek. And if you are anti-racists, be real anti-racists and not anti-Russians against the Greeks, everyone here. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Let's also go to known history. I remember last March we were told: ‘ Be patient. Shut down the Easter. Don't go out. We'll make a good summer." It came in the summer and you said to us: “Be patient. Lock yourself in. The parade's coming. We'll make a parade." The parade came and you told us: "Be patient. We're not going to make parades. We'll be there alone. We'll do a merry Christmas." They came to Christmas and you told us: “Block yourself in. It's all right, you'll do Theophanes." The Theophanes came, you say, "It's okay, you're closed in, we'll do Easter." The Easter came, you tell us now: "Block in. We'll make summer." Mr Pavlakis comes out this morning and says 'the fourth wave in the summer'. So you don't get to be believed! Nobody believes you. The citizen can't be trusted. The citizen is out of his mind. He went crazy and went out in the streets and in the balconies! They jump off the windows! Do you understand that? Young people who make the parties - and badly congratulate everyone together, but we were all once and have had the revolutionary momentum within us, don't forget that - go out to the parks in Hive or anywhere else because they don't believe you. You're not being believed. You give millions of channels for propaganda, brainwash. Why are you doing this? You said at first 'no masks'. Chiodras said so. After 'all masks'. At the beginning of 'everyone' test. Mr. Kikilias here, when we told him, Mr. Kamine, we all run a test in April - May, I don't remember, or sooner or later, what he said to me? He said: “These are like wishing peace all over the world. They are not done anywhere'. And now, after a year, we are told 'all tests'. Well, now, how serious a policy is to believe the Minister, who is a doctor, and who is a good man, Mr. Kikilis. He told the House, the committee. All these contradictions, I'll say directly, are because at first you lied and you're lying again. Why? You are addicted to lying and not to good administration and governance, unfortunately. That's the truth. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] I also have in front of me - why are you lying - a letter of coroner. I'll testify to it in the Minutes of the House. No one dares to do that. What does the committee say? The coroners, colleagues of the New Democracy, are questioning the deaths of COVID. It's their letter, Minister, signed forensics, Mr. Kamine. In other words, they question that all these deaths are due to COVID. Here it is, I'm filing the document on the Minutes. Whoever wants to get it out of there. What do they say? They question both PCRs, self-diagnosis tests. Here is the whole study, I will testify for the Minutes: what is a pandemic and how deaths are reduced by ELSTAT. We have fewer deaths than we had last year. Do you understand that, Mr. Ministers? Ladies and gentlemen, have you realised that we have fewer deaths than we had in 2019? Why? Since we have pandemic, people die, they end. I know what you're gonna tell me. You saved Greece. You saved us. Okay. In psychopharmaceuticals, all Greeks dropped it and in antidepressants. So let's actually go. All the studies will be submitted for the Minutes. And this is where the big party starts. I myself asked the Prime Minister for the Minutes - and Mr Tsipras asked for them later, and Mr Koutsoubas, in his honor, and Mrs Gennamas, we have all asked for the Minutes - of the infectious, to see how much faith they are. We were told, then, that there were no minutes. No record shall be observed. They were baking themselves. I am therefore tabling a report from the newspaper 'DIMOURATIA', which is doing an excellent job from the minutes of the infectious events, where neither too much nor much is decided here - and the government should have fallen - that it is not the committee's decision but that the ministers of the New Democracy decide. I'll submit it to the minutes of the House. You should have all resigned because you were lying to Parliament, lying to the Greek people! And I'm sorry to say that. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Moreover, Harry Theocharis, the Minister of Tourism, comes out and says: "The whole country is safe. There are no COVID-free and no COVID-free islands.’ Very nice. Since the country and the citizens provide security to tourists - the Minister's statement - why are the Greeks closed down? Why can my German friend Hans come on vacation next month, early June, in Greece with a test - with a test - and the Greek can't go to an island, go to his village, go to his country? Why? Why would the tourist come with a test and Greek doesn't go with a test? You tell me. Let's draw conclusions. Can I tell you something? You committed a crime. Mr. Brutsis is from a tourist area. I wish we had indoor tourism. The Greek left more money in the past. Understood. Inland tourism will save Greece, not the woods that come from England of 100 and 200 euros. Why don't they leave the money here. They've killed tourism all inclusive. Do you understand? The taxi's not moving, the store's not moving in the old town, in the new town. There's nothing moving! The self-evident thing we're telling you. We don't want to fight, we don't want anything. We're the voice of reason! That's who we're in here! Come on, you don't want to, you'll understand! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Also, to slowly close, with data from here through CNN - not the gr, CNN is the normal channel - Vistara - UK 6395 from Delhi to Hong Kong on 4 April. It has at least forty-seven imported cases. They were tested before. They had nothing. As soon as they arrived in the other country, forty-seven cases. Here's the case arrangement after five days. They didn't have the test. What does that mean? You'll bring the tourist test and spread the coronary. If you're afraid of him, how do you open the shaft of Halos? How do you play the crowns - letters the lives of the Greeks? And why don't you let the Greek out? He's a prisoner. He's incarcerated. Professor Ioannides at "MEGA" said it all yesterday. He said 'open the market'. So do we. Lockdown's story is a failure. Let people go. Measuring, protecting, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Why would I say the same thing to the Left: since you agree with the measures, why are you protesting? Why are you succumbing to the marches? Why do you tolerate them? Oh, no. Free Greeks, because freedom is everything for man. Understood! We feel enslaved and imprisoned! Also, Dr. Haldingcud, professor of immunization - immunotherapy at the Institute of Philadelphia, United States, in the scientific journal "SCIENTIST" said: "We have no experience with viral vehicle vaccines on the market after approval." And stop lying. I'm tired. Here's the study. I'm tired of hearing you lie! No vaccine is empty! It's all conditional. They don't have a license. It's under partial authorization, understand! That's why I have reservations. Because it is not just the long-term, it is the medium-term and the side effects that will occur later. Stop lying, all of you! I'm saying it's so everyone who makes a vaccine can figure it out. Not mandatory. Whoever wants to go and do it. We have a democracy. Not mandatory. Let's go to the next one. The FDA communication: "Nothing of all the vaccines in question does," listen!, "is licensed. It is unknown.’ FDA, not Velopoulos. There are studies here. Because the bus studies, where it's not stuck, never came. The studies said by the Greek Solution come here to see that we are the only ones to say what is true. Everyone else is talking about fairy tales!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u89	Mr President, it is a warm request to be briefed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u90	I'm closing, Mr. President. But it is very serious. Self-test: In the box I got from Germany, he said the waste is toxic. It was written, Mr. Red. "Pharmaceutical waste" he said in German. The Greek company that received it changed the paper in it and doesn't say it's toxic waste. And while there writes "for medical use, for medical use", on the self-test received by me, the Greek, translation, he didn't write anything like that. I'll give it to you in the Minutes and that. We're talking about crimes. There are crimes. Toxic waste is considered in Germany. How do you do that? And I don't say it. It is said by the special group of infectious agents of yours. Also, I won't talk about fines. Mr. Minister of Finance, the hunters' money and the fishermen's paradoxes, did you return them back? The hunters paid insanely. But they didn't go hunting. You banned them. Did you give it back?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u91	Didn't you see in the bill what we're doing?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u92	Now you're doing it?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u93	Didn't you see?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u94	I'm asking. Did you give it back?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u95	See what we're doing...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u96	Did you give it back?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u97	I'll answer you in a moment. We're making a newsletter...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u98	Oh, you didn't give it, but you'll make the paper. That's good. I'll take it. But now you're doing it. You've kept the money for seven months and you're giving it back now. I wish you could give it to yourself and to your honor. I don't blame anyone. I shall therefore close with our suggestions. They're specific. Here's what you've achieved in a year. First, parents fight with teachers and teachers. Parents killed in trouble with their children. Second, you've come to weaken the ICUs. Thirdly, implementation of the doctrine'shall divide and rule'. You pay the parrots on the channels to say "sprayed" and to divide the Greeks into those who have reservations. Not that they're uninvasive. "stood" you tell them. This is splitting up, separating citizens into obedients and sprayed ones. Fourthly, you have excluded citizens from the churches. Fifth, Ramadan normally. Sixth, freedom, demonstrations, illegal immigrants and tourists who can come. The Greeks on the race don't! Locked in! Seven, tourists with a test, Greek or their village. Eighth, companies that have been working to repay loans and debts that have accumulated for a year, Minister, because PPC pays it. PPC, I'm paying for it. In my closed store, PPC, and the water pays for it. And PPC isn't the power I consume, because it's small. They're municipal fees and all of this and much more, EMEMEAR, "FETEAR"... I'm paying for it. I'm paying for a car insurance policy. Here's eight o'clock going down. Police are becoming a tool of yours. There is to keep the wrath of society and finally make it a bigger tool to use the policemen of 700 euros. And there's a national humiliation with the EOZ. Mrs. Peloni comes out and actually says things tragically about the country. And, as you have seen, Mr Teddy's enormous success in Turkey, which we said was "go" and the next day he went to the bells. Why? Because Mrs Peloni said that in the south of Crete it is a matter of French harassment by a Turkish warship from the French ship. And what did the French do? They left the area and left the area. This means that it is not just questionable, but under Turkish sovereignty the region south of Crete. I'm closing up with our suggestions, so I don't have a lot of people to worry about. Listen. You know, Minister, what is the difference between a powerful and powerless country? The mighty exercises, without many, many words, his sovereignty, he tells you "this plot is mine" - and it is his - without making any pretexts out of his mind. "Whenever I think, I will do it." The weakest voices complaints in the complaint box, i.e. the European Union and the United States. And he also feels proud of it, as did Mr. Dendias, because he dared to do what he did. And we applauded all the Greeks, because a minister dared - and good for him - to do what was self-evident. I believe that the self-evident thing is one and only one: that Mr Deedias made mistakes there, which no one has said. I'll tell you about the Minutes of the House. Mr Dendia's first mistake: he did not talk about Imbros and Tenedo, but he spoke about the demilitarisation of the islands that Turkey is asking for. Mr Dendia's second mistake: he spoke of a mosque in Athens and not of a mosque. The mosque is another thing. There they become instructional and various things. He also didn't talk about our Holy Wisdom. A third mistake: He said nothing about the orphan Cyprus from the wings of the mother of Greece. We left Cyprus and we will delete it from history as a piece of Greek land, which we will lose too! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] And I'm closing up with our pandemic proposals. Minister, speaking with the experts of our party this morning, I was told this is immeasurable: the pandemic is, at the moment, the epidemic wave - ten to twenty times worse than last year. Ten or twenty times worse than last year! Wrongly your strategy to encapsulate the world in the urban centers. We should not limit movements. The micro-management of population mobility is impossible. It can't be done. It's impossible! We need to open the focus now. And I am glad that SYRIZA is being dragged into our proposal, which since August we were talking about opening up the focus normally, working the shops and six hundred thousand workers. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Distribution, therefore, of mobility, diluted contacts and not inside the house. We have a domestic dispersal. Full failure of Lockdown. In conclusion, I will say that you are a government that has taken over a major problem. It's for granted. It's a huge and heavy burden. The pandemic is a very heavy burden for a government, a difficult burden. We're not gonna lie in here. Since March, April, we proposed things that would deceive you. You didn't hear them. You listen to them late and copy them later. We'll continue to recommend you. We'll keep talking. We will continue to react constructively, consistently, because we are the voice of logic, the party with the proposals and arguments, not vague opinions. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] I say this and I close: Leave the Greeks free. We imprisoned them, enslaved them, bankrupt them in the memorials, left their smile, joy. Give it a sense of freedom. Open the Easter, open the churches, open the shops with protective measures, so that we don't have any dispersal, because the Greek is responsible, the Greek grows individually, so he will take responsibility for his actions. The problem is that the government does not take any responsibility and they say it's the infectious, it's our fault, it's Hatzipeter's fault. Oh, no! It's all our fault, ladies and gentlemen. You have not, however, convinced the citizens and today, unfortunately, it is too much for society and the economy. I will tell you once again: Freedom the Greek wants and not slavery!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u99	Mr Besiropoulos has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u100	Mr President, I would like to speak after the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u101	After the Minister, I'll give you the floor. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u102	I would like to make two clarifications, Mr President, following the speech of the President of the Greek Solution. Firstly, withholding the tax on wage earners and retired persons has been in force for too many years in our country as well. It's not just in Romania. The country's tax regime has been in place for many years. The tax is withholding on employees and pensioners at the source. The income tax declarations of employees and pensioners on this part are being supplemented and it only supplements other incomes from other sources, in order to clear the tax. We shall now move on to the substance of what the President said. I fully agree that there is no magic wand, but no money. What did we do when we took over power in 2019? Income tax for natural persons: We reduced the initial tax rate from 22% to 9% and increased by EUR 1,000 for every child without limit for the first three children. We have also reduced by one unit all the highest rates. Legal persons from 29% to 24% of the tax. It was a pre-election commitment and we did so a year ago and, indeed, a year earlier, we did what we had in our pre-election programme for the ENPIA. What were we doing about HNPH, a tax that the previous government said was unfair and would be abolished by a law and by an article, and it came down to a tax-free limit of EUR 300,000 to EUR 250,000 for the additional tax and more than tripled the tax rates? We've come and reduced him by 22% in half, reducing him for the small and medium-sized assets up to 30%. The solidarity levy, an unfair tax, as the previous government said, which was abolished on 31-12-2016 and had tax rates for the first, from 12 000 to 20,000 euros 0.7% and from 20,000 to 30,000 euros 1.4%, came the SYRIZA government and permanently increased its tax rates, tripled them, took the first rate from 0.7%, as I said, to 2.2% and the second rate from 1.4% to 5% et cetera. We have come and suspended this tax for the year that is now taxing, in 2000, the 2020 tax declaration. For private sector employees, those who are withholding from 1-1-2021 onwards, this retention has been suspended for this year, as for entrepreneurs, farmers, free professionals, for the incomes of 2020, the solidarity levy has been suspended. The end of a trade, we suspended it for a year - last year and this year - for farmers and it is in the bill we are discussing today and for coastal fishing fishermen, with fishing vessels up to 12 metres between boats. For the hunters, as you said, Mr President, we have also received a press release, we have announced it, and we have just had an amendment to this bill. What about the hunters? For hunters, especially for the hunting year 2021 and 2022, hunters are exempted from the obligation to pay the paper and hunting fee, subject to the same type of licence as last year, since for a long period of time, as you said, the hunting had been banned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. Mr Brutsis, you have also asked for the floor for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u104	Yes, Mr. President. Thank you very much. It'll be just a minute. I must, however, clarify a few issues raised by the President of the Greek Solution, Mr Velopoulos, in order to restore the truth. Our government, Mr President, since the beginning of the pandemic, has set health and undeniably today, despite the fact that a long time has passed on to this unprecedented event throughout the world, throughout the world, it seems that the government of our country, together with the Greek people and with the parties, has been dealing with the co-management we have all done together, proved to be one of the best ways across Europe, whether by the number of vaccines or by the number of cases, or even - even by the way in which we operate the labour market, and businesses, the support we have provided, by reducing unemployment even within pandemic. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the way the government managed the pandemic issue is one of the best in Europe. The second element, which is important and which was mentioned by the President of the Greek Solution, is the following: the government from the beginning of the pandemic until today as a compass of direction for its decisions, has and will always have the decisions of the infectious, scientific community. Here, gentlemen of the Greek Solution, a oxymomile shape arises. The President of the Greek Solution is indicting us, because we're not supposed to listen to the infectious ones. We are listening to them and being a compass of our political decisions, but at the same time you, without having taken the opinion of the contagious, are insisting on 'opening the focus'. Has the President of the Greek Solution been consulted and says "open the focus today"? So this is a fundamental contradiction, which confirms that this is a purely hypocritical attitude of the President of the Greek Solution. And I'm closing. Because the dear Minister, Mr Vesyropoulos, has developed the tax and raised Mr Velopoulos and some of the insurance, I will tell you what we have done, because he said that the Prime Minister was committed to some things. Yes, he committed himself and acted. Firstly, we paid a million 50 000 outstanding on the basis of the new insurance reform of Law 4670/2020 and on the basis of the decision of the Council of State, i.e. all. We paid it all, Mr. Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution. They've all been paid to the retired. Secondly, we paid between fifty and seventy all the widow's pensions. We've brought it up. Thirdly, we paid thirty-five thousand demands for funeral expenses, which came to sacks all over the period in 2020. Fourthly, we have reduced four units - 3,9 in fact - insurance contributions, which increased the workers' available income in some two million cases and in a hundred sixty thousand businesses. Fifthly, we were the ones with the insurance reform that released a million and a half thousand farmers, free traders, scientists from the suffocating insurance - tax, that is, from their income. Something you and we did it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u105	Finish it, Mr. Brutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u106	Finally - and I close, Mr President - we have brought the digital version 'ATLAS'. The digital pension “ATLAS”, ladies and gentlemen, is the epitome of major structural change under the insurance reform and under the new EBRD created, the way in which the outstanding pensions will be treated, not the present, but the future of the country. All Greeks, Mr President, will receive the digital pension "ATLAS".
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u107	All right, Mr. Brutsi, we'll be told by the Minister of Labour.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u108	In a few seconds. And because I hear criticism here in the Chamber, thirty-one thousand cases of farmers and widow's pensions have been retired through the "ATLAS" system in a second. This will be extended by the next three steps that remain until the end of 2021 and closes a 50-year outstanding Greek state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u109	Mr President, I want the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u110	Look, Members of Parliament have been ambiguously waiting for some time now. Mr. Heta, the president saw how much he spoke. I have given the floor to both the Minister and the Parliamentary Representative of New Democracy, because the President has put you all the agenda, too many issues, beyond the bill. They responded to some as the Minister and the parliamentary representative thought. You, Mr. Heta, exactly what do you want now?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u111	As a parliamentary representative, I would like to respond to something that has been heard and which is false, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u112	All right, just for a minute, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u113	Mr President, thank you very much. All right, on the pension side, Mr. Brutsi, I won't insist, because I know you have your own weaknesses. However, the word "retirements" was to another Minister's cake yesterday and not to yours. Because if you had done well, the Minister would probably never have changed. Let's go later now. It is incomprehensible to hear in here that the way the government handled the pandemic and all this is one of the best. If you believe that this picture that Greece is presenting at the moment is the best way to deal with, you probably have nothing to do with reality, you probably cannot listen to the world. No relationship to reality. You're still talking to us that at a time of pandemic you have reduced unemployment! Even now unrepentant! Instead of beating over the problems of the world, you are already mocking the Greek people and saying that you have also reduced unemployment. Mr. Velopoulos, the President of the Greek Solution, invited you to lie, not to you personally, but to lie throughout the management of the pandemic. Take the Minutes, Mr. Brutsi. Mrs. Pagonis says that the focus should be opened, not only Mr. Velopoulos and the Greek Solution. Mrs. Pagoni says to open the focus!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u114	Today when the committee meets...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u115	You'll take your time and you'll talk. Don't interrupt me, don't be hooligan. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u116	Come on, Mr. Heta, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u117	Mrs. Pagonis is yours. Take the minutes in which they say that by ordering Gerapittritis, Skhertsos etc., there are pressures etc. You decide who runs this country. Your ministers or the infectious? Because you've done a ball. Decide. Really, decide why you've brought them all to their limits. It is incomprehensible to hear you deserve congratulations on this mess that the country presents today.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u118	All right, all right. Before entering the list of speakers, because the Minister of Sports, Mr.Austrias, has come, we will give him the floor to place him on Amendment No 858 and we shall immediately proceed to the list of speakers. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u119	Thank you very much. As you already know the Rallie World Championship, WRC, returned to our country after eight years. This September our country will host the world's leading rally organization. The world's largest car manufacturers, the world's leading drivers, dozens of television networks and friends of "Ralis Acropolis" from all over the world will relive glorious moments in the Greek mountains and special routes of "Ralis Acropolis" in the Greek region, in Athens, Attica, Peloponnese, Central Greece. The lights of global motorsport and sport generally turn back to Greece, to the reborn and light-driven Greece, which is radiating around the world. The biggest event in the world, our historic struggle with its uninterrupted presence since 1952, which will be hosted this year by our country, the Rally Acropolis, after eight years of absence, returns, having even secured its presence in the institution for the period 2021-2022. The aim is to remain the 'Rally Acropolis' as a stable organisation at WRC level. This development is a stepping-up of multi-month operations. Greece has been able to open a dialogue with the World Automobile Federation and the management and promotion company "Rali Acropolis" - the WRC - since last spring, among other things, thanks to the proven good management of the pandemic, which has been commenting positively on all international media. A more decisive role, however, was played by the government's strong support and, above all, by the Prime Minister himself. By assessing the historical value of the race, its contribution to our country's positive projection abroad and also positive, but also economic impact, we signed a memorandum of cooperation with WRC promoter in December 2020. Despite the indications that what we are trying to achieve was impossible - I listened very strongly to it - we succeeded. As a country we have taken the first important step: we have undertaken to organise a leading sporting event. Today our goal is common: to organise the top "Rali Acropolis" of all times and to achieve the best organization of the institution in 2021. But, in order for this project to succeed, it is necessary to unite forces, but above all to unite together, the state, institutions of motor sports, the tourist and cultural industry in our country, as well as the viewers in the Greek mountains. All of us together and everyone separately must put our little dough for the good and above all safe organization of our national struggle. An organisational committee, working on the design and implementation of the Rally Acropolis, has already been set up. The 2021 Rally Acropolis will be the tenth round of the WRC. We believe in the enormous development potential of a flagship global event with huge tourist and cultural visibility for our country. We are pleased to fulfil the promise we made to the Greek people and friends, the thousands of friends of motor sport. As far as today's provision is concerned. The proposed provision, in particular in the case of a trade mark intended to be used for competitions of motor sports having a global or European scope, which has not been used for more than five years - provides, for reasons of public interest, for the rightholder's right to the trade mark and the automatic transfer of the right to the Greek State. Moreover, Article 50(2) of Law No 4679/2020, which is also a transposition of the European directive, provides that the proprietor of the trade mark is to be deprived of his rights either because of the non-use of the trade mark or because the trade mark has become public or because it is used in a way that is likely to mislead the public. As you can see, reasons of public interest require the transfer of the right to the Greek State, which takes place only for service by the State and not by private individuals. We recall that the signal has been inactive for many years. In simple terms, as we have said before - and here there is agreement between the political forces, I imagine - the 'Rali Acropolis' belongs to all of Greece. For this reason, the provision expressly prohibits the further transfer of the trade mark. I would remind you that the Rally Acropolis brand is seized in favour of once IKA - the current EKA - and therefore in favour of the Greek State, for ELPA's exorbitant debt to EKA - and not just - whose amount is EUR 35 million. What do we do with simple words? The signal that the Greek State has already confiscated, we take to make use of it in favour of a large global organisation undertaken by our country after eight years. I should like to make another reference to the amendment which will follow the legislative improvements made by the Ministry of Finance. It concerns the amendment of competition notices and with immediate effect, in fact. Due to the temporary suspension of sport activities for the purpose of protecting public health, the duration of the current season 2020-2021 has been dramatically reduced. It is planned, in particular for the current season 2020-2021, to allow the competent organising authorities to amend the regulations on the structure, organisation and performance of all championships, as well as the notices of all kinds of direct-power championships, in order to smoothly complete the sporting events which have been interrupted due to a coronary. The relevant decisions will be taken by the relevant management boards or executive committees, but by an increased majority of 3/4. In addition, with the legislative improvements we are tabling, we seek to deal with a possible misinterpretation of the provision. That is why we exclude sporting technical regulations and, of course, we cannot authorize temporary administrations so much, which is why we are of course exempting them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u120	We thank the Minister, who will be waiting, for they have already asked for the floor for two of the rapporteurs and special speakers. I don't know if there's anyone else. Let them keep the Bureau informed. We will give the floor to Mrs Manolakos, a special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece. Mrs Manolakou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u121	Mr Minister, we have a problem with one article in the amendment. In the other one, which gives extensions, we are not negative, but in the article you seized the ELPA trade mark, you ignore the debts to seventy workers. We are interested in these debts through the exploitation of the mark being paid and bound by the amendment, namely that there should be a special reference. I have to tell you that for years it has been owed them. They were given very little. They owe insurance contributions. There are workers who were sick and who had no insurance cover because the insurance contributions were not paid. Through this process, you get from this article, but you do not give and cover no employee debts. In this sense, we have asked for a withdrawal to be corrected. The workers must get what they worked for. Their insurance, pension contributions must be paid. You can't get a badge, trade it, win some and the workers for all these years to stay in the air. If you do not make a correction, please separate the two articles, because that is what we cannot vote on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u122	Good. Now we'll give the floor to Mr. Red.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u123	Mr. President, may I answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u124	Mr. Secretary, to complete their speeches or their questions, so that you can answer a total of them. Mr. Red, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, Mr President. I'd like to ask a few questions, Mr. Minister: First, has the paradox for organising the rally been paid by the Greek State? Secondly, does the transfer of the beneficiary or rather the discount of the beneficiary as a beneficiary of a public trade mark, bear net burdens? The requirements of third parties or workers? What about them? We want you to make it clear to us. Thirdly, the amendments to the notices are to the limits of legality. I think that such decisions are not the responsibility of the management board, even with a qualified majority as you define them. A competent and sovereign body shall be the general meeting, which may be convened online. These are our three remarks.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u126	Good. Now we will give Mr Kamine the floor, a special speaker from the Change Movement. Mr. Kamine, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u127	Mr President, we will vote against the amendment because we are basically opposed to Article 1. The amendment does not regulate the debts to workers in IKA. We consider this to be a serious problem, and that is why we shall vote against it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u128	There is no other Member, so, Minister, you have the floor to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u129	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'll be very brief. The signal was seized years ago and has remained inactive. It is owned by the Greek State and remains in the Greek State, for the benefit of the Greek State. It does not go to a private person or to some, as you said, ladies and gentlemen, from the JRC. It remains in the Greek State and is used for the benefit of the Greek State. For the paradox you said, nothing has been paid for. On the contrary, we are working and I inform you that we will have a high percentage of the money that the country will be invited to pay for this scheme by sponsorships, for which, of course, the stakeholders themselves have been active, given the great interest in this very great international sporting event. As regards the amendments concerning regulations, Mr SYRIZA's dear representative, I say that it is a requirement of the sporting family. They are absolutely right, which is why we are giving an extension this year. We did so last year, of course, considering that we would not have to do it for a second year. However, the pandemic and prolonged lock-up in events forced us to give this possibility to the organising authorities this year, to the federation administrations, but always to the increased majority, in order to avoid cases of misconception and misrepresentation of this right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u131	Working people are hanging out.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u132	Do you want to ask the rapporteurs something? Oh, no. We continue with the list of speakers, with the first cycle. Mr Dionysios Stamenitis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u133	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will add to what the Deputy Minister of Finance said that, apart from the private and public sector employees and pensioners who have been withholding their tax, the company is withholding it and depositing it to the Greek State, as far as professionals, engineers on any tariff are cut, 20% withholding and the employer pays it to the Greek State. In fact, when it comes to building permits, there is also a tax withholding, which the engineer himself pays to the Greek State. Now, as far as the Resurrection is concerned, I think we have all seen that this is a common place for the government and the Holy Synod. And we all know that in some villages in Greece, when there is no priest, the Resurrection time is done according to the availability of the priests. I hope, in other words, that it is not the rest to which the President of the Party referred as lamely as these are. Today we are discussing a very important bill from the Ministry of Finance, which concerns state aid to businesses and non-profit-making bodies after the occurrence of the natural disaster, a plan that I am sure we all want and we will hopefully not to have to implement its provisions. Unfortunately, nature's behaviour is not something that we can control and many times predict. But we can provide for and prepare for it. Indeed, as the effects of climate change become more visible, the need for proper preparation and preparedness towards such phenomena is increasing. The fact is that the extraordinary, as a treaty by nature, disturbs the normal flow of things, invades and creates imbalance, brings reclassifications. These reclassifications, unfortunately, can often be decisive for the economic activity of the region, infrastructure, plant production, livestock, but also for the economic situation of natural persons and businesses, which, apart from the objective material consequences they bear, are certainly giving rise to citizens and feelings of insecurity and uncertainty. Here, therefore, the Greek Government and the Treasury come with the current draft law to create a modern, coherent, effective institutional framework, which, firstly, clearly defines how the state will stand alongside the citizens who are each time affected by such a phenomenon, in the way that it helps to tackle it and the means it uses for this purpose. Secondly, it brings together the diffuse, on the issue, provisions that exist throughout Greek legislation to overcome duplication of competence, ambiguity and great bureaucracy, which all cause delay and inefficiency. I think the rapporteur has explained in detail what is envisaged in these directions and I therefore do not need to repeat them. In short, I should just like to say that the forecasts for first aid, advance payment, accelerate procedures, compensate for insured businesses and non-profit-making bodies in the non-safety, duty-free, irresponsible and inappropriate funding, the Regional Coordinator's institution, the establishment of the Government's Committee on State Aid, the use of technology and digital means, which in others ensures transparency, but also the creation of the State Aid Fund, are arrangements that change the landscape in the treatment of natural disasters and emergencies. In short, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a legislative initiative that lays the foundations for a rapid return to normality after an extreme natural phenomenon, for direct support for the affected and for rapid restoration of economic and material damage, which gives citizens and a sense of security, that whenever necessary, the state will be next to them. The position of today's legislature should be noted that the government has given it to address the extraordinary natural disasters that have occurred in our country over the last one and a half years, in particular in the second half of 2020. We have seen this in the case of 'January', with direct intervention, quick reflexes, targeted support measures and quick compensation. We also saw it in the intervention of the earthquake in Samos, where the reaction of the state mechanism was immediate. These have been extremely difficult cases, requiring coordination and effectiveness. However, I would like to focus a little more on Articles 11 and 12, because they concern an issue that we in Pellas Prefecture have dealt with quite a number of recent years. Where am I talking? I am referring specifically to the extension of the grant to agricultural holdings for damages caused by natural disasters and not covered by the ELGA regulation. This is a very important step in supporting primary production, as it covers, we would say, a gap in the regulation of the Agricultural Insurance Agency, which, by changing weather conditions, is growing on the surface. It is therefore clear that the Government of New Democracy invests in the primary sector and creates a framework of protection so that producers do not remain unprotected at the mercy of the weather. After all, it is our main goal that our producers stay on earth, continue to cultivate, invest in primary production, to be biomassed by what they love to do, but also to grow. Having given an opportunity, since we are discussing the issue of protecting primary production and plant and animal capital, I return to the Pella Prefecture, and I would like to say a few words about the consequences of the frost on 8 and 9 April and also about the previous hails. I am making this reference because I believe that we need to look at facilities when we have a total destruction of crops, as in the case of ice cream, to which I am referring, where the damage is covered by the ELGA regulation, but the size of the disaster requires further support measures for producers and therefore the local economy. These may be measures such as suspending tax and insurance obligations or offsetting debts to the ELGA by compensation or subsidising the insurance contributions of permanent staff of manufacturing enterprises or strengthening seasonal workers in processing. It would, in fact, be an important breath for growers, who have literally seen their productions completely destroyed overnight, but also for businesses, which will reduce their turnover to a minimum, but also for seasonal workers, who will not have a job. I think we can look at this, Minister, at all times in the context of the possibilities that the economy and legislation give us. But we must stress and recognise that in this case both the government and the Prime Minister, the relevant ministries acted immediately. And as the President of the ELGA said at the meeting at the hearing of the committee's bodies, the mechanism has already been activated, with the aim of accurately recording the damage, and then fair and quicker compensation for producers. (BS) Ladies and gentlemen, before I finish my position, I would also like to make a comment on the other provisions of the bill, which testify to the Government's commitment to supporting citizens during the health crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy Government and Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis actually prove that the state is here. He is here to serve the citizens and help practically wherever and whenever necessary. The Ministry of Finance with this draft law proves that we respond with proactiveness, planning, responsibility, speed and efficiency. It demonstrates that the core of our policies is essential reforms, aimed at improving citizens' lives, supporting and protecting them. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I urge all of us to support the concrete draft law of the Ministry of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u134	Mrs Elisabeth Scoofa has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u135	Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a very important bill, which has to do with the introduction of a uniform, national and regional mechanism, which from this point on will be called upon to deal with, to alleviate the consequences of natural disasters on businesses and farmers. There is a basic problem. You call on this is an overall institutional protection framework. We say that this is not an overall legislation, that, unfortunately, it is not a question of meeting all the needs of protecting businesses, farmers and natural persons from natural disasters. Why are we saying that this is not a single institutional framework? First of all, the first problem is that a number of issues are raised in future by ministerial decisions, which in itself intensifies the insecurity of the citizen and also does not inspire the feeling of trust that must in any case, much more in the event of naturality, the citizen must have. Minister, in Article 22, you bring and regulate into the ultimate future thirteen powers to adopt ministerial decisions on very important issues, including the amount of the grant in relation to the total estimated loss. That will be decided by the Minister. So the feeling of trust that the citizen must have for the state, when the earthquake does not know, or the flooder, if his production has been completely destroyed, if his home is destroyed, what will the state give him financial support immediately? I attended committee meetings. You have insisted, Minister - and I am very sorry about this - on our rapporteur, Mr Kokkalis, that there is no need for specific legislation that provides that, in the event of natural disaster, all measures to combat the debts of the citizens should be suspended against tax, not just in the insurance funds, but we are also telling the banks. What are you doing? Mr Stagioras has come and tabled an amendment which is supposed to resolve the question with Article 10. We say it is in a positive direction, but it does not resolve it. Why doesn't he solve it? Because, in fact, it says that in the event of naturality again, the Minister with a ministerial decision may -'may', he says in Article 10 - decide to suspend enforcement. So again, the flooder and the earthquake patient will be afraid if any bank home picks him up, if the tax office confiscates the bill, etc. The big question is why you do not legislate by special article and legislation, and not by a last-minute amendment, the forced and automatic suspension of enforcement acts for natural persons affected by natural disasters. One more point. The bill does not cover extremes or, if you like, too much, beyond normal data, that is, weather phenomena. It does not include frost, and let me say that it does not include the unusual temperature rise, the excess for the standard data of the so far burning seasons. By the heat, by the way, tobacco growers in Pieria have been hit several times and have not been compensated. What should you do, then, to tackle at least the glacier as a sufficient cause for mobilisation of this single mechanism which pays direct subsidies, etc.Huh? Or we will change the term 'theory', which is obsolete - as has been said - and will be replaced by the term 'natural disasters' in general, or you will also put in these two cases: frost and excessive heat. As for what the Minister for Finance has said to the committee, Mr Stagiras, that the term "theory" does not change and that the form and content he has is a requirement of Union law, we should recommend this to you. It is the government that will now launch the debate within the European Union on the review of the content of the term 'thembreath', to include extreme weather phenomena, not only because of climate change but also of crisis, which we are experiencing and which we will experience even greater in the future. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like your tolerance, Mr President. Why should at least the ice-cream enter the necessary and sufficient causes for the mobilisation of this mechanism? Because the situation is as follows. As the President of ELGA, Mr Lykorenzos, said at the meeting in committees, ELGA now pays compensation for disasters that took place in 2017. We've got cases like this. They are two hundred thirty oil producers in Pieria, who do not even know if they are compensated by the ELGA. So the ELGA cannot, at least in its form, act quickly and effectively on its own in such cases of natural disasters or natural disasters. Incidentally, it is time after a year and a half that you are in the government headquarters, finally to change the ELGA regulation. We also propose that, as a first step, a legislative mechanism should be introduced to offset the debts of farmers to the ELGA, with compensation to be paid to farmers for disasters due to natural causes. Therefore, a debt offsetting mechanism to the ELGA and due payments by the ELGA. One final point: we cannot in any way mean, justify and understand the fact that the State responsibility for the payment of a grant to the victims of natural disasters is shared, this objective responsibility which each State has - at least the rule of law - with the compensation that this citizen will receive because he has accidentally entered into an insurance contract with a private company. What are you doing here? What kind of peculiar PPP is this and why did you import it?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u136	Mrs. Scouffa, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u137	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u138	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u139	However, this regulation also reminds us of a number of very specific steps to privatize critical public sectors that this government is undertaking in a methodological and anti-social manner. We have to deal directly with the privatisation of subsidiary funds, we have to do with a retirement decision, which Mr Hatzidakis is giving to private individuals, whom the citizen will pay, and we have to do with privatisation of basic infrastructure, such as water, irrigation, energy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u140	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u141	You are extremistly neoliberal and you must leave as soon as possible from the government of the country!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u142	Mr Arvanitides Georgios from the Change Movement now has the floor. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u143	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the growing phenomena of natural disasters and the current health crisis in the coronary have highlighted, among others, the great importance of the state for aid and support for those affected. More and more often, the state will be forced to go to help citizens and businesses in order to get back on their feet after a catastrophic or extraordinary juncture. And while this prospect is clear, and while the government has only recently brought about the reform of the institutional framework for civil protection with Law 4664/2020, unfortunately, it still has a system of multi-determination of powers, which is not solved by this bill. I would also like to point out the unfortunate reference to natural disasters, despite the explanations that the Minister has tried to give to the committee. This should be better defined in the definitions of the bill and anthropogenic disasters added. We cannot speak in 2021 of God's month, when it comes to forest fires, earthquakes and hurricanes, even when these arrangements are brought by the Ministry of Finance, which in some way undermines civil protection and adopts outdated perceptions. For us, in the Change Movement, as our rapporteur, George Kamines, has pointed out, the government should set up a new overall framework for all the relevant issues in a bill so that misinterpretations and confusion are not created. I'm afraid that from the final state we're going to a quarrel between executive ministries and executive agencies with the new structures that you're setting up. And it is a lack of concrete timetables, which commit to an absolute or even relative level of each level of administration. There should be time commitments on how long each department must fulfil its duties in these situations. However, there are, of course, individual positive provisions in the bill, such as Article 6, which concerns first aid - which is a good provision - or Article 8, for the procedure for advanceing the grant to enterprises and non-profit-making bodies. With regard to Article 14 and the Government's intention to create a State Aid Fund as a legal person governed by public law, the Molyviat Fund, I would like to table our own proposal. The Change Movement has proposed a framework for co-formulating, legislating and monitoring for a first climate law in Greece, which must be directly legislated. There, among other things, we have proposed as one of the ten immediate priorities the need to establish an Insurance Fund in order to shield households from extreme weather phenomena in the respective funds that exist in other countries. They were set up in other countries, mainly after earthquakes. The case of Turkey, where, after the disastrous 1999 earthquake, compulsory insurance for all dwellings was introduced, with a subsidy through a mutual fund for natural disaster insurance. Countries of Europe, such as Switzerland, Spain and Romania, have already set up mutual funds for natural disasters. That is why we are proposing to adapt to Greece for extreme weather events, along with the participation of the private sector. And, of course, in such a fund, such as Article 14, a representative of local government should also be involved, as our rapporteur proposed, but it was also a proposal from the CEDEFOP at the hearing of bodies. Unfortunately, Minister, on several issues at your choice you have recently left local government. She's your consciousness, probably, choice. And beyond this bill, there is a supplementary state budget for 2022. The budget of EUR 3 billion is therefore being supplemented. Expectedly, we had anticipated this, discussing the 2021 budget here in December. I personally stressed in my position that the 2021 budget will prove an inappropriate equation, which will not come out. And it doesn't come out not only because of COVID -19, but mainly because of government policy being pursued. And now we have the narratives of the famous "oil of growth in 7.5%", which would come in 2021, to take extension and go to 2022. Just yesterday IOBE slightly sang its economic recovery forecasts and talks about two alternative scenarios for GDP growth in 2021, ranging from 1.5% to 4%. And that, of course, is not for celebrations. Even the best scenario if it is confirmed - because we should not forget what recession is coming - is not enough to deal with the issues of the Greek economy. At the same time, IOBE provides that the budget deficit is likely to reach about 2021 at the same level as 2020 and so, Minister, a number of questions are created, such as: Will this budget extension reach? What will be the impact on the deficit if a large part of COVID expenditure is not covered by the Recovery Fund? Is the government negotiating this? This money is the least available, even for this year. We say that the government and the Prime Minister must negotiate with the European Union the use of part of the resources of the Recovery and Resilience Fund to support measures to relaunch the economy. This issue has already been raised by both Mr Draghi in Italy and Mr McCron in France. There must be a front for this common sense, a front that enables the most vulnerable states to raise their economies smoothly after the end of the health crisis and thus to tackle the public debt of the pandemic by the European Union as a whole. It will be incomprehensible for Greece after the pandemic to re-enter the tunnel of unbearable primary surpluses. That is why we must not only see the carrot of the Recovery and Resilience Fund - 'all something you get' - but we have to face the next day. And the next day in Europe cannot be the closed elite clubs, the next day in the European Union cannot be the most powerful economies running after the pandemic and the winter economies are fighting with new unpleasant austerity policies and the next day in European football, of course, it cannot be the most powerful groups to want to erase the popular features of the sport. The collective effort of European integration, or will be made with all, together, inclusive and undegradable category, or not. And that must be our negotiating goal, the aim of each Greek government in the next few days, for the next few months for the battles that will take place within the Union itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u144	Thank you, Mr. Arvanitides. Mr. Georgios Logiadis has the floor since Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will begin first with the term 'thembreath', the wrath of God, completely inappropriate, punishing, misleading. I shall submit to the Minutes the texts in English and German, which refer to as 'natural disasters' or 'Naturkatastrofen'. The Germans obviously make better use of the Greek language than we do. [[At this point Mr Georgios Logiadis presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The current draft law of the Ministry of Finance consists of five parts. Part I, referring to state aid, has six chapters. Chapter IV, "Competent Institutions", has eight articles and is the largest and most detailed chapter in the whole draft law. This draft law is primarily bureaucratic, and it should be primarily technocratic. It shall designate committees, funds, coordinators, registries, indemnities of committees, addresses and addressing. For example, in Article 14(3), the Board of Directors of the State Aid Fund shall appoint a nine-member Board of Directors. In Article 20, ‘Emergence of State Aid Directorate’, with paragraph 1, twenty organic positions are set up in the Ministry of Finance for the functioning of the Directorate. In a well-functioning state, with clear discretion, these conditions, documentation, compliance and elaboration of the electronic platform and so many other bureaucratic details should not be defined by decision of Ministers and CSR on a case-by-case basis, but these procedures should be carried out automatically, with independence, transparency and directly and not as the ELGA does today for compensation in 2017 yet, otherwise the risk of interoperable and maladministration is at stake. Why should the presidents of the agencies be appointed by the respective government? The Americans say: 'Follow the money', to understand what's going on and what's going on. And today, in the 21st century, we have discovered the natural disasters and are discussing the support of society? Is the President of GATT reasonable to wonder why the experience and the tools of support for enterprises that have developed during the pandemic, which is, like natural disasters, an exogenous economic cause, do not form the basis of the institutional framework under way? Furthermore, we see that there are no provisions in the draft law for workers affected and cannot be reopened immediately. The suspension of employment contracts could also apply to them. The definitions set out in Article 3 of the draft law should include two other natural disasters, which are precipitation and tsunami, which exist in insurance contracts and represent significant risks. Article 4(1) does not include two major branches, fishing and forestry, as the President of the Farm Partnership for Farsalons, nor beekeeping from natural disasters, said. I would like to stress that without bees there is no pollination and without pollination nature dies and, obviously, we then put on wind turbines. Let me remind you that in Minoan culture bee is a sacred element, because it maintains life on the environment and on the planet. There's no life bees. Article 5 concerns grants to insurers and non-profit-making entities which have an insurance policy. This article is a stimulus for someone to be insured because the state is indebted. However, significant tax incentives should be given for the development of the insurance institution. Insurance shall entail low insurance costs due to the large number of insured persons in this case. The right and the right structures contribute in this direction, and not the illegal, clipboards, which create social problems. The state does not, however, have the political will over time to strike off such phenomena, because they support the client state and eventually lead society to despair. The state should motivate private individuals, for example, to install photovoltaics on the roofs of their homes, as the city of Friburg, Germany, which is one of the greenest cities in Europe, even though it does not have so much sunshine as Greece has. The most effective method of dealing with natural disasters is to prevent them as best as possible. However, when public investment and infrastructure projects have been inexistent in recent years due to memoranda and the country is in deinvestment of fixed assets, the best way of preventing it becomes practically impossible. In Part II of the draft law, we have the arrangements for dealing with the consequences of the coronary. Here, for such a big and global problem, we only have five articles. If an undertaking has remained closed or has been at risk for the health of its employees, at risk of risk of business losses and given the depreciation of its facilities, because on an average of 10 years should be renewed and rebuilt, the grant should cover the depreciation of the firm’s fixed capital. Parts III, IV, V of the draft law each have one single article. In your amendment, we see a very wide range of administrative fines from EUR 1 000 to EUR 100,000. There should be proportionality and the administrative fine should not depend on individuals, as it could reasonably refer to a transaction. The current draft law therefore increases bureaucracy and does not effectively address the problems that should be solved at their base. Let us stress here that the injustices should be removed from the comparison of subsidies granted in 2017 to the Lesbos Prefecture with the subsidies paid to the Samos earthquake. The costs of manufacturing and repair licences must also be included in compensation for the affected persons. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. We, in Mera25, have proposed a clear distinction of powers. No government, however, so far has the political will to do so. We also proposed that agencies and committees should have a percentage of public confiscated citizens, such as in ancient Greece, for more transparency. We have proposed the immediate protection of the environment at all three levels that we are active in Greece, as Mera25, as a DiEM25 pan-European and as a Progressive International international, because prevention is the best repression, as we said, for such natural disasters. Finally, we have also proposed deletion of debts to taxpayers, banks, insurance funds created during the crisis and until the situation comes back to the previous data. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u146	Thank you Mr. Logiades, with whom he completed the first circle of speakers with a natural presence. We shall now enter the second circle of speakers. Mr Loverdos asked the Bureau to propose him. It's the fourth in the second cycle. If the colleagues, Mr Charakopoulos, Mrs Christidou and Mr Papadimitriou do not disagree, then we can give him the opportunity to make a statement, because there has been an urgent matter and it needs to be missed. There's no disagreement as far as I can see. Thank you very much to my colleagues. Mr Charakopoulos, Mrs Christidou, Mr Papadimitriou and the Greek Parliamentary Representative, Mr Heitas will be followed. Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u147	First of all, I would like to thank the President-in-Office very much for understanding my request. I would certainly like to thank those colleagues who have agreed to propose, otherwise I would be deleted from the list. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to begin with an issue that does not concern either this draft law or the current political context, but concerns an issue that is extremely sensitive, an issue not of life and death, but of death, a matter of possible murder. Some time ago, some weeks ago, not a few weeks ago, we all learned from the report that our colleague and loved friend, the heroic Shepherd Valyrakis, left the life. The report, as the weeks passed, began to create in us who are not residents of the region, but we are resident and operating in Athens, some doubts whether it was an accidental death or something more, more painful and criminal interest. We can then see that witnesses, who voluntarily come, first of all not to the pre-examination authorities, but on television, on a show by Mrs. Nikolouli, witnesses who finally testify to the pre-inquiry conducted by the Department of Humanities of the Hellenic Police - why the normal pre-inquiry is conducted in Eretria, the Port Authority - and eyewitnesses, finally, denounce that man was beaten before falling into the water. If that is the case, then I call on the Minister of Justice to apply Article 30 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which all lawyers and lawyers know about, and to ask the prosecutor responsible to prosecute here and now. His colleagues in the past have exercised this responsibility. It is not everyday, it is not normal, it is exceptional, it defines how and when - but I think it is a very characteristic case where the Minister of Justice has to function and carry out his duties under Article 30 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, here and now. Because, as has been said - the deceased's wife is in front of this battle - there are trends of localism, in order to hide and, in any case, delay. Four Members of our party, led by Vassilis Kegeroglou, the Secretary of the Parliamentary Group, asked the Minister for Maritime Affairs this question, because the incident was a maritime incident, but the situation now requires the Minister of Justice to activate. I'm talking again, right here and now! The second point I would like to raise, ladies and gentlemen, relates to pandemic and not governmental manipulations, but to government words. We are told that the government will announce in a few hours or tomorrow - I cannot follow it - the measures relating to the Great Week and the Easter Day. The report's direction shows that traffic from a county will not be allowed. That's right, because I think where we're going, it's going to be a charismatic shot for this phase that passes the third wave of pandemic. However, I would ask the government, from now on, to express itself by one. Because, for the past two, three weeks, we have lived from one side to the next to increase the cases, the deaths for which we do not have statistics on what is being caused. We read every day for a hundred, but we do not know exactly what has happened to each and every one of our fellow citizens who lose the battle with death. I would ask the government to speak on one occasion because they have really caused a lot of problems, because the recent ministers, who three weeks ago and without being aware of the fact that journalism is being hanged and the reactions of society are telling us about Easter in our villages and spoke very optimisticly, but, in the end, they are reluctant to do so. Ladies and gentlemen, in the few minutes I have, I would like to make a first point about this draft law and I would ask the Minister very much to listen to me. I want to say something to him that also concerns him as the top minister of this government. Minister, listen. As a member of the Northern Sector, of the old 2nd Athens, I have two cases of weather in my region where the record of damages and compensation for the people affected is neither related to legal persons nor to laws nor to amendments. And what happened in New Heraklion and Galatsi months ago and what happened with "MYDIA" have left behind those damages that have not even been recorded. Minister, as far as Galachi and New Heraklion are concerned, I have lived through my parliamentary control, the crossroads not so friendly to those of the ministers who call for the responsibilities of one and the other and the responsibilities between the central administration and the region, Mr Patulis. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] These anointings - or analgesia, as I understand it better - have led to very long delays, involving people of everyday life and biopsy. With regard to the 'MYDDAY', in discussing with the relevant Ministry, again in parliamentary scrutiny, we have come to the conclusion that, over a week ago, the outstanding issue - among other things, one of the remaining ones - is to interpret the legislation on what constitutes a natural disaster and the avalanche to be interpreted. And that interpretation, which is just two words, three, has been delayed for weeks, for months, with companies and individuals not being compensated for what they have suffered. I leave the others with the branches that are still there, fire risks within a few days, because they will be dried up. They're stacked in plots, in house yards. Whoever lives in the region understands, sees it right away. Isn't there any money? Aren't responsibilities crossed? The State Secretary responsible told me a number of excuses. I was telling him that the House is not concerned with these excuses.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u148	Mr. Loverdo, let's shorten up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u149	I'm closing, Mr. President. I wonder overall, is this a matter that leads to the creation of a legal person governed by public law? And private law was, is it a matter of the functioning of the state and bureaucracy, or is it about the need to still have a legal person? I do not doubt that there are any positive arrangements. Mr Kamines underlined them, but the central core of the resolution and this problem, as well as tens of others for two years, and previous legislation, your own 2020, on this issue, seems to be the addition of a new state, and it is not the acceleration of the administrative procedures, headed by the government. Basically you are a porte - parole, a press spokesman for bureaucracy and as to what you say, to justify delays. I do not have the picture that my colleague Mrs Likikolis has about Larissa and, more generally, about Thessaly and Trikala, which the disaster also hit a few months ago. But I have two pictures of my region, but I hear the same. Either the government will work in accelerating procedures and appropriately steering bureaucracy or changing into a legislator of bureaucracy or a legislator who wants to solve the problems with a new legal person at a time, i.e. with an incomplete solution, as we have seen in the past. Our party, PASOK, the Change Movement has been placed and we will be expressed in the vote in an appropriate manner. This does not mean that we will not criticise where we see that you are operating in traditional ways that have not so far brought results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u150	Mr Maximos Charakopoulos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u151	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, climate change is not an exact farce, as the former President of the United States of America Donald Trump argued. She's present. And the consequences of climate change are expensive, with the ever more frequent manifestations of extreme weather phenomena, resulting in disasters in infrastructure, cultures, business activities, and even loss of human lives. The extreme weather phenomena, due to their particular tension and unpredictable appearance, were perceived by the people as the month, the wrath of God, and that is why they were called "theories". I fear, however, that we alone are causing the wrath of God, the manifestation of extreme weather phenomena by the unwise way in which we manage the planet. Of course, the challenge of tackling climate change and maintaining sustainability and ecological equilibrium is global and, I hope, the international community will take faster and brave steps to tackle it. However, today we are called upon to legislate on the rapid healing of the wounds caused by the extreme weather events. The bill under discussion is a child of need, as the poet would say, as a steward of the recent Mediterranean cyclone, Janus, who ruthlessly hit Carditsa and Farsala. The damage he left in his wake imposed a change in the time-consuming bureaucratic procedures for state financial aid, the other PESAs, which, Minister, are rightly annoyed by farmers. I say 'justly', because even today, four years later, they are unpaid farmers for the damage they suffered in 2017. So it is undoubtedly a good thing that this legislative initiative on state aid to enterprises and bodies affected by natural disasters is a positive initiative. The experience of "Janu" has been taught. The state has quickly demonstrated retrospectively, and this has also been recognised by the representative of the Farmers from the Farsala during the debate in the committee responsible. Today, the standard of "Jan" becomes a boulder, takes the form of a law to deal with similar disasters. Estimates and compensation are prompted, and an advance, a fixed request from farmers and compensation from ELGA is introduced. I would also like to welcome the introduction of compensation to non-professional farmers, which has so far not been the case with the aid of the MAGPs. It would be a good job, Minister, not to limit these compensation to 50% provided for in the law, but to reach 100%, such as the main-professional farmers, as well as to undergo all the costs and costs of their farming, which is also insured in the ELGA. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the draft law is particularly topical, as these days there is a huge disturbance among farmers in central and northern Greece from the damage caused by the glaciers. Deep down is the footprint of the glacier in the constituency of Larissa, which I have the honour of representing at the National Representation. The damage to trees - and not only - crops in the wider area of Tirnavos, the Tempes, Elassona, Agias, Farsalons and Killere are huge, touching 100% of the glacier's finest shot of 9 and 10 April. These damages, of course, are covered by the rules of operation of the ELGA and will be compensated quickly and fairly, as the Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis himself has promised. In addition, the institutionalised state aid of the ELGA budget was made in the days of the Mitsotakis Government with EUR 30 million. Thus, the partial payment of the compensation introduced by SYRIZA - ANEL - is now being abolished and the compensation is being paid at 100%. Mr President, because there is at times a debate on the ELGA regulation and the need to change it with additional insurance cover, we must clarify two things. Firstly, the so-called proportionate study launched by the SYRIZA - ANEL government was a bubble. As evidenced, the only study requested was a viability study of the ELGA. This study by the previous government also proposes, as we read in the press, the 25% increase in premiums paid by farmers and farmers. I put the relevant report from the REAL NEWS in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Maximos Charakopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Secondly - because this is where we must not mock ears - the ELGA premiums do not "grab" farmers, as was said by a Member of the House of Commons. If that were the case, there would be no reluctance of individuals to enter the field of agricultural insurance. I believe, Mr President, that a proportionate study is necessary to incorporate insurance risks that are not currently covered by the regulation. But we recognise that inclusion of additional risks will also mean adjusting the premiums. Magic solutions do not exist nor can the state budget strengthen beyond the statutory limit of the insurance system, because otherwise the country will go into adventures, as in the past with the so-called 'Hadjigaki package'. Finally, I would also like to welcome the extension for this year of the trade exemption to farmers and fishermen and the reduction of VAT to 6% for the medical species that our fellow citizens need, our fellow people who are receiving dialysis. Ladies and gentlemen, the Mitsotakis Government is, in the midst of very difficult conditions, proving its social sensitivity, supporting our fellow citizens who are tested. The bill under discussion creates a flexible mechanism for the treatment of natural disasters, and it is very important that those who do not vote in favour of it are put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u152	We shall now give the floor to the President of the Mera25 Parliamentary Group, Mr Giannis Varoufakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u153	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today, fifty-four years after that abundant night that the tanks were rolling in the streets to put the democratic people 'in the plaster', we remember those who on the next night - a long night were, for seven years - not shattered. We remember that in those days in the name of so-called national genius the patriots launched the betrayal of the Cypriot people, launched a great defeat of Hellenism. We remember heroes and heroes who have endured terrible torture so that today we can see it as self-evident that democracy always wins. Democracy does not always win and memory is not enough. In particular, in a historic phase where modern conquerors and their local bearers do not even need tanks to put democracy on the plaster, the memory of 21 April unravels the determination of the democracies to keep the hope of genuine democracy, people's sovereignty and genuine independence alive. I come to the question of today. You're bringing in, Mr. Finance Minister, an addition to the budget. But what does it mean, ladies and gentlemen, to complete a completely virtual budget, a budget which, only in the sphere of imagination, is moving? What does it mean, on the record, to complete a fantastic budget? It means you add costs to the cost column. And you're doing well. You can't do any different. At the same time, however, it means that in the revenue column we continue to see a summer night dream in progress. You record revenues that you will never collect, just to hide the true size of a deficit in the state budget, given the failure of the Eurogroup and the Eurozone to launch Europeanisation, the transfer of new debts by the states - nations that cannot raise their budgets up these deficits in the European Union, since this has failed since you did not demand what Mr Mitsotakis, in other words a real Eurobond, in order to create a mechanism for depreciating debt vibrations, not to go to national budgets. Once you have failed, you did not veto it, you have not discussed it, you have left it to be done, we are rapidly going to what we in Mera25 have been shouting since March, April 2020, in something you will not say so, but it will actually be the fifth memorandum. From the outset, Mr Stavoura, Minister for Economic Affairs, ladies and gentlemen, we are telling you that when you have such a great fall in economic activity, in an economy that has already been a bad climate for ten years, if you do not lag behind the backlogs of small and medium-sized enterprises, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, in the state, in insurance funds and banks, you are just putting ice on the gangrane without doing anything to combat it. We said from the outset, Minister, that they should get tired, not be suspended. They do not help small and medium-sized enterprises. And obviously we have received the incredible argument that we have again discovered the 'leaf tree' that you have invoked. Where will the state get the money? Can we see them very simple and without any confrontation? There are dues from companies that have almost closed down. These will never be collected. You've recorded them in the column of imaginary revenues. You won't collect this whatever you do. And tormenting the small-medium has nothing to give you. The only hope is if you do it to him, don't put a lock on it. It's not certain. And trimming them can put on a locker. But if you don't do it to him, he'll definitely put a lock on it. If you do it to him, there's a hope not to put a lock on him, to start giving you revenue when the economy starts moving again. In other words, we have said so again, but as long as the'mediums of mass deception' which reproduce as if they were the press releases of the government the same absurd logic, you continue in this pattern. Refusing the mere thought that, at the moment, cutting off arrears you'll never get is an investment in having time revenues, otherwise you won't have it. You've recorded the revenue column of fantasy revenues you'll never have. This "left tree" of yours. You invoke the 'leaf tree'. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, our economy, our social economy, the world out there, faces two very great threats to the post-Centre. Sometime we'll get through the pandemic. Unfortunately, we don't get over it as quickly as we could. This is our criticism of you. But let's put that aside. The pandemic will be gone sometime. This is where the pandemic of 1918 left, which killed up to a hundred million people worldwide. She's going to leave, too. The problem is what the threats that this already cracked social economy faces after the pandemic are. It's two. They are the threats facing small and medium-sized enterprises, especially young people, women and vulnerable people. The first threat is the growing stock of potential bankruptcy. Operations that have not been officially closed, which receive returnees, are keeping the ATM open. They do - and they do well - so that workers continue to get the 500 euros. We know, however, that we are being called shopkeepers and even New Democracy fans, that they have already shut down, that furniture has also been put out through the shop. This is the stack of potential bankruptcys, which we will discover, and you and you, when the pandemic is gone now. Then this stock will come down to the head of the Greek economy. And the second threat is the stock of values. Just to say, it's the stock of the euros that's about to leave the country. For the first stop, for the 'tsunami' of the locks - we have been mentioned, I will not tire you, Minister, once again, just once again and soon - without the haircuts of the late debts this stock will come to accumulate and fall on the head of our social economy. And you'll have the responsibility that with the inhibitions all the time, like a kid who broke a vase and tries to hide it by hiding it under the carpet, you're inhibiting it instead of haircuts. However, it is not just the tsunami of the paddocks. The crisis has taught us various economic conditions for those who are not economists, such as the multiplier, with crimes, both theoretical and political crimes, of the troika over the years. The multiplier has been taught by most Greeks, as after an earthquake they learn about the shooters, etc. But there is another condition that you know, Minister, the 'economy accelerator'. The multiplier, the accelerator. The accelerator is based on how the economic activity affects investment. Not economic activity, but investment in particular. This is the accelerator of growth or the retardant of growth, which, when very large, leads to a greater recession. This accelerator, we know that well, depends on the underlying dynamics. The paddling that will enter today or tomorrow after the end of the pandemic, because you do not do the haircut, will contribute to the growth of the retardant or reduce the accelerator. In other words, we are losing momentum in the years to come, because you are not making haircuts today. It costs what you do not do today or what you do today in two, three, four, five years, as far as the accelerator of the Greek economy is concerned. I now come to the second part I said, which I did not explain. I talked about a second stack. After the stockpile of locks and bankruptcies I talked about the value-sharing of euros that will leave the country. Here we come to the issue of red loans, we come to the issue of mining enterprises, casinos. All these businesses have one thing in common. They come here to act to get their profits abroad, both "ELDORADO" and casino, be sure. They don't come here with charity - if they come in after all, if they find them with Mr. Latsis - and the predator funds from Delaware and New Jersey certainly don't come to get market revenues that you made with the "Hercules" of the red loans to keep them in Greece and develop the Greek economy. The Cayman Islands will go to Luxembourg. We know very well where they're going. They're coming, buying a loan of 100,000 for 3,000 or 4,000 euros, and they're gonna get 20,000 euros from it by getting it out of the hammer. The difference, the 17,000, will go abroad. There'll be an export value. In other words, it is very likely that, Mr Stakoura, when we have recovered from the pandemic, this is an interesting phenomenon: the Gross Domestic Product may even come up, but national income will come down. I do not want to bore you financially, ladies and gentlemen, but here is the future of our country. Other Gross National Income and other Gross Domestic Product. What's the difference? Gross National Income is GDP minus the income of foreigners in Greece leaving abroad. If they come here, then, they get what is good - the little gains that exist - whether they are in the real estate market, in red loans, or gold, or the casino, GDP will appear to grow. Every euro that gets a predatory fund will be added to GDP. You will come here and you will triumph: "Look, I have raised your GDP." At the same time, the Gross National Income will be reduced, while these euros of the "parallel" funds, Mr Latsis, the American casino company, Eldorado, will leave and go to the Cayman Islands. So far, you have told Greek citizens that "all right, it's okay, it's reduced your income in euro, but your real income has increased, because the inflation you're facing is negative". The inflation that the retired or the small- and medium-sized ones face is not bad enough! It is most positive, but you are negatively affected by inflation, because the basket of goods and services purchased by the very rich, who spend the most money and have a greater specific burden therefore on the calculation of inflation, is cheap. But for the world, prices are rising, prices have less euros, they pay more in the supermarket. And you come to tell them that their purchase value did not decrease 10%, 11%, 12%, but 8.2%, because, he says, they had negative inflation while they didn't. Now you're gonna do the second one. At the time the euros enter their pockets, you will tell them: "No, they have not been reduced", because you will be counting on this "ELDORADO" money and the "predatory" funds that will go abroad. Why? Because instead of talking about Gross National Income, you will be talking about Gross Domestic Product. This is a major threat to the country, because it worsens the country's balance of payments. Whatever values, gains, revenues in this country, the "paracists" will take them abroad, you will be glad that GDP has increased, but also the retardant will grow, further reducing real investment. Because what OPAP, casino, ELDORADO is not real investment. Real investment is in companies that create good jobs for Greeks and Greeks. In the face of this forefront - because we are talking about a decline-front, a gambling front, a exploitation front so literally - we are pulling out gold and taking it out to the Cayman Islands - as well as transport - the exploitation of workers, we see the work that you are preparing for us or preparing for our bosses, who are your bosses - and, in front of all of them - and now I am addressing the world that he hears us - we need a new collectiveness. You, those government, individual responsibility. Of course, individual responsibility for you concerns only the many. It's none of your business. You have no individual responsibility either in the way you conduct your daily life or as a government. Only where it suits you put the ball of individual responsibility to many. You have students to self-test. If that's possible! I have no objections that a student can do self-test too, too easily and find the right result. But aren't you telling me, did you ask his parents or her, who might have to stay at home six days and lose their cut if this kid stays at home and is isolated? You put these new children and parents or workers who do a self-test and who are positive and their boss comes in and says to them, "Do you know what? I'm ready to go. Don't say anything, because if you admit to being positive, I'm gonna have to shut down the store and get everybody in a quarantine. We're ruined!' That's not individual responsibility. That's a sadism government. You put your own failure on the person, on his shoulders. They blame us - and they do so on mass deception channels that work as your press offices in the past hours, days - us of Mera25 and me personally that we do not trust the citizens, contrary to you who trust them. Talk to Mr Chrysochide about how much he trusts the citizens. Anyway. If you trust them so much, remove the tax. Tell the citizens to decide for themselves what taxes they have to pay and send to you. You don't. Tell the students to score themselves. You don't do it and you don't have to. The only case you do is with self-tests, because you want to hide the fact that you have not heard what we have been telling you since March 2020, namely to build a public network of mass testing centres so that people can, with a state-of-the-art bogeyman, know that these days I am negative, I am positive, I can circulate, I cannot release and give financial support to those who have to hide in their home for a week, for two weeks. You have not done this and then you are talking about the confidence you have in the individual responsibility of the citizens. You're pretending to trust the citizens. But citizens don't even pretend to trust you anymore. We trust the citizens. We trust them that they are deeply aware of two things: that the solution comes through a collectiveity and on the basis of a joint, very specific programme on what should be done for red loans, taxes, dues, tax debts, public debt, investment, what the country's development programme should be. That is what the new generation demands: a green industrial revolution development plan and a programme of disobedience to the nonsense you bring from Brussels and the so-called recovery funds, which is a fig sheet, so that what must be done in that country is not done. We trust citizens that they understand that their personal responsibility is collectiveness, collective front and a common, structured, concrete economic and social development programme. And something else they understand. They understand that the personalization you are trying to guarantee their personal misery and it is also personal irresponsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u154	Thank you, Mr President. We will now give the floor to Mrs Rallia Christidou from SYRIZA. Then, as we had announced before, Mr Papadimitriou will be followed and immediately thereafter the Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution. Here, Mrs. Christidou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u155	Thank you very much, Mr President. Let me begin by saying that today we remember with sadness the black anniversary of the coup and after the seven-year anniversary, with the country on the plaster, a period of oppression and unliberality, which resulted in the tragedy of Cyprus. We remember and honor the struggles of this people, the struggles and sacrifices of the Greeks and Greeks who fought for the freedom of this country. Ladies and gentlemen, we are coming today to discuss a bill that, as a start-up, comes to heal a real need. The natural environment has deteriorated so much that extreme weather phenomena, natural disasters are no longer so rare and are often so extreme that relief from their results is not enough to do so on a case-by-case basis. Of course, closer to this, another approach is needed on the issues of good management of environmental resources, renewable energy, environmental protection and preparation, of course, of the state machinery against the growing phenomena of climate change and climate crisis. Following the enormous damage from "January", the earthquake in Thessaly, this bill could introduce a general supportive framework as a reserve for the future. It seems, however, that the government's good intentions are exhausted in the general context of the draft law. First of all, the bill that entered the consultation was fifteen pages, it contained twenty-two articles, but in Parliament a text of thirty-two articles came, and Amendment 855/141/16-4-2021 was also tabled, which still contains thirteen articles. This, ladies and gentlemen, is of course not the case for the first time, and it is enough to characterise the whole final legislative process, quite simply, as a sham. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] The draft law mainly concerns the establishment of a framework for state aid for businesses and non-profit-making entities. So, what's he doing? Excludes natural persons, excluding households. In addition to this, the framework is largely void, the procedures for the majority of them remain deliberately unclear, suspected ministries and, starting from the end of the process, from the most procedural part, but which is, as it seems, the essence of the New Democracy, a new, parallel structure, another bureaucracy, which will manage funds, a new address at the Ministry of Finance with twenty new officials, with additional procedures and delays. Is that the small, flexible and undivided state? Is that the vision of the New Democracy for the Greek public administration? And these, while the General Secretariat for Civil Protection already exists on the one hand, the ELGA for farmers, on the other hand, which cover a wide range of responsibilities, for which legality is theory. Briefly, a parallel mechanism is considered to be created, with general and unclear features, which will control grants. All that is important in taking and implementing the decision in question remains vague, in order to clarify, where appropriate, what else? With ministerial decisions. At the same time, a State Aid Fund is also set up, which will provide aid in parallel to the State budget, in a way of managing and disposing of resources defined by a joint decision of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Development, but the rules of operation of this Fund remain unclear, and the reasons why it is necessary to operate the new framework. Even the definition of theory, ladies and gentlemen, in the relevant article, does not have any specific scientific, economic, social or other characteristics, which clearly delineate it, such as the size of the damage, intensity, extent of the damage, etc. It is also unclear where the funds will come from, where the funds that will cover grants and projects to restore damage from natural disasters will come from, as the Public Investment Programme, with its registered funds, is not sufficient for this purpose. It also does not specify exactly how this aid will be granted and what amounts it will correspond to, as a decision of the Ministry of Finance is needed to determine the exact amount, the exact amount of the first aid, the way, the time of payment, everything. Let us stress that even those who have been compensated by the floods of 'January' have been given an advance for seven months and the majority of the beneficiaries have not known whether and when there will be any other aid. To be fair, we of course welcome the decision to accept and include in the bill the amendment proposed by SYRIZA for the extension of the final date of subjecting to the regulation of Law 4611/2019, which will give a self-evident, valuable credit for citizens who really need it. Article 26 finally refers to an emblem in the extension of payment of the public rate of 5% on hospitals from chronic dialysis units. The previous arrangement was more than 30-6-2021 by the end of the year, thus offering another graceful arrangement with a credit to the clinical authorities, while at the same time depriving the public and the National Health System, which fights helplessly with the pandemic. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill you have put to the vote, although in theory it moves in the right direction, is a legal framework that offers no particular area of consultation, as all the important content will then be determined by you by ministerial decisions. Your efforts so far to support the productive groups of the country in pandemic, with this firm refusal to express - refusal really - the small and medium-sized ones from part of the pandemic's debts, such that will enable them to rejoin the production game, and it is well known that close to 90% of them are excluded from banking lending, does not in any case allow us to be optimistic about what you really intend to do and about the victims of the natural disasters. I'm hanging up with this, Madam President. Do you know what, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy? We know very well to SYRIZA that anyone who governs will also make mistakes. But you - and that is the problem - show that you have not understood anything at all, you have learned nothing of your mistakes. You repeat the same mistakes, you are unrepentant, you are for a few, you do not listen to society, you do not even listen to your own voters. And you know what? The time has come for you to turn to them again in the middle class, but it will be too late for you. Because then they will remember that only SYRIZA and SYRIZA will be able to solve their existing problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u156	Thank you very much, my colleague. Immigration and Asylum Minister Mitterrand Mitarakis has the floor now to talk to us about his amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u157	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to support the amendment with a general number of 857 and a specialist of 143 from the Ministry of Migration and Asylum, which attempts to settle financial outstandings of the Ministry from 2017 until today to the local government agencies, suppliers and workers, expenditure that has been outstanding for years, by administrative burdening the Ministry. It concerns expenditure which is, in essence, correct, but not according to its type, according to public accounting. Overall, expenditure relates to EUR 445,000, of which 84%, i.e. EUR 375,000, it relates to expenditure incurred on the country's previous governance. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u158	Thank you very much, Minister. Now Mr Papadimitriou has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u159	Thank you very much, Madam President. The bill under discussion has a great quality. It sets order an area in which, unfortunately, the Greek state has never taken care to do what it needs, so that we know how it assesses the damage, how the damage is paid. Since we entered Europe a large part of the damage, of course, especially to agricultural crops, agricultural production and agriculture, has gone to Europe. And it is expected that this was one of the first things Europe created many years ago. At the same time, however, the bill we are discussing and which enjoys great approval in Parliament - and this is very good - enables the state to take a step forward. The only problem, Mr Minister, and Madam President, is that it is mature for the country to go two steps ahead and even though we are taking half a step towards the second, we do not do so. Fortunately, the New Democracy Government suggests something that goes without saying, that, if we do not have people to think about their damage, they will never properly assess their property or the risks they face and will not be able to know that we are dealing with a natural disaster - which we obviously cannot predict, at least we cannot predict when it will break out - we will not be able to be insured. This adequacy of insurance is what it takes. One half, then, is stepping up, because private insurance, that is to say, a sector which in Greece is underdeveloped, is going to be able to get people, professionals, farmers, all support that is not dependent on the state, and you will allow me to say that it is not dependent on the politician, it is not even dependent on the heat with which the MPs have always been - and I imagine all the fact is that they are running to help people when they are suffering the catastrophe. I would agree with Mrs Manolakou, who has developed the general theory - today is Keynes' memory, so I am referring to the general theory - that the state would do everything well. It has even proved - because there is historical experience in this - that the state could destroy an entire people in a few years' time, which it refers to. However, unfortunately, what our dear colleague has not told us is that the state in which she is elected at the same time cannot at the same time value the losses in their actual value at the market value. They appreciate it as it suits them. Therefore, by putting the concept of private sector involvement, we are also putting the concept of a proper valuation of losses. I would like to give you three figures which we have heard in discussions with the committee as well. Greece is the country where we are less insured than any other state in Europe. The premiums as a percentage of GDP in the European Union are around 7.5% of GDP, in Greece it is 2.2%. In Portugal, to take an example that is not far from us, it is 6.4%. We spend EUR 377 per capita on insurance, 1,258 on Portuguese, 2.170 on the average of Europe. And think that this mainly corresponds to housing insurance, where only 16% are insured and from 16% are compulsory 10%, those with loans are obliged to insure the property that has been placed in a mortgage. We therefore have a long way to go and, above all, we have the possibility of better insurance and insurance. This is the next step, and since we have now taken the first, since we have put the rest of us on the way, we must do what remains to organise the insurance in Greece better. Mr Charakopoulos said very well, it is the way to properly assess the risks. It is the way to put new risks and to be able to compensate them. Therefore - and I conclude with this - we must dare to take the next step, since, moreover, the insurance companies - Mr Minister of Finance, you know that better than me - already have the reserve - and they have to have it - a reserve close to 17 billion to cover the damage. I think it's time to see compulsory housing insurance. I wouldn't say earthquake. It is much harder, especially in our country, to value it and we should not put a burden on the taxpayer, which can never be measured, since we do not know when the disaster will come to us. Although where we would agree with Mrs Manolakou is that we know on many occasions. Mr Kokkalis said so, the state can prevent and, above all, we can take measures on climate change, which is a major factor in the last few years of the disasters that we have in Greece, or at least the intensity with which these phenomena are manifested. I think that the majority supports the government's actions, which are very courageous in this very area. I would have nothing more to say, because I think there is a general agreement, and I would literally not have anything else to add today if I hadn't been reminded by the previous speaker. I am pleased that younger people from me who were born after the end of the dictatorship - fortunately they did not last too much in Greece! -, they remember very well what happened and why it must never happen again. I would not literally have anything to add, if, this morning, my fellow Members, in full freedom of the press, which I will continue to support as much as I disagree with anything, were not committed under the cover of the SYRIZA's leadership to present a first page that they want, playing with symbols - that is where we came to conclude that the morning of April 21st in the same newspaper did not know what happened to them - to present that, with symbols today, Greece still lives in the dictatorship. Shame on you! I present it to the House so that the younger people who will always remember and appreciate the dictatorship in the right way will not forget it. This is the way to disgrace, it's the way to a new dictatorship. Watch it, gentlemen of SYRIZA. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u160	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution, Mr Hetas, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u161	Thank you, Madam President. They said enough about the bill. I will stay on some of the things that the New Democracy Parliamentary spokesman has mentioned, because we cannot turn the back or not know what is going on out there today. I think it is moments of reflection, self-criticism and perhaps no public apologies from the government, despite such words being heard in here. What kind of words? They tell us that the New Democracy Government has used the best way to deal with the story of the coronary. Obviously you have no contact with reality, because out there the problems are too much and it is impossible to say in this Chamber and in this Greek people out there that unemployment has fallen and you are proud of it. The sooner you calm down and try to speak honestly in the world, the better the result. I read a moment ago that you took a decision on 4 May, namely after Easter, to open the focus on conditions, etc. You've made eight months to understand that, but the focus will open. In fact, politics is not always good and useful. I wish we hadn't been justified in everything that we proposed, because the result is negative. We were entitled, but the country is destroyed. We were right to everything. We're right about Lockdown, which is catastrophic. We said it from the first moment, but you said yours. We told you you couldn't keep the Greek enclosed. Nothing, yours. We told you that outdoors are better, Greece we are, we have good temperatures, we have good weather, let people out. You don't. I remember like now, when we proposed the molecular tests to Mr Kikilia - I will not have his image removed from mind ever - which looked at us with a question and an irony and said to us: ‘What are you now asking for molecular tests? It's like asking for world peace. Is this done?’ That's where you come to our talk! We had said from the first moment that we were too alert to vaccines. You see what's going on. They stop, they start, some retire, some fear, some people don't do and it makes sense. We didn't say anything absurd or something crazy or something special. We said the logic. We told you about Sputnik. You need to see all this. We can't get through to the duke. When we told you about Sputnik, and what you didn't say that day! I remember them. Seven, eight months ago, this happened. Now we'd also have co-productiond, taken money from the country, had vaccines and other vaccines and not only Sputnik. What can we say now? We unraveled you - and I am sorry to say this - here we were, ten days ago - with the self-tests, with that famous company SWISS MED and the revelation we made here, that ghost scandal and I will present it in the Minutes as soon as I finish my speech, which the SWISS MED company is inferred. On the basis of the tender, he ordered three million self-tests against 10 million euros. Money with the shoe! We revealed the scandal and after three days, a divestment company. Who knows what it was doing here? I'll submit them to the Minutes later. What else can I start with you? We had said months ago, give the public access - this is also a very big scandal - the minutes of the committee. You said there's no record, we have nothing. Well, there are no minutes, but today everyone will be in place. Who decides? I do not know whether the Finance Minister, who represents the Government today, will do so, I do not know if Yannis Brutsis, who is the Parliamentary representative of the New Democracy, will do so and tell the world who decides. Practical on 12 March 2021. I'll put it all in the Minutes. Take these, it's the meetings minutes. Practical report of 12 March 2021: The Secretary-General for Budget Policy, Mr Petralias, speaks of the opening up of the port trade and the stimulation of State revenue. Chiodras is briefing on the ugly epidemiological picture. The Committee accepted the reopening of trade. So Petrelia's not Chiodra's. So how do doctors decide? It's the minutes, see them, read them. The second practical point is 9 March 2021. The Minister of State, Mr. Gerapetritis, tells them what must be done. The committee legalises the measures that the government decides, although some scientists disagree this time. On 26 March the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of Undersecretary of the Prime Minister, Mr Scortsos informed scientists about the self-test design. Mr. Chiodras is documented to disagree on almost everything. The committee is used as an alibi by the government to impose the measures it wants. I'll submit to the minutes the minutes of the meetings to see. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Very quickly, Madam President, two more minutes. And this subtle continues - because it is insidious - hunting against the Church and Orthodoxy. It's unbelievable what we're living for. Did you put the Resurrection at 21:00? What is Resurrection? A final cup in football? What time does it make for us to put it? We put the Resurrection at 21:00? There's a mess out there. I will not go to the marches, Mr Stakoura, a month ago, supported by the leftists. I won't say about the coronary, which is the result of your mismanagement, with people being indignant. And you can't control it anymore. Instead of the government creating developments, it runs behind developments. And now you come to the easy victim, to the poor Christian. You put it at 21:00, like it's a theatrical performance. What do you think? At 21:00 an hour? Will you raise Jesus the second day and not the third day? World patent? Will you resurrect Jesus Christ earlier? It's never happened before! Why didn't you give the same instructions for Ramadan? Why don't you force Muslims to stop fasting before sundown and finish their families' meetings at 9 o'clock at night, which also has a curfew after night? Why? And I will close, Madam President, because I really don't have the time today, but some things go beyond us, and we have to do a little bit, because it's hard conditions out there, to calm down, to think, or to ask what you're doing. It's an incomprehensible challenge to photograph the Minister of Labour on his birthday as Superman. Mr. Hatzidakis Superman! They made him a Superman cake. Why? He erased his cake candles yesterday in the same way as he erased Olympiacos, OSE, in the same way he erased people's pensions, in the same way Mr. Superman erased the candles yesterday. Well, don't you see them? So, he's happy with it? People starving, out there is death and despair, and he's playing superman, the man of special missions? And the image as an image is the epitome of political scorn and the arrogance of power. That's exactly what it is, that's exactly what it is. Mr Hatzidakis should also understand - I do not know what aims he has and what he has in mind to achieve, these are inner parts of the New Democracy and we are not interested in - that your time is running out of time and that the sand in the cliff has begun to turn backwards. Take the hammer. Because the world's really out there, and it doesn't save you either Superman or Spiderman or anyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u162	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Mrs Papanatsiou has asked for the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u163	Madam President, in Mr Papadimitriou's report I wanted to answer that we do not receive lessons from the man who asked for a more serious Golden Dawn. The parallelism of the Left with dictatorships is one and the same with the theory of the two extremes. None of us will forget the torture that during the dictatorship was part of the extensive plan for power and enforcement, exiles, militia and prisons. In the name of all these fighters who have defended them today, we must stand up to the circumstances. Today we are striving, to have access to public health, not to break down social freedoms and labour rights on the pretext of pandemic. In such times surely the solution is always given by the struggling people. I call on Mr Papadimitriou to withdraw from the Minutes what he said.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u164	Thank you very much, my colleague. Mr Pinheiro has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u165	Madam President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, tackling climate change and its catastrophic effects is one of the most important priorities of the current government. These are developed at a political, economic and operational level with a number of measures, serious, necessary for citizens. However, it is vital that in the event of natural disasters, financial aid be guaranteed to those affected in a coordinated, rapid, effective and fair manner. Unfortunately, the current framework is fragmented and, of course, ineffective. We all experience it, we all see it, and we collect it roughly many times. Today we are establishing a holistic and flexible institutional framework that tackles the pathogens and restores the sense of security and confidence of citizens to the state. It is planned to develop a coherent framework for the grant of the natural disasters affected by natural disasters, and not only by developing appropriate support tools and demarcations to speed up procedures. A process of coordination of rehabilitation and support measures is set up in cooperation with all the Greek Ministries and Central Services involved. For the first time, the framework is being simplified and calculated in terms of strengthening first aid, which is a one-off aid, aimed at directly alleviating enterprises from the state for the first critical moments. Specialised service structures are being set up, which will undertake the assistance procedures of the affected areas. The establishment of the National Committee for State Aid is very important. A Regional Coordinator of State Aid is hereby appointed as the permanent link of each affected regional unit with the National Committee of State Aid. State Aid Committees are set up in the regions responsible for recording and assessing damage from natural disasters to enterprises and non-profit-making entities. Finally, a recommendation is provided for in the General Secretariat for Economic Policy of the Ministry of Finance for State Aid. The process of financial support is becoming more effective and faster by digitising it. At the same time, the scope of the beneficiaries of compensation for damages caused by natural disasters is widened, a provision that fully responds to the sense of the rural world of the acronym of Evros, as it extends explicitly to the main industrial farmers as well as to farmers' holders. For a month we have all witnessed the two parallel extreme weather phenomena in the Prefecture of Evros, with incalculable damage mainly to central and southern Evros, with the unprecedented tragedy of the loss of a human life strain of the Fire Corps. There were unprecedented damages to the territorial competence of land municipalities, such as dwellings, crops, businesses, irrigation water systems and infrastructure. The government in the face of the size of this disaster has proved to be directly effective reflexes. In fact, all the co-legislative ministries showed a good mood and intent and efficiency, in support of all those affected. Minister, thank you from the Step of the House for the sensitivity and affection shown by your Ministry's services in our sensitive prefecture. Evidence is the double visit of the present Secretary General Christos Triantopoulos, who, after instructions, visited you all the affected areas. Listen to me, everybody. Radiate the affected area accurately. And, of course, the relevant decisions and communications on the procedure for compensation for the affected were followed. Of fundamental importance is that the government has heard us. We are already pleased and pleased by the decision of the Ministry of Infrastructure to move forward with the construction of the Great Dereio dam. It's a decades-long dream that incorporates it into the Public Investment Fund. The technical consultant has already been selected to prepare the tender documents in order to show the designer from the competitive process. The mountainous volume of Soufli, ladies and gentlemen, will flood again in the next intense weather phenomenon. Likewise, the valley of the Red Cross will be destroyed, as has been the case recently. The three catchment areas of Evros will continue to drown us if the studies and implementation of the three dams of the prefecture, i.e., Dereio, which I said before, the Souflii, the Aspronei-Double-Double-Double-Double-Double-Double-Double-Double-Double-Double-Double-Double-Double-Double-Double-Double-Double-Double-Double-Double-Double-Double-Double-Double-Dan. If we don't check the water volumes, we'll talk about compensation money. This government is already launching projects which were an inappropriate dream of decades for the Hebrews. We lay the foundations for Greece over the next decades. In the context of this long-term planning, I believe that the projects that I have mentioned are going ahead and not just. This bill includes, ladies and gentlemen, a number of regulations relating to the treatment of the consequences of pandemic in the real economy. Among other things, support for the primary sector is envisaged, which is also the heavy industry in our prefecture. Exemption from the obligation to pay the trade fee is provided for the principal farmers of the normal VAT arrangements and for fishermen of coastal fishing. Ladies and gentlemen, the government promotes substantial reforms, prioritising the relief of citizens, ensuring that the economic life of the affected enterprises is restored after an extraordinary treaty and through it the support of the national economy and the normalisation of the country's economic life. The state acquires operating mechanisms by making progress. It contributes to this draft law, which I am voting for. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u166	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Stagioras has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u167	I'll talk after the speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u168	Then we will give Mr Tryphona Alexiadis, a member of the SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u169	Thank you, Madam President. Our meeting is taking place today on an important day. It's a day black for democracy, a day black for the country's history. It is a day of great remembrance, however, both for the country and for the parliament. It is a day of remembrance and honor, especially for those who died, tormented, suffered the consequences of the anti-ritarian struggle, in which all political personnel, especially some protagonists in the coming years, did not participate. It is a day of honor mainly to those who did not redeem after their dictatorship, fights, persecution, torture. It is a day of memory and an obligation for all of us to protect and show democracy as a supreme good. How is the government today dealing with the functioning of the House today on this particular day? What's the House doing today? I will pass over and act as if I had not heard what he added to the various emphatically stated at times by a Member of the New Democracy. Two years ago, I remember she was saying to close and tear down the hospitals. By demolition, he meant not to stay like this and open again. Today he added to all of this another phrase. He talked about compulsory housing insurance. Minister, I imagine you heard that. You should then get in position. Is the Ministry of Finance planning compulsory housing insurance? Notice when this proposal came. After one argument that the money paid by the Greek citizen for private insurance is low and we need to increase them. So we need to increase the income and profits of insurance companies. That's how he came. Not with any other arguments. But on this point you will speak, Minister, I imagine, you will be placed. So what does Parliament do today to commemorate in the sense of memory on the day of the devastation of democracy? We are discussing a bill with procedures that do not honor the bill, which do not honor the House. And as I have said, Madam President, it is not personal to point out that the Bureau of Parliament has to decide whether it will be limited to the role of allocating speaking time or whether it will decide to defend Parliament's honour and prestige. We can't work like this. Parliament has changed to a deposition of the so-called pretext. ties and suits don't give seriousness. I put a tie on it today. The political speech and the political act give serious consideration. So what do we do today? We started with a bill of thirty-two articles, which, of course, in consultation with the Ministry of Finance, was much smaller. And I say in the usual practice, because I was listening to what you were saying about a state of accomplishment, I was listening to Mr. Gerapetti, and I was listening to all that you were saying, and I thought that, anyway, you would abstain from everything you used to say as a New Democracy. I'm afraid so. And in these and the rest you follow the same tracks. So you came here and started a bill with thirty-two articles in committee. The committee ended on Monday afternoon. Before the committee finishes, it was announced by the Minister that there will be amendments to the House. I wonder why they were not discussed in committee. What role does the Economic Affairs Committees have? Today we have come here to discuss a bill of thirty-two articles, to which twenty-eight articles have been added. The last amendment was tabled at 15.40 p.m. I hope that by the end of the bill, at least we will know how many amendments will be taken. It is thirty-two articles initially and twenty-eight of the amendments tabled. You consider this to be an epitome of an executive state, an epitome of good legislature, a proper functioning of Parliament. I really want, Mr. Finance Minister, to congratulate you. You have an amazing ability as a party, as a government - not personally - even a bill that could have been unanimous and that everyone voted, that you bring it in such procedures and in such a way that you create problems. It's obvious. Our rapporteur and our parliamentary representative have quite rightly analysed this with their parliamentary experience and with the experience of farmers because of the areas from which they come. We could all agree and consent to this. But in the course of the debate, if I were not obliged by the party procedure and by the collective operation of the SYRIZA, I would say that we should not even be here in this Chamber and participate in an insult of democracy. It's not the only thing, unfortunately. It's not the only one. In the short term, I will refer to two examples. We have tabled a question, Mr Minister, since 16 March, twenty-six Members of SYRIZA, on the Corinth Canal and on the great problem that exists, as it remains closed and there are significant implications for shipping, tourism, tourism, development issues, on many issues. We've testified her since 16 March. We didn't get a reply until today. Of course, we saw the Prime Minister go there. I do not want to deal with his visit - because there are videos, I imagine, in the political history of the country - and in what has been said. But will you answer the questions put by twenty-six Members? Will you tell us when the canal opens? Will you respond to these economic and political issues? It is not a question of answering Alexiadis or twenty-six Members. It is a matter for Parliament. In my brief time, another question to the Ministry of Finance, since the Minister for Finance is here today: to give congratulations to your press office, Mr. Finance Minister. I everywhere, where I make public speeches, say that the press release issued by the Ministry of Finance on 14 April, in response to SYRIZA's proposals on private debt issues, must be read by all Greeks, especially the executives and voters of the New Democracy, but all Greeks. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] A slight tolerance, Madam President. Because it contradicts and different situations which are problematic, fascist and contradict, but it does not respond to specific issues. And since you are here today, I would like to ask why I am reading your texts, you are costing and saying things: in our proposal for a special irresponsible account for businesses and freelance professionals, which is something they ask, Mr Papoutsis, even representatives who are from your own political area, why do you not do a costing and you do not answer a yes or a 'no'? In conclusion, I would like to say that once again you are bringing a bill to the vote, insulting the House's Scientific Service, which gives you legal lessons even on simple terms of the Civil Code - I am not legal to appreciate it or not, but this Service we have in Parliament - and it raises very simple issues. Once again, then, we have a bill without answering these issues. Once again, we have a procedure that offends the bill. I, by signing and copying what your MEP, Mr Kyrchos, says, I urge you: Pick up the pieces!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u170	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. The Minister for Finance has the floor now, Mr Staikoras, to place himself on his amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u171	I shall speak with the amendments, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u172	Normal, good. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u173	Thank you very much, Madam President. One key element in which one can assess the correctness of a legislative initiative is to listen to the opposition, to hear its criticism of the draft law. I have had the opportunity to hear two chairmen of Parliamentary Groups, two parliamentary representatives and the last speaker. Not even a second did they dedicate to the bill, not a second! Two Heads, two Parliamentary Representatives and the last speaker! A strong demonstration of the correctness of the contents of the bill! They had nothing to say, nothing, kich! Secondly, I would like to table the practical legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u174	There is an outstanding opinion, as you know, on the opinion of the PWN. Because we cannot intervene in the analysis of consequences for legal regulation, this will be done with an interpretative circular. All ministerial amendments are accepted. No parliamentary amendment is accepted. That's all about the procedure. I will develop the basic body of the bill, I will speak, as I always do, only for the bill - that is what we are discussing today - and I will speak for both amendments. In the report by my dear fellow Member from CSR because we have brought it up lately, I would like to remind you that the country since 2018 - for your days - has been under enhanced supervision, which means that it is assessed every three months by the institutions, which means - and I am very honest with this - that the content of the second amendment we tabled today and today in the negotiations with the institutions. The country from the summer of 2018 to the summer of 2018! - it's under enhanced supervision and we're being evaluated, Mr. President. So that's why. And because it concerns tax declarations that will start after Easter, which is why today, although we made a press release yesterday to inform you and society, we tabled it. I'm starting at the core of the question and the core of the bill of thought. Ladies and gentlemen, the government has shown that it acts quickly, effectively and decisively, to limit the adverse economic and social consequences of the coronary pandemic. It has fast reflexes, monitoring and following the dynamics of the health crisis. In addition to dealing with the pandemic, however, it was also called upon to deal with the exceptional circumstances caused by the existence of natural disasters and natural disasters during the same period, which required continuous and immediate intervention in support of the affected households and businesses. And we did this quickly, methodically and responsibly. To this end, the Ministry of Finance introduces to the Greek Parliament a set of provisions on state aid to businesses after the theoremia. Ladies and gentlemen, following the first direct and necessary interventions in the legislative and regulatory framework that took place in the second half of 2020 and with accumulated knowledge following the recent disasters and a large number of affected ones, the need to speed up the process of reforming the existing framework, so that the state budget and mechanism operate in exceptional and unforeseen conditions coordinatedly, without overlapping between the ministries involved in the financing process, with the aim of economically strengthening the affected ones more quickly, targeted, with a coherent plan and efficiency. And as I said to the committee, as we made a statement as the Ministry of Finance, in the Minutes and in the plenary, I put the full social accountability of the government's events in the two recent natural disasters in Samos and Janus, because we like the complete transparency of all elements. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the Minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In particular, as far as government policy on state aid reform is concerned, I note that it is also aimed at dealing with chronic diseases. We did not - or are - confronted with all the problems, in particular the lack of effective coordination and strategic planning, the lack of effective rapid recovery policies for affected persons, and the lack of effective and simple restoration procedures. These pathogens have in the past made it difficult to implement public policies at operational level, making it a brake on achieving objectives of government policy. These led to the passing of years - indeed, of years! - for those affected to receive state aid or even several times and not even take it. The Ministry of Finance, after a long consultation of almost all the ministries, through cooperation with institutions and professional groups, but also by assessing the problems and weaknesses identified at the level of local government, proceeded with tabling the draft law we are debating today. You know very well that we have incorporated comments from both SYRIZA, KINAL and other parties - but also our own initiatives. You know very well that I can accept any positive proposal, but do not get to the other end, say some people actually imposed provisions on the government. Because the suspension of enforcement, as I have said in committee, was ready for tabling an amendment, not that we were convinced of any Civic Opposition. We did something the government and the governmental majority thought it was right. But what is the purpose of the bill? Firstly, the creation of a comprehensive, coherent, simplified, transparent and citizen-friendly framework for grants to enterprises affected by natural disasters, so as to allow the restoration of normality in the economic life of the affected enterprises and local communities as soon as possible. Secondly, the provision of a procedure for coordinating rehabilitation and support measures in cooperation with all the ministries involved, which will allow for a holistic picture of the needs of the restoration and implementation of these measures. Thirdly, the provision of the creation of a special and specialized structure within the Ministry of Finance for the operational management of support schemes for enterprises and the Greek economy, in order to ensure the necessary service to the measures to address the natural disasters and to all measures and regimes to deal with the consequences of the pandemic, which have been created in the last period and have been promoted by the Ministry of Finance. The reform effort on the part of state aid to enterprises and bodies is on four main axes. The first axis is the reform and strengthening of the grant mechanism of enterprises affected by theories combined with the formulation of appropriate support tools each time and the delineation and acceleration of procedures. The aim of this axis is to address the fragmentation of competences and legal gaps, to ensure the speed in the implementation of the targets, to enhance the effectiveness and quality of the results, to achieve the coordination of the procedure and to extend the framework to agricultural holdings. It is apparent from the letter and spirit of the proposed legislation that the framework is established at the same time as ensuring concrete and adequate guarantees for compliance with the State aid rules, as they are first laid down in Union legislation. Under the proposed arrangement, under specific conditions, the covered area of the grant is also explicitly extended to the main occupational farmers and to farmers for a lesser percentage. The second axis is the coordination of procedures for the promotion of aid and recovery measures at national level, which provides for and seeks to address delays in the business grants process. The coordination comes through the establishment of the Governmental Committee of State Aid, set up by the Secretary-General of the key ministries involved and also by the President of the ELGA. Already by Act of Ministerial Council, the Government's Committee on State Aid has been set up and is ready to start its work. Third axis is the digitisation of procedures, by setting up an electronic state aid platform in cooperation with the Ministry of Digital Governance. This digitisation will make the process of financial support quick, simple, effective, able to control and cross-check data and declarations. And fourthly, it is about creating conditions for the mobilisation of society by setting up a State Aid Fund. The Fund, with strict rules on accountability and transparent rules of operation, will provide a subsidiary to the State budget for the restoration of natural disasters. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law also includes other provisions and amendments which demonstrate that the Ministry of Finance extends and extends the protection net to households and businesses to mitigate the effects of the coronary pandemic and set the ground for the day after the end of the health crisis. In particular, as provided for throughout the rest of the bill together with the amendments, the Ministry of Finance, firstly, excludes the obligation to pay the fee on terms for farmers and coastal fishermen. Secondly, it establishes a temporary measure of State aid to undertakings in the form of increased special-purpose compensation for undertakings in which restrictive measures are applied. This compensation is non-repayable, duty-free, unexpected and irresponsible to the hands of the public or third parties. It is not subject to any reservation. Finally, the levy is not bound and is not offset by certified debts. Third, it is exempted from the obligation to pay the total rent and for April April the leasers to the establishment of the designated undertaking for which special and exceptional measures have been taken to suspend or prohibit operation. We are talking about a measure which had not been proposed and which had not been supported by any opposition party for months. As far as owners are concerned, I would like to inform you that last night an additional payment of about EUR 16 million was made to about EUR 90 000 of VAT, outstanding for the period November 2020, January 2021 and reasonably in a few minutes will be paid to the owners of EUR 200 million for the months of February and March 2021. Fourthly, it is possible free of charge to transfer real estate belonging to the Ministry of Finance to the regions for housing by decision of the competent body of the Minister of Finance. This transfer is intended to address the problem of the normalisation of arbitrary structures, the modernisation and energy upgrading of buildings through ESDP programmes and other programmes, and the issue of the required certificates to have a modern building used for public and public purposes, for example access ramps to small and medium-sized enterprises. At the same time, the savings of funds from public services and the improvement of working conditions for employees and employees are achieved. On the basis of requests already submitted by the regions to the General Secretariat of Tax Policy and Public Property, the provision relates to at least nine buildings in the regions of Western Greece, Central Greece, Ionian Islands, Peloponnese, Western Macedonia, Central Macedonia and Eastern Macedonia. I have more specific information, if necessary, on this. Fifth, it provides that workers' claims for the payment of all or part of the compensation on account of termination of the contract of employment, which have been incurred during the last two years before the undertaking was placed under special management, are predetermined by the product of the special management and are attributed to the beneficiaries. Sixthly, the Ministry of Finance receives new institutional intervention in the direction of tax relief and facilitating households and businesses with a view to social justice. The amendment we tabled to the House a moment ago, after consulting the institutions, includes, inter alia: the provision for the possibility of payment of the income tax for natural and legal persons in eight equal monthly instalments, the provision of a discount of 3% for natural persons, provided that the statement of income tax is submitted by 28 July and the tax due, resulting from it, is paid only until 30 July. Includes the possibility to submit the declaration of natural and legal persons by 27 August, with the payment of the first two monthly instalments, the provision for the possibility of paying HICP in six equal monthly instalments, with the first instalment in September 2021, the elimination of taxation, on the basis of the objective living criteria for those affected by the pandemic, since in one of the two previous fiscal years there was no application of the alternative method of calculating the minimum tax. Includes also the non-enforcement of the debtors and taxpayers over sixty years of the tax ad valorem resulting, if the amount declared by electronic transactions is less than 30% of the actual income, the reduction in half for persons not covered by the above-mentioned case of the tax increase resulting from a declared amount by electronic transactions, which exceeds 20% and less than 30% of the actual income, the exclusion of the exceptional income from the determination of the actual income, calculated on the basis of the minimum amount of expenditure by electronic means of payment. In addition, the exemption of hunters who issued a hunting permit for the 2020-2021 marketing year from the obligation to pay for the public, provided that they issue a hunting licence of the same type as the previous hunting year. Seventhly, in order to implement these other policies on many fields and fronts, including health, we are tabling a supplementary budget, increasing the appropriations for the ordinary budget by EUR 3 billion for 2021. I will repeat that the amount of measures, which today estimate will be required to support households and businesses affected by the koruna pandemic, is estimated at EUR 14 billion from EUR 7.5 billion in the state budget. The proposed regulation shall be promoted in the context of measures already taken or planned to be taken in order to enable it to be implemented. Ladies and gentlemen, today's legislative initiative is the culmination of efforts for full, immediate and effective relief from citizens, but also the proof that the government remains committed to its objective of substantial reforms, a commitment confirmed by the priority given to the relief of citizens, the elimination of the risks of economic shocks from climate change and the restoration of normality in the economic life of the affected enterprises, following an extraordinary treaty and, through it, the support of the national economy and the normalisation of the country's economic life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u175	Thank you, too, Minister. The Parliamentary spokesman of Mera25 Mr Gregoriadis has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u176	Madam President, thank you very much. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to begin my speech in response to Mr Drasakis, Mr Katrakakis. You know, ladies and gentlemen, at Mera25 we always talk politically, especially when we are given the honour and the opportunity to speak from here, from the Step of the Greek Parliament. We did this, as we do, and last week, when we denounced publicly, from this Step, Mr Drasakis, saying that as Vice-President at the time of the SYRIZA Government, it turned against the social system, fighting and finally succeeding, after a whole year, in bringing the regulation that the CSCE dreamed of and demanded by Czechoslovakia Mr Ziegler. As far as I am concerned, at least if someone in this life feels that from what someone else has said, the price and reputation of the person is in any way affected, I suppose - logically I suppose - that he should then turn against the person he thinks has raised him. First of all, it seemed that the dear Mr Drasakis would also do when he announced something like this with his tweet on April 16, in which he said he would not leave any slander unanswered. I don't really know if I understand the mistake, but Mr. Drasakis' answer finally came from what seems to me again through his well-known elite face - name and not a village! - in the Committee on Games at the time, Mr Katrakazis, who, in fact, did what he did instead of reply? He sent out-of-court documents, and not to me personally! Let me take note here of a serious paradox. Merra25, as I have explained to you, has simply issued a communication which reproduced only a few of the words that I said here last Wednesday or Thursday - I do not remember - in Parliament. So it is at least paradoxical, in my opinion, that Mr Drasakis, who continues - from what has been done these days - should represent Mr Drasakis, for he should turn himself into an outlet against a party which simply reproduced a statement and not, of course, against me, the one who made the statement. To finally decide, please, whether he was ever in the life of the independent member of the Committee on Games or was always just the water buffalo of the OPAP and of Mr Drasakis. Because, in my opinion, the way in which my statement last week is finally responding from here is an entirely option for Mr Drasakis himself, I would like to say that I believe that he clearly demonstrates the deplorable position in which Mr Drasakis has finally arrived. However, the political question remains unanswered. That is why I shall repeat it, ladies and gentlemen. Why did the regulation that finally applied to the OPCW fruits since November 2016 - and while the chairman of the Committee on Games Mr. Stergiotis, honest Mr. Stergiotis, had already left the committee since June 2016 - and was adopted by the Committee on Games is simply a faithful, faithful copy of the letter of the OPCW, which was then presented by his famous chosen Mr. Drasakis, the gentleman I mentioned to Mr. Stergiotis, even taking the message from the then Vice-President of the Government - in in introductory reading - 'for knowledge and compliance', as he himself said? Instead of tweeting Mr Drasakis, with which he will again promise that he will not tolerate a fly in his sword and that the truth will shine in his own interests, will he not answer us more directly at some point how this paradoxical phenomenon with the OPAP and the Committee on Games explains how to end? Let's do it. I shall speak quickly, because I do not have much time in the middle school. I would remind everyone here - so that nobody does not think it can be irresponsible - that we have re-issued - as we will always do every time until the pan-Hellenics - the amendment to the summer high school. It is an amendment that lifts the injustice of stopping the premium for these people, who are not equal to other children. They're big kids and they're working to study. To return the 1% premium to graduates from mid-September in an attempt to enter the universities. And to see how much we are not robbing anyone, in our amendment we have simply adopted the letter of students from thirty of a summer high school and ten clubs of teachers in them. That's what we're doing. They themselves ask their teachers to do so. Now, you will allow me to mention a little bit of the wonderful anniversary that we are today, on 21 April. All right, I hope that the country has been demolished and'standards' are no longer there. However, wouldn't it symbolically be nice for the government to have managed five and a half months later to have captured the only real pigeon we know with a boulder and a name, Mr. Christos Poppas, who's been fiercely fleeing the arrest for six months now? Today is the anniversary of the imposition of the junta, of the suppression of democracy in the country. Grab the Pope at last! For as long as it is free in the territory or Europe, democracy has not been restored in our country. Dear Mr Staikora, let me just say in passing that for culture your budget spends 324 million. But not for culture. For culture and sport. And since the stones also know in Greece that more of them will go to sport, I tell you that half of them will go to 162.5 million a year. I'm sorry, but with such an amount in the state budget, would you like to have culture? Well, you won't. It's more obvious. Madam President, if I can use the three minutes of my dentistry, as my Chief spoke. Otherwise, you will be tolerated a little overrun by me. What do you think? Do I?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u177	Do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u178	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Stavoura, because I listened to you in depth - I always listen to you and respect you as an economist and as Minister - and you are very careful to say that no one has said "kich" about the brilliant achievements of your ministry, I would like to say that for me, it is enough right from the outset, in response to Mr Alexiadis, because the amendment has come now and you do not bring it tomorrow in the bill that will be put into committee to discuss it. You said - you said it a moment ago - that "the institutions and the enhanced supervision, which you," to SYRIZA, have "you have imposed on us since August 2018." To say this, to the Greek people know that you have dismantled all the financial tools. You don't have a budget, Mr. Stakoura. Don't look last year and last year, there's an exception. From time to time you must have a primary surplus of 2.1%. I'm an actor, I've said it before. However, your elementary tool as Finance Minister is budget and elementary tool is to decide whether you have surpluses or not. I say, therefore, that Article 30, by which the budget appropriations for the Ministry of Finance are increased, and in particular the special body - the 3 billion - in order to finance actions related to the implementation of measures to address the negative effects of the coronary, is another right, Mr Stakoura, for us in Mera25. Do you know why? Because we have told you from the outset that all your State budget forecasts for 2021 for dealing with the pandemic - but not just for it - were all completely out of reality. You are now coming as a government and adding appropriations in kinds of ballistics instead of economic policy, after having handed over your financial tools for eleven years in Brussels - not only you and the five previous governments - to be good exemplary captives for you so long. So since acceptance by your Government, like the five previous ones, of the role of the ideal prisoner in Brussels, forces you to take the money for public investment - you have confessed it today to the reason of your bill - and instead of spending it on public investment, to spend it to just "get" holes, how do you expect our country economy to recover at some point? How do you expect our unemployment to be reduced at some point and the padlocks to fall? In any case, and with us, I would inform you, and almost all of the Greek people are just waiting - I beg your pardon for the strictness of the expression - to empty the corner, finally stop ruling. And we hope, when you finally leave, that no more Memorandum forces will come to the government again, which have already ruled with bright, bright memorial success, whether they are called SYRIZA or called KINAL. We are waiting, Mr Stavoura and ladies and gentlemen, for us to dream, hope and fight the next government that this people will elect to finally call the "soft liberation" for all of us. We expect, hope and fight, with the help of the Greek people and in his name, to finally dawn the day that will mark the national and social liberation of all of us. Thank you very much, Madam President, for the tolerance and you, ladies and gentlemen, for listening to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u179	Thank you, too. The Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement, Mr Katrinis, has the floor right after Mr Vassiliadis, Mr Bukoros and Mrs Papanatziou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u180	Can I have the floor for a second, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u181	You're welcome, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u182	I would like to address the Parliamentary Representative of Mera25. Mr. Drasakis has given his answers to an official press release on whether or not he has anything to do with it. We have nothing more to do with it. We absolve the motives which Mera25 raises these kinds of issues each time in plenary.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u183	Thank you, my colleague. Mr. Catarini, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u184	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot begin, on the occasion of today's anniversary, by the fact that fifty-four years ago a group of jurors destroyed the democratic freedoms of the Greek people, leading to the betrayal and tragedy of Cyprus. And today I feel the need to refer to those who resisted the dictatorship. To the last-named fighters, who have now read the story threshold: Alekos Panagoulis. Spyros Mustaklis. Shef Valyrakis. The crew of the destroyer ‘BELOS’. Andreas Papandreou, founded by PAK. The people who came from the conservative party and made their stand against the junta. The Panagiotis Canellepoulou, the Angel Spiritual. Of course, Mikis Theodorakis, who is still with us, a living myth, but also a history of this country. But also in the simple and anonymous fighters, all who were imprisoned, exiled and tortured for their ideas. On this day remembering and honoring resistance to the dictatorship. Remember what Andreas Papandreou said with strong and clear voice, that democracy is not a right. It is acquired and acquired in a daily race and it is a matter of permanent struggle. Ladies and gentlemen, the continuing debacles in government communications have unfortunately become routine for the citizens, who fight and are inconvenienced at the same time. You cultivate, gentlemen of the government, constantly expectations of openness and regularity to the citizens, with the sole criterion of communication, publicity and political costs. I have to acknowledge that in this informal fight of government ministers to be pleasant and procurers of good news the present Minister for Finance has held the most responsible and sober attitude. And I'm telling him that I've been most critical of him. Nevertheless, as a government, you are on a path of pandemic populism, since while you know that what you promise is not going to happen, you insist on saying it, you insist to reproduce it publicly. What should I first remember? Statements by Ministers for the Opening of Market Sectors for Easter? We should have had some time to talk. Confidentiality with the citizens has been shattered, as contrary to what happened in the first quarantine, where the committee, under Mr Chiodra, was proposing and the government was listening and accepted, it is clear for some time now that the government is now seeking to point out, but also to intervene in the decisions of the Committee on Logistics. Your choice, ladies and gentlemen of the government, to hide the problems, so that you do not have a political cost, and to place responsibility on the opposition, on the other hand on the young, on the third in committee, even in time, has evolved into your great inability to govern effectively, namely, the choice of valid and effective decisions and measures. Measures are ineffective. The National Health System has been in red for too long and the economy is cooling. Let me give you an example. You announced on 1 April a focal point aid programme. We saluted it. We hear and read that at 6 p.m. the Prime Minister will announce that he will open the focus immediately after Easter. And that's right. We are, however, asking how the catering shops will be opened without having this necessary working capital you have announced since 1 April, is it supposed to give them the opportunity to relaunch, for the first difficult period? So this shows that you do not have a specific plan and a strategy. What's your strategy? The strategy of switching the painful decisions, Minister. All decisions, at random, shall be transferred for the period from October to December 2021. The real estate auctions go 16 July, basically to start on 1 October. For arbitrary demolitions, you give a six-month extension. To object to forest maps, you give a six-month extension for quarantine tax obligations by the end of the year. To harmonize commercial objective values, with 20 real estate taxes in the new year. Some bad option would say that you want to set the ground to possibly prepare national elections before October, without having open fronts. But what is the main problem? The main problem is that you are constantly shifting matters without solving them. Because problems remain. For two hundred and fifty thousand real estate auctions have already been announced for the next five years. Because the matter with forest maps is not merely solved by a six-month transition. For 20 property taxes increased will come at some point when harmonisation takes place. And because, of course, the debts that are being transferred are now unbearable. And we say it, because yesterday ING included Greece in the dangerous countries for massive bundles as soon as the economy starts to work. What are you doing today? You propose eight instalments for the income tax. So what do you tell professionals and natural persons? You say that on 1 January they will pay an income tax instalment, a pandemic debt instalment, an HIS dose, current debts to taxi and insurance funds and, of course, do not forget the instalments of bank loans. As far as the bill is concerned, we put it at the outset and said that we have no objection to reforming and strengthening the relevant institutional framework. But to clarify the responsibilities, to define the conditions and finally to speed up the procedures for the relief and strengthening of the affected. After all, there were no few cases - and you, Minister, told the committee yourself - where the aid in question was paid in the past three to five years, and it often found the firms that had been entitled to this subsidy closed. We have told the committee, colleagues have said it in this Chamber, I am sure they will also say it in their speeches on the delays in 'January', in Samos, in the earthquakes in Larissa. This draft law retains a dreadful framework of multi-determination of powers, while there is no binding timelines for management, which is a key problem in all natural disasters and extreme phenomena. We have proposed that local government should take responsibility and resources to tackle these disasters. For example, on the positive side, our rapporteur, George Kamines, said that we are in the first place supporting the bill. It is a good thing that a relevant electronic platform is being created, that the provision of emergency first aid up to the level of gross per head of domestic product and many other issues. But it is paradoxical, first of all, that the Ministry of Finance is rushing to take the lead from Civil Protection, which is responsible for coordinating the prevention and response of natural disasters, while in the area of rehabilitation it is simply limited to the participation of a Secretary-General. Giorgos Kaminis rightly pointed out that in a natural disaster, civil protection, the Ministry of Infrastructure, in the case of natural persons, the Ministry of Finance, in the case of businesses, and the Ministry of Interior, in the case of OTAs. A problem is at least the initial failure of the nominal reference to natural persons as beneficiaries of compensation. We believe that this gap should be closed. New instruments and multi-level structures are being created, such as the State Aid Fund, which is a new distinctive structure. Minister, you reminded me of Mr Mollyviat's special emergency fund, which was set up in 2007 on the basis of the murderous fires in Elias. He raised over 198 million euros. The money was transferred to the Special Firear Aid Account and a significant part, in proportion, was given to other areas characterised as firefighting, without, of course, having the size of the disaster of at least Elias and the Peloponnese. I asked you a question. You have answered, I have to say, that there was a sum of 61 million, which was committed, but you have waited, if and once some projects have been awarded, for them to be redistributed. I would like to ask you whether there are currently available in this account and whether you have made some planning for the distribution of money from the Molyviats fund, which, I repeat, was collected on the occasion of the unprecedented tragedy in Elia. In the bill you are right to include provisions for the protection and support of farmers and farmers. Indeed, you in your speech stressed that you have a web of protection and support not only in the bill, but as a government as a whole. Just because last year, if I remember correctly, you announced that you would give the Ministry of Rural Development 150 million to support producers because of COVID. COVID remains. The loss of income to producers continues. So I ask you directly: in 2021 have you budgeted a budget to cover producers throughout the territory who will suffer loss of income due to COVID? And I'm saying that, because farmers, they're saying, with the interregional movement and Easter closed down, they're gonna have the same income loss they've had last year. Secondly, you say that you support farmers. There are serious objections from many products for which they have not been compensated. There are serious objections, Minister, to the speed of compensation. Already many COVID-related products are waiting for four and five months, with commitments, with decisions that have not been implemented. The day before yesterday, we had ice-cream that hit Macedonia, Thessaly, the Peloponnese and Central Greece. Mr Lebanese on a question I asked him the other day said that we would have the second fortnight in May. The first estimates through ELGA speak of a set of indemnities that exceed EUR 200 million. You know, this is a problem, since the total of the ELGA budget for allowances of EUR 2021 is EUR 170 million. And I ask: have you decided to grant ELGA additional funding to meet the obligations? Will you speed up the process by integrating, if not as a naturality, some such cases as extreme weather, so that they do not go to the ASEAN and not delay three or four years? And will you finally exempt from tax, insurance and banking obligations for farmers and you agree that they are affected by extreme weather and natural disasters? This, of course, means a reformed budget. You come here, you make budget reform, 3 billion more. We discussed them in December in the debate on the draft budget for 2021, a budget which predicted a growth of 4.8%. You have until recently said that this objective is possible. You said 4.2%. I'm asking if you insist that we get a 4.2% growth. But it was a budget based on three main assumptions. The first was that we'd have increased revenues in 2021. The AIA figures show that for the first two months of 2021 we have reduced revenues of 1.57 billion, a lack of revenue. Also - second assumption - he was talking about tourism revenues of 11 billion. You re-evaluated it recently and said that 8 billion is a realistic objective. The National Bank says even less, 7.7 billion. I hope you and the National Bank will be disproved and more of the proceeds. However, the target of 11 billion on which growth was based at 4.8% is not achieved. The third assumption was the rapid absorption of the recovery fund. We're waiting. We've submitted our different approach to targeting. I wish that will also be done with quick conditions and conditions. I will now make a quick reference to the other articles of the bill and to the amendments, although the rapporteur will be mentioned. As far as the end of the trade is concerned, you are right to extend the exclusion of farmers and fishermen. However, the commercial world, Minister, does not understand why you do not make a proportionate reduction in the companies that have been closed down with a government mandate almost half a year. In other words, there should be a social dimension and a proportionate implementation so that overweight people who, in fact, could not function. So I think you should reevaluate that. I would say, in fact, that you will have to reassess it today and, if not today, very directly, so that there is no sense of injustice. Article 9 of the amendment, under the general number 855, called for it, Mr Minister, in previous bills. I think that it is right that an injustice is lifted for workers who are in businesses that are in liquidation and should not feel that they are really treated in a different way. As far as the hunters who, this year, really, have not been able to carry out their activities - I know that in Phytotida has too many hunters, and I am sure you have been disturbed by them too, that they felt that they were drowned and oppressed by it - you say that you are exempting them from the end of paperwork. I would say that you will re-evaluate the licensing scheme as a whole and make them a more favourable treatment in cooperation with the hunting clubs next year. However, the main thing is to enable them to exercise - the period allowed - their activity, of course, because we all agree that, beyond this crisis, we must also find our mental balance beyond social cohesion. I think that in this doctrine and in that sense, since the government now understands that the measures taken by the Lockdown have not only yielded, but - as it seems to be pragmatically - confused the citizens, who are very anxious about the present and future of them, always move carefully and always with degrees of flexibility and freedom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u185	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Now Mr Vassiliides has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u186	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we have a very important draft law that comes to give the necessary tools to the state to cope with the effects of the biggest, perhaps, threat of our generation, of climate change. These effects are becoming more and more evident in the form of extreme weather phenomena, causing extensive damage to homes, businesses, infrastructures, crops. European legislation goes on. Today we have had the successful development and conclusion of the negotiations for the European climate law. We also need to move on at national level. The draft law proposed by the Ministry of Finance is, as I said before, a toolbox, so that immediately after the hit of a natural disaster, as laid down in its provisions, there can be a clear demarcation of the impact and the need, in such cases, to speed up the procedures. In addition, digitalised procedures are provided for better coordination of operators and more rapid re-establishment of impact through a single State aid system. Thus, we can have a rapid restoration of the normality of the local economy and a minimised impact on the national economy. With the draft law under discussion, simple and automated procedures are now being created to grant companies of natural persons, farmers and non-profit organisations, which, beyond speed, also impose more justice. I know, Madam President, some points, such as Article 8, which stipulates the advance payment procedure against a grant. It is very important that the importance of direct financial support for the liquidity of the affected is recognised. We have seen cases of delay in the payment of compensation for up to two and three years in the past. I also distinguish the provisions of Articles 11 and 12 on the grant of subsidies to farmers and farms, always within the framework of the Greek Agricultural Insurance Agency, but also by recognizing indirectly, in cases of extensive disasters caused by natural phenomena, that the regulation has weaknesses. Ladies and gentlemen, farmers are better aware of the importance of resistance to climate change and the need to adapt to the new reality that imposes us. Unfortunately, this circumstance of voting on the draft law is confronted with another unprecedented disaster for the Greek countryside. There has already been extensive reference to the debate in the committee responsible, but also today by colleagues, in the devastating continuing ices of March and April, which affected regions of Macedonia, central Greece and the Peloponnese. I will pass on my personal experience from my district, Pella. I have visited over a hundred local communities in the past few days and have really been a disaster such as this for many years. And as if the frosts hadn't arrived, we had in the last two days a heavy quartzing, which destroyed what was left over the trees. We are talking about a loss of production that reaches 100%, especially in trees, such as cherries, peaches, kiwi, but also in vegetable crops. Of course, losses of this size mean a shortage of products, which in turn deregulation the entire supply chain of food, transport, cooperatives, manufacturing, industry and exports. The need for support from all these enterprises is essential if we want to maintain jobs, both permanent and seasonal. What is important, however, is support for growers. The catastrophe came just before the harvest, when the expenses are on their takeoff. Production is open to businesses, today, now. They can't expect to be compensated in time for February. We have explained beforehand the importance of liquidity assurance. Exceptional cases require emergency measures. We need to overcome the procedures that have been foreseen in other, past times. Unfortunately, the ELGA cannot respond to a disaster of this size, we all know it. The Prime Minister from Corinthia has said so, the regulation has existed since 1950 and needs modernisation. There is a need for state aid, and here I would say Community aid. I will give you three examples. A producer of peaches in the Galatads, Arseni or Polycarp can currently have a total production loss at 100%, having done all of its costs, yet, based on the ELGA rate, it can only be compensated for about 61.6%. Second example: a producer with fifty acres of cherries in Arabic - also 100% catastrophe - to be compensated will have to pay contributions to the ELGA of EUR 4,000. Where's he gonna get that money now? Last example. Another producer, with cherries claws this time, located in a mountainous area, of the mountainous tumor of Edessa or Begogitis, does not even know whether it will be compensated, as ELGA has not made a loss announcement for this particular production, which was, he says, in pre-anthic stage. Still, we're still talking about 100% loss. So, in order to return to the draft law, Madam President, it needs speed, justice and efficiency. So we have to deal with extreme phenomena, like this, but also theories. Fortunately, the government seems reflexive again. It has recently been demonstrated by the management of the impact of the 'Janue'. This draft law incorporates the lessons learned from that Mediterranean cyclone. I am sure that both in the future, but much more in the current disaster than the icebergs, and the government's hail will do it again. Once the size of the damage has been captured, we will have a proper timetable, with realisation and with a package that will spread a protection net to all affected. In conclusion, Madam President, I would like to address my colleagues from the opposition parties and invite them to support the draft law. Furthermore, with regard to the disaster that we have to deal with now, it is time for cooperation and not for the auctions or the scavenger of such a crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u187	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Bukkokouros from New Democracy has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u188	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, you know that I never speak with a personal tone in Parliament's Chamber, but since there is a person in the Chamber who I appreciate, and in his parliamentary decency and in his political ethos, Mr Alexiades, you will allow me, Mr. former Secretary of State for Finance, because you have put a question - and you, like no one from Opposition, have referred to the bill and its content, but you have raised an issue - which is the irresponsible account of small and medium-sized enterprises and commercial stores, which is indeed a burning issue. But I would like to remind you, my dear Mr. former Deputy Prime Minister, that after the second time left, that is, the elections in September 2015, I had asked you a timely question here about the need for an irresponsible account and you came to your credit - if I remember well, it was October 2015 - and you said that the proposal is very correct and we will adopt it as well. But what did you do? While I offered you an irresponsible account of 70% to 80% of the turnover, in order to be operational and to have some meaning, you went to the institutions and said "an unconfidential 100% account". And the institutions rejected and lost this opportunity and the period of the memoranda and the period of increased surveillance. Not that it was necessary to establish it, but, when we lose opportunities in the context of one, if you want, political pillism, then it is a little pointless to ask the government to put it in place now. Because we had the opportunity then to establish such a necessary account. In any case, this as a comment, I think, and we all agree that such tools are always needed, especially for an economy that comes out of so many difficulties.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u189	He did it...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u190	However, you have not implemented it, although in honor you have accepted my proposal and said that it is necessary. It's just in the tampering and pillowing that's always distinguished SYRIZA, you've asked for 100% of the irresponsible account. How would that work? I suggested 80%. It may have been accepted and not discussed today. We're going down now because the bill is very important. It is very important that today's bill, because it is, ladies and gentlemen, about climate change, which the global scientific community is proving every day more and more, whether it is periodicity phenomena, extreme weather and disasters, that we will always have. And when I say "periodship," what do I mean? The infrastructure today, bridges, streets, buildings are built for a periodicity of phenomena per hundred, fifty years. If we have an extreme weather phenomenon which is repeated every five hundred years or every thousand years, no infrastructure will last. And will anyone wonder why we don't build infrastructure that can withstand periodicity of five hundred and a thousand years? Because they're going to cost five times the cost, ten times the cost, and so on, that's why. The state must therefore legislate, it must build the tools. Only anyone who has not experienced the agony and fear of the flooding, the desperation of earthquake patients, can only understand the importance of today's bill. Because, ladies and gentlemen, with extreme weather phenomena, it is not just the focus that loses. It's gone, and the property is lost, shops are lost, business is lost, farms are lost. And that's exactly what's coming to legislate in a comprehensive way today's bill. We will all remember, after natural disasters in our country, the clichés phrase: 'Where is the state?', after a flood, after a disaster, after an earthquake. We were all looking for the state after the damage. The current state, the current government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, with the specific leadership of the Ministry of Finance and legislation, provides for what will be done in such cases in a coordinated manner. It is therefore this bill of reform, because it simplifys the procedures, because it designates a Regional Coordinator who will play the role of bridge with the central state, because it establishes State Aid Committees for the Recording and Assessment of Damages, so that at local level and in areas affected by the image of decision-making centres. Why is this bill reforming yet? Because it digitizes the procedures. I don't have to argue about that. We have seen what has happened with the platforms of the Ministry of Finance and above all with the platforms of the Ministry of Digital Policy. That is the direction, and that is where much of the resources from the Reconstruction Fund will go. So it goes without saying that the use of digitisation of procedures is useful. Most importantly, however, in my view, Minister, the role of this bill is a reformist one, because, for the first time, it clearly establishes, if you want, without question, that farms will also be compensated. Until today we had ELGA. But ELGA, for specific reasons and certain enemies, compensated farmers for their production. It does not compensate for plant and animal capital, it does not compensate for installations, machinery, irrigation systems. So this bill is coming to implement what has been done with great success in 'January', which for the first time has compensated the state for the land, irrigation systems, warehouses, agricultural tools, damage to land, damage to the premises. Now this is institutionalised and in fact the rural world can think of having a government next to it that will be difficult for it. For these many other reasons, such as coordination with the Governmental Committee on State Aid, the private insurance incentive and the State Aid Fund are some of the elements that really show that this is a reform. For all these reasons - because I have not really heard any criticism, but only in part from the Parliamentary Representative of Officerial Representation - opposition parties must vote in favour of this bill, to prove that they are prosthetics and not diligent, that they do not come after the disasters to correct what they can correct, without any clear legal framework. It is an opportunity to show that we are thinking about the citizen, especially when it is desperate and when it has been struck by such phenomena that we are discussing. And I say this today, ladies and gentlemen, because our democracy is strong when the state respects the citizen and the citizen respects the state, then our democracy is indeed strong. With today's legislation the Government of New Democracy and Mr.Mitsotakis comes to show that he understands and respects the citizen, especially when he is experiencing great difficulties threatening his home and property. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u191	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u192	Madam President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u193	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u194	Thank you, Madam President. Because I have been away for a while and I have been back before, to replace the Minister, I would like to say the following. As far as I understand it, Mr Alexiadis has again made the proposal of a professional unconscious account. Because I've heard him so far infinitely since the day we took over the government to put this proposal again and again in every bill from the Ministry of Finance, I want to put a order on it. Because, Mr President, you have been Deputy Minister of Finance and because the other colleague, the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Papanatsiou, is here, and because he was then your personal position and the government of SYRIZA, I want to put things in a class. Alexiadis Tryphos, Deputy Minister of Finance on September 25, 2016 - you were the Deputy Minister of Finance at the time -, interview at the REAL NEWS: "The special unreserved professional account is no way forward," said the Deputy Minister of Finance in his interview at the REAL NEWS. "If everyone does not understand that there must be a special professional account, the plastic money will not succeed and, if the plastic money fails, we will not have an increase in public revenue and civil service." Because you repeat it all the time while you were a member of the government then a half and a half years and then a member of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, you had to do so rather than be the Deputy Minister and member of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group and come and make the suggestions today and move our fingers. What did we do? We - and I shall end in a minute, Madam President - because, when we took over the government, we found hundreds of thousands of frozen accounts, and professionals, who were more than a million, brought the regulation of a hundred twenty-dollars, which, for the first time, had the benefit of releasing the accounts.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u195	Did you bring her?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u196	Your arrangement, Mrs. Papanatsiou, of 100 instalments, did not have the release of bank accounts. For the first time, the release of bank accounts with regulation - such a favourable measure - was with the Government of New Democracy, that of a hundred and twenty instalments. Indeed, because, within the pandemic in October 2020, too many people have lost this regulation from the economic weakness, we have reincorporated it - this one - in regulation. We have brought this favourable measure to all those affected by the pandemic, so that they can reintroduce themselves into the regulation of a hundred and twenty instalments with all its advantages and benefits, such as the release of bank accounts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u197	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u198	Madam President, because my name has been mentioned twice, I would like the floor to reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u199	You have the floor, Mr Alexiadis, but for just a minute, because anyway I will give Mrs Papanatsiou the floor to answer the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u200	He didn't say anything wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u201	All right, Mr. Bukkaro, it can take the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u202	I will reply briefly. Minister, it was not a personal view of Alexiades, it was a view of the government expressed by the country's Prime Minister at the Thessaloniki Exhibition in 2016. Our political responsibility and our mistake and our delay were that we were unable to implement it at 100%. But I want us to get away from this, because if we get into a conversation, what did one and the other do... There is a broad consensus here. The New Democracy Parliamentary Group agrees. You heard Mr. Bukkoro, who I think expresses everyone. The social and productive actors in your own political area agree. So why not implement the proposal that Mr Bukokouros says? Maybe that's it. But it doesn't make any sense to shake our fingers as to what we did. We say let us implement -60%, 70%, we say 100% - but implement it to what extent you can. But stop criticising because, you know, in this Chamber, the roles between the minister and the opposition are easy to change and it will be difficult at some point to tell you what you were saying the other day. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u203	Madam President, I want the floor for a minute on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u204	Mr. Buquoir, please. You know the rules better. If the Minister wants something, he'll take the floor and...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u205	He referred to his word personally to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u206	He didn't offend you. He referred to a proposal from him. Please, we cannot open this debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u207	Listen to me. Let me explain.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u208	If the Minister wants to, he will take the floor and I believe he will be taken immediately after Mrs Papanatsiou has been placed. You know the Rules of Procedure very well. Mr. Bukkaro, don't embarrass me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u209	I have the right to explain why I am asking for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u210	So tell us why you're asking for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u211	On the one hand, you have given me the floor on staff when I expressed praise for the presence of Mr Alexiadis, on the other hand, when I have asked to be seated because Mr Alexiadis has completely distorted my view. If you want, I can explain more specifically.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u212	I will give you the floor because you said that it distorted your opinion, but for no other reason, because Mr Alexiadis answered the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u213	Listen, Madam President, I explained that in October 2015, immediately after the September elections, I tabled a timely question to Mr Alexiadis on the irresponsible account. I suggested that it reach 80% of the turnover. He replied to the House then, Mr Alexiadis, that it is very right to propose and we will certainly implement it. The government of SYRIZA went to the institutions and asked for an unsuccessful 100% account, which made it a non-functional measure. It was rejected not with praise, but I would say that it was completely rejected. I have a place and a reminder of the facts, and Mr Alexiades, in his personal placement, claims that I said that the undrawn account should now be introduced. I have just said - and I refer to the Minutes - that all these tools and other tools are needed, because we are coming out of a ten-year crisis. Immediately after the speech by the Deputy Minister of Finance, he analysed all the policies that have been drawn up, which are perhaps more useful measures with the release of the accounts, which had reached the many millions in our country, with the renewal of the hundreds of doses and so on, and developed the government's economic policy grid for such cases. And be sure, Mr Alexiadis, by closing that this government has shown that it has reflexes and will take all the measures necessary to support both the country's commercial world and production base. That's what it does every day, and that's what it does with today's legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u214	Thank you, too. Explanations were given. Mrs Papanatsiou, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u215	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, we are discussing another bill at a difficult time for the citizens. The situation on the pandemic front remains out of control and the government is not willing, even now, to hear neither the scientific community nor the proposals of counter-population. We are living the largest lockdown in Europe and, at the same time, the most failed one, and in the last few days, we have seen the Committee's report leak and it is now clear that the Government is taking political decisions on the management of the pandemic and afterward calls for it to be ratified by the committee. The hospitals are bent by the weight of the intubated. The Government is piloting tourism through bans for citizens and in particular without having consulted the Ministry of Health Experts Committee. At the moment we are at the peak of the third wave. Instead of going ahead with serious and orderly epidemiological surveillance, repeat the same recipe and expect different results. As the government moves on the basis of communication management, denying our proposals and scientific studies, the result will be the same. You do not realize, even now, that you are following the wrong recipe. Let's go to the second point, to the economy. We should all know very well that the real problems will come as soon as we get out of the health risk. The government's insistence not to invest in the economy, but to support the aid for the suspension of payments and loans, has led the economy to recession and growth of private debt. There are annual studies by the GFCM, the GFCM. What do the results tell us? 22% of respondents indicate a loss of income of more than 31%. 14% suggests a loss of 21% to 30%. Household income decreased by 27.2%. 24.7% of enterprises do not even have cash. 14% has been available for a month. Mr. Catherine told you before. How is the focus going to be opened, which should be opened, and we all want it? What liquidity is the focus going to open? What are you going to give? What measures will you take in this direction? This is the support you have given to businesses and professionals, government gentlemen. We understand that the situation has deteriorated with the government's handling. We have tabled detailed proposals for you, as we have been doing over the last period. But proposals that are not heard. Proposals concerning the ESS and public health. Proposals concerning the relaunching of the economy and support for citizens. Here our proposals include adjusting the pandemic's debts by cutting the basic debt. They also include the necessary tools to strengthen liquidity, to enable businesses and professionals to step up, such as the grant for a period of insurance contributions by employers and employees and an overall proposal to regulate private debt. We referred before and to the inconsistent business account. Tree Alexiadis said so. Minister, together with the hundred and twenty instalments - which we had brought together the hundred and twenty instalments, you simply filled them later and you must be honest about - we had voted on the progressive inconsistencies. Let us know what's going on. Is the progressive impulse working? Is it implemented by the Government of New Democracy? You cannot believe that you have the only truth. Even for HNVIA, admit it, as Mr. Skeylakis admitted. He stepped on a provision of ours. We had voted, you just filled it up, you did it further. Well done, with you. Go as far as you can. We have no objection to this, but do not take what has been done with the SYRIZA government, zero them and say that the country's history has started since 2015, systematically forgetting your "successes" of the governments that led the country to bankruptcy and bring back the same recipes. It did not start in 2015, gentlemen, it is a given and you must admit it. You constantly contradict, on the one hand, and ask for proposals on the other, when they come, close your ears and shoot the dialogue, always legislating at once and without any consultation. On the other hand, it must be understood that the recovery of the economy cannot exist without the recovery of labour and incomes. Instead, you prepare the final blow, looking into reality in the eyes, as the Prime Minister said. You dare now also question the basic principles of labour law. So you get it from where you left it a few years ago. One of the points in the typical work model that you have been trying to influence and "optimize" has been that of working time management. All you did at that time was unemployment of 30%, flexible forms of work of 30%. You are now coming to complete the complete abolition of the eighth and you are saying that working time will be arranged through individual contracts. Who will have the upper hand, especially in individual contracts? It doesn't take much thought: individual responsibility, individual negotiation, individual contracts and anyone who can bear! The violent restructuring of the economy and the labour market through their fate-related and highly indebted small and medium-sized enterprises will meet the grand plan to create a hundred and eighty thousand jobs through the Recovery Fund, so that employment and unemployment can be found in five years from now when it was in 2019. That's what you told us. Only as a bad joke can sound your supposed plan. Now let's go a little bit to the bill. Climate change is a deepening and evolving phenomenon. It is a turning point, which should make us all review part of the policies that we are proposing. These changes should concern taxation up to environmental protection conditions and to where to turn economic development and the framework for prevention and preparation for these support phenomena. What's this bill doing? It is trying to create a framework of provisions on aid in the event of natural disasters involving businesses and professionals. Well, that's all right. But there are no households at all. What about the households? On the new framework for aid to enterprises, we note that the provision is vacant, without saying absolutely anything, so that we can discuss and co-formulate. We are, of course, learning what it is all about from the statements made by the Minister. But the debate on the legislation takes place in the House, not with the press releases that the Minister and his ministry can bring. You bring a storm of amendments up to the last minute. Justification is all, Minister. You do not give us the opportunity to discuss nor to co-formulate. You are trespassing on every concept of dialogue, not only with the MPs, but also with the social actors. The big amendment, which you have brought at the last moment, should we not discuss it with market operators, see their views, positions, see if they agree? A few comments to the individual in the bill: The way in which the damage record process is described, the sending of files, and all the rest are not far from what is currently in place. I will report to you the experience of my own region, where the Magnesia farmers affected by the 'January' were not compensated for by the 100% that you promised them by the ELGA, despite the relevant announcements and commitments from the political leadership. For damages not covered by the ELGA and the NGO, non-professional farmers have not yet been compensated, while mainstream farmers have only received 20%. If I understood well today by Mr. Stakoura, he said they'd get something too. Can't that be costly? Can't we know what this is? First of all, why are they different by mainstreaming farmers and non-professional farmers? Aren't these people paying ELGAs? Don't they grow? Aren't they selling their products? They don't live from them? A second question: there is no provision for a minimum amount of aid, which, together with the unstable support of the newly created fund, leads to the conclusion that the aid will be inextricably tied to private and public budget donations, so that it cannot be guaranteed that the appropriate amounts will be available if necessary, and that these aid will not be stable. We note that much of the important issues in the bill are referred to in ministerial decisions. We counted twenty outstanding ministerial decisions. It is understood that with so many ministerial decisions the bill is empty. You're just asking us for an in-white authorization. Increasing the budget by 3 billion. We had warned you that the budget was a lame one. We have been as a country in a very difficult position, with the responsibility of your Government. Unfortunately, we have to stress this because, unfortunately, there is no scope for agreement with the government. There's no trust. Our plans are to the contrary. He mentioned your Member - and I am waiting here, Mr Stagioras did not reply, although he was asked by Mr Alexiadis - and he said: 'Finally, the road to private insurance is opening'. Is that your policy? Is that what you want? Why don't you tell us clearly? We are waiting for an answer, Minister, to your position. Also, Minister, is there a plan for compulsory housing insurance? Is that the state aid you're bringing us today? You're bringing in compulsory state housing insurance? Is that state aid? I'm telling you, we really don't trust in your plans. This period raises questions as to how we understand the state, as an intervention of a last resort or a regulator of the market. There are issues about the role of the state in the economy and in key pillars of the social state, such as education, health, labour. These questions define the policy mix. And it's not outdated, as he wanted, and he wants, the dominant concept of believing. He was simply hiding under the surface of precarious growth. Government policies exacerbate conflicts and increase inequality. Not everyone fits in this plan. We will therefore defend all those who do not fit into your own plans. We'll defend those who don't fit in your own plans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u216	Thank you, my colleague. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Brutsi, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u217	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative at Step. Bearing in mind the public debate that is taking place in the House and listening to what is being put through the Parliamentary Representative says by the Qualified Opposition, it may be inconsistent to conclude from now on that: the Civic Opposition, that is, SYRIZA, has the embarrassment and the element of the difficult position. It is awkward and difficult position, because you are following a very important bill, which should embrace all sides of this House and vote, and the Civic Opposition is limited to a denounced, destructive position on every occasion and is not placed on this bill. So, looking at this picture, I, too, must say to Mrs Papanatsiou, that in matters relating to the pandemic, the functioning of the government, the way she has worked and decided all this time, of course, one can criticise, because we have said many times that we do not claim the perfect in an unpapered environment, which has no precedent, not for Greece, but for the whole world. At least, however, in the way in which we have operated this more than one year, we have proved in practice the social sensitivity and the reflexes and interest we have shown for workers and businesses and how we accelerated the process of dealing with the pandemic at medical level and with the ICUs that we have created and with the speed of vaccination. All of this is undeniable, which the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy does not say. They say it throughout Europe, in favour of the way in which the government, here, has reacted to our country all this time. They call it international houses, the other European countries say so. Our country is going to fight a great battle over the last few years so that we can win the tourism bet this year. Because I have listened, in a way which I do not share, to be said publicly through this Step, and to the previous time-consuming question of the Change Movement but also today, that things are not going well in Greece. Those who are unaware that the debates here are public and what we are saying here are heard everywhere. So we need to send a message that Greece has done, does and will do what it can to be a safe country to open up tourism this year. We are very well aware that the Gross National Product of our country, due to this blessed specificity that we have with the islands and the beautiful country, depends very much on tourism. And this bet has to be won this year. The country's state budget and economic operators are talking about 50% of the 2019 performance. And we hope that this year's revenue will be weighed on the state budget, because we need it. Greece needs them. The country needs them. They need our islands. They're needed by the workers. In the area of workers, for whom I hear a very hypocritical, in my opinion, of interest, on the part of SYRIZA, I have this to say. SYRIZA's gentlemen, when I brought to this Chamber as Minister of Labour in the previous period the reduction of insurance contributions, which two million workers would see an increase in their wages, remember what you did? You voted against it. Is that what you're interested in? Is that the interest in workers? Or are you ignoring the facts, that we are the only country in Europe, together with Italy, that, through the measures we have taken through the suspensions, thanks to what is called the 'innovative tool' 'ERGANI' to the Ministry of Labour, without bureaucratic procedures and the protection of the jobs that the State budget has held, we have managed to reduce unemployment in 2020, through pandemic? Are you questioning it? Or do you think there was a way through miracles to defeat the pandemic? So let's get serious. Let us deal with things the way they are. I understand your inability to express political discourse and what you say here, through the billions that you share through means of promises, are things that come unnoticed, without being tortured to say how much this costs, while at the same time you see that the government comes in libertarianly and responsibly through the Ministry of Finance any intervention to cost it and say exactly where the money is going and how they will catch a place. I now come to the question of the bill. What is the bill doing today? It is trying, ladies and gentlemen, something very important. With Article 36 of Law 2459/1997, that is to say, twenty-four years ago, the Greek State tried, with this intervention, to create a protection net so that in the exceptional conditions of natural science - fires, floods, earthquakes - with the greatest possible speed and coordination of its institutions, it could come to deal with the natural disasters, ease the suffering of its inhabitants, households, business. That's the reality. And now a question arises to the side of SYRIZA and KINAL, where Mr Kamines is present and listens carefully to the debate and patiently: does the framework need to be revised? Yes or no? Are you happy with the existing framework for dealing with the naturality and extraordinary catastrophic events? Yes or no? Personally, having spent several years both as a Member and as a minister, I find what you are seeing: yes, the state over time - I am overcoming governments - shows an interest and every one of the governments is trying quickly and reflexing, well-meetedly, to tackle the extraordinary event, unfortunately, but the framework is not that more rapidly, with the coordination of the institutions, the ministries, to come much faster to meet these needs of the citizens of the regions that have suffered damage. That's the reality. So on the presumption that today's bill is a very important institutional step in what each state is obliged to do, to protect its citizens with social reflexes and efficiency, households and businesses, when they suffer exceptional damage due to natural disasters. So, having this element, I wonder why you're negative in such a bill. I should also pay tribute to the Secretary-General, Christos Triantopoulos, who personally dealt with this bill, because under this General Secretariat this new body of the National Committee for State Aid, and Apostolus Vesiropoulos and Christos Staikoras, too, will enter this new body of the Ministry of Finance, even in this difficult environment. You saw that both the recent Samos earthquake and the "IANOS" that hit our country at what speed they were treated, but we cannot say that we are satisfied with the extent we wanted. So the Ministry of Finance comes in and brings a bill through which it completely restructures the mechanism. Consider why the citizens are listening to the fact that the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Home Affairs, the Ministry of Rural Development, the Ministry of Transport, all these ministries individually come and react and add their assistance to the affected area. This results in the absence of coordination, lack of speed, reaction, and lack of effectiveness. And we come today with this bill - creating the National Committee on State Aid, the Regional Coordinator of State Aid, the remaining units in the General Secretariat of Economic Policy of the Ministry of Finance, the Department of State Aid, and all other institutions created at regional and municipal level - to deal with a problem of chronic absence or reduced, to be more accurate, efficiency and coordination of the Greek state. So such a draft law, which comes to modernise an institutional framework twenty-three-four years ago, should have welcomed it, with whatever shortcomings it may have, rather than ever criticising and canceling it in practice. I would also like to ask myself whether the institutional framework needs or does not need to be modernised, I believe you are answering 'yes'. Why didn't you bring it four and a half years ago? Four and a half years when you saw his absence, why didn't you bring it? And today, in a difficult environment, of pandemic, which we have to deal with a thousand other problems, we are bringing this new institutional framework. I accept that it may have flaws, such as all the new institutional frameworks that we are creating every time to modernise the efficiency of the state. We will build it with shortcomings that we will face and possibly gaps in the future, we will increase it and improve it even more. At least there to come to an agreement, it is a new institutional framework for dealing with the natural disasters, to make the welfare state and state intervention more effective when dealing with such issues. So this is one side of the bill. We lighted her, we cleaned her up. It's a positive bill. He has nothing to hide. Structural change does great, modernises the existing institutional framework for the good of the citizen, for the good of society, because, as you have said, and you have admitted - and here we all agree - the extraordinary weather events impose new conditions, new reflexes from the state - and here we will all agree - and we need such an institutional framework. And here we are adding to it. Of course, if you analyse it and now criticise me why it must refer to ministerial decisions, now it is'strong through the engagement', in the sense that there is no bill that can come to an end from the beginning until the end and every article of it includes everything. Of course, there are references to ministerial decisions, which the Minister should write with his services, so that there is no difficulty, if and if anything needs to be changed, make a separate decision and need not be regulated. The second part of the bill, however, I believe it is equally important. It comes to confirm what I said at the outset, that this government of Mr Mitsotakis, of the New Democracy, from the beginning of the pandemic to the end, has committed itself to one thing: we will be close to the citizens until the last day, on the difficult day that the pandemic will end. We have proved this to date, in 2020, in the first months of 2021, and we are coming today with a supplementary budget to prove in practice, with EUR 3 billion further strengthening these social categories that need because of the prolonged pandemic. The trade tax is excluded for 2019 and 2020 for fishermen, farmers and farmers. We are increasing the special-purpose compensation for April for these special categories affected by the pandemic. The unpaid advance becomes tax-free, unpaid and unpaid. Can you disagree with that? And now, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, with the 3 billion to be added, the amount for 2021 of the State budget, the government, the state of pandemic, is EUR 14 billion. Overall in 2020 and 2021, the level of government interventions with our political decision to support the categories that are affected - businesses and workers - exceeds EUR 38 billion. If you do not appreciate these, if you say that they are not enough, if you say that you have a different proposal, it will be good at some point to formulate it and not to fire fireworks in the air unspeakably, unfoundedly and without costing. Responsibility and, above all, such bills, which do not lead to any element of party difference, differentiation, rivalry, should be voted on as a whole from all sides of this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u218	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. And now we are going to the third cycle of talking to Webex and Mr Karaoglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u219	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I place myself on the Finance Ministry's bill on state aid to businesses and non-profit-making bodies for natural disasters and other issues, I wish to make a brief reference to the sad anniversary of 21 April. Fifty-four years later, ladies and gentlemen, as Greeks, we must proceed with a sense of historical responsibility in a deep-seated national endoscopy. After all, the coup of the colonel junta will continue to be teaching as long as memory illuminates the future pedagogically and as long as we do not allow half the truths to dominate our everyday lives. Turning to the pages of history, the first lesson we deserve to learn is that in today's juncture, the difficult juncture, the Greeks have won a level of democracy that does not tolerate diversions. The second lesson relates to the understanding that the political forces of the country must demonstrate. Especially in times of crisis, such as the one we are experiencing this period because of the pandemic, it is essential to purify our thoughts from micro-party purposes. I am deliberately standing in the latter, because at the meeting of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs I heard SYRIZA's rapporteur, Vassilis Kokalis, but also KINAL's special speaker, Mr Kamine, accepting the philosophy of the draft law and recognising the need to codify the provisions relating to state aid in the event of natural disasters. But both have added a 'but', a 'but' which I believe is, unfortunately, a pretext for the party interest which is in the national interest rather than the national one. But, ladies and gentlemen, 'no-all' does not haunt a political position. It expresses a sterile refusal, which has nothing to do with the principles of thought, restraint, awareness and pragmatism. The bill that we are discussing today is seen as a real reform, which forms a coherent plan, which contains procedures, provides for funding and distinct roles, forms institutions, formulates strategies and gives value to the regulation that we are promoting. It is our convincing response to the phrase which is very often heard by the citizens after theories that there is no state. So the state, ladies and gentlemen, is there, it is here and has the courage to correct past omissions. On the substance, as I explained the day before yesterday in the relevant Committee on Economic Affairs, the draft law fully meets the challenges of the time. It intervenes catalysts in the existing, fragmented and ineffective institutional framework, creating a national mechanism that will more quickly reflect the consequences of a natural disaster and pay the compensation to beneficiaries more quickly. In short, we put an end to the bureaucracy that is particularly afflicting those affected. Through the integrated compensation scheme for companies affected by natural disasters, we restore and strengthen the affected areas, while enabling the tested companies to return as early as possible to normality. We are doing this by shaping a coherent framework, with regard to grants to enterprises affected by natural disasters, by digitising procedures, by coordinating rehabilitation and support measures, so that the state has a full picture of the needs it needs to meet, by creating specialized operational structures, but also by the process of controlling the whole treaty, which ensures the defence of the public interest. Equally important is that the bill makes a special provision for compensation for farms belonging to non-professional farmers, who will be compensated at 50% of the compensation received by the main farmers. To sum up, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, in our time societies and economies are often threatened by sudden and large-scale emergency situations, which creates the obligation for the state to set as a direct objective the reduction of negative consequences. The government, having developed a sense of responsibility and duty, acts quickly in order to create a secure net of protection for those of our compatriots who are faced with natural disasters, always with transparency, accountability and efficiency. I will repeat that the main issue in a theory is the direct activation of the state mechanism within a specific institutional framework of national coordination. Today, then, we are taking a bold step in this direction, creating the right conditions for effective response to future crises. The pain caused by the theories in our homeland in the recent and distant past becomes seed so that the expression that the state is not here again is not heard. Human pain and effort are incalculable and we all have to respect him, let alone when our fellow humans face the unforeseenness of natural destruction and its universal harm. I'm sure we all agree that the theories have no political preferences. There were, there are, and unfortunately they will continue to exist. What is different in terms of governance is how they are managed and treated. We don't waste time. We strengthen the state mechanism, mobilise it, give it greater dynamism and more efficiency, while emphasising the first reaction and insight into the sense of public confidence towards the state. Citizens' and state reconciliation is the greatest gain that we will ensure for the next day, a reconciliation that will cultivate in society the sense of security, consistency and stability that our fellow citizens need. With these thoughts I will conclude by saying that I support the specific bill of the Ministry of Finance, with the certainty that the New Democracy Parliamentary Group will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u220	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Now Mrs Ahtsoglu has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u221	Thank you very much, Madam President. I will say a few words at the outset about the issue of the bill we are discussing today. Obviously, no one can deny the need for a stable and permanent framework for dealing with the damage of a natural disaster by the state. No one can disagree with that and with that logic. The question is whether the government with this bill responds to this necessity. He's trying to convince that he's doing this, but the question is if he really answers that need. And the truth is far enough away from it. In fact, it is once again that the Ministry of Finance legislates a case without content, without substance. That is to say, neither the minimum means are laid down in this bill, so that we can discuss the substance, assess whether it is sufficient or not, judge them. They do not define which costs will be covered. It does not define exactly what will be compensated. Will the immediate operational needs of the enterprises be compensated? Will the living needs of small entrepreneurs be compensated too? The amount of these allowances shall not be laid down in an elementary manner. How, then, can parliamentarians place themselves on something unspecified? I am appalled by what my colleague said before, that there must be respect for the people who are affected. Respect is evidenced through specific things, not by bills made for impressions. It is not even defined here what the State will have from the state budget for this support fund, the Fund. So we can't have a minimum awareness, a size class of what we're talking about. The beneficiaries are not clearly defined. They are completely left out of the houses affected by a natural disaster, by a theory - as if the households had no problem with such a natural disaster - and all are referred to ministerial decisions. In other words, the Treasury is coming again - because it has done so on several occasions in the past - to obtain from the House an unwritten authorization so that it can regulate the problems by means of ministerial decisions. This is not a problem, nor a social activation, nor a framework for dealing with and compensation for natural disasters. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] And it proves another solid feature of this government, that everything is done for the impressions. "Let us give the impression that we are doing something for those affected and let us not have identified the basics either. Just keep the impression.’ And it is characteristic that the Members of Parliament from the region of Thessaly, for example, have had the recent seven months ago, and the naturality is transferring from the region that the citizens there have actually received little from what the government itself promised. So this is the government's permanent conflict. It's the conflict between impressions and reality. And this treaty is manifested in an even clearer way, in an even clearer way, in today's great picture, social and economic. It is the government's view that the government will only be able to do away with the lifting of the lockdown - I am sure, incidentally, completely failed - the economy will return to normal operation and problems will be solved by magic, automatically. Reality disproves these impressions that it attempts to cultivate. Small and medium-sized enterprises are suffocating at the burden of debt, from the lack of liquidity, workers are under a generalised threat of redundancies, under very high pressure, due to a reduction in their income. It is a very difficult recovery to reduce incomes itself. We therefore need a concrete plan to support the real economy for a long time now. Only by lifting the lockdown does the real economy not come back. He needs a concrete support plan. For our part, on the SYRIZA side, we have tabled such a plan, which prejudges as basic care, first of all, for the treatment of pandemic debts, through a basic debt haircut that is commensurate with the reduction of turnover or the reduction of household income, if we are talking about households and not about business. It's not just with doses, how much more when they're too few. Otherwise the debts are pushing, compressing, and under no circumstances can they allow a business or a household to breathe. Secondly, concrete liquidity measures are needed. They open up businesses and do not have the basic capital to buy goods so that they can operate their shops. It takes state aid to be able to buy goods, to be able to cope with the season, that is to say, to cover the post-paid checks that are pressing. It takes a programme to grant them insurance contributions so that they can keep their workers and do not start mass redundancies for a certain period of time, that is, aid. It certainly needs - Mr Katrinis said so too - to delete the trade charge for professionals for the period when their businesses were suspended. The trade fee is a tax on the exercise of a profession. It is unreasonable for the State to require the payment of this tax when it itself has forced businesses and professionals not to operate. It's absurd and unfair. How does the government react to these proposals that are complete and are a programme costly, applied to today, which can help the vast majority of the country's productive powers? It reacts with an arrogance, reacts with some subtle clichés of the "no money", clichés collapsed within twenty-four hours, because they can't withstand the suffering of arguments. And then we heard different lines about the debt issue. One Minister said that "we will cultivate the culture of the poor-payer", as the citizens are strategic bad-payers who were found in the pandemic vortex, the other said that "Europe does not leave us", the third said that "they are not the debts of the pandemic 17 billion said by SYRIZA, but they are 16.3 billion". These are funny, and they also show absolute weaknesses of arguments, given that the debt problem continues in 2021. Many of the suspended ones will start to "scan" in the next period and even further pressure businesses and citizens. What does all of this superficial approach show, that is, the non-discussion of proposals which are essentially from the Greek economy itself? It actually shows a position of denying reality by the government. It denies, in other words, that there is a problem of overcompensation for companies, that there is a liquidity problem, that there is a problem with jobs and a risk of losing them, that there is a problem of income loss. Refusal of reality. And we think that this refusal is no longer accidental, but it is costing a political project, a choice for small and medium-sized enterprises to be cleared up sooner or later, as the government's plan for the Recovery Fund confirms, to compress the world of work, as this disastrous, if it comes, a bill on labour, to liquidate the properties of small and medium-sized households, as the trap of the new bankruptcy has confirmed. This is the political strategy at which these choices are costed. I think the government does not see the problem and avoids. But the reality is you can't falsify it, and above all you can't always avoid it. In the end, you're going to clash with her with fierceness. This will happen if the government continues to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u222	Thank you for keeping time. Good evening, too. Let us go down to the Dodecanese a little, Mr Emmanuel Konsolas from New Democracy, who has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u223	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, to wish good Easter, good power to all of us, at a time when the debate and vote of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance for state aid to businesses and non-profit-making bodies is very important. I would like to express my satisfaction to the Minister for the opportunity to discuss a very important bill today, at a juncture of course that cannot be overtaken in terms of the historical context of this day. Historical memory requires that we remember today. Fifty-four years ago, unfortunately, democracy was destroyed. This dark period ended with a national tragedy. As the Nobelist poet George Seferis said in his historic message against the junta of the colonists "in the dictatorships and especially in the dictatorial situations, the beginning may seem easy, but the tragedy awaits inevitable at the end" and this is another message, that we must have collective memory, not forget and look at this course nationally, consciously high as far as national ideals are concerned. Since then, our country has been going through the longest period of stability, deepening democratic institutions and respect for individual freedoms and we must always remember that the defence of democracy, our faith in democracy, is a matter for all of us. Today the National Representation is called upon to vote on a bill with important and substantial institutional interventions. The potential of the state mechanism shall be strengthened in order to respond directly to the provision of assistance and assistance to enterprises affected by natural disasters. Those of us who have been affected by natural disasters - recently in the Dodecanese, last month in Patmos, last year in Symi, before yesterday in Rhodes - have experienced them. It needs to be looked at by the state and that is what the bill is doing today. The procedures for the implementation of the aid measures and for the recovery of the affected shall, in essence, be automated. It puts an end to bureaucracy and overlap of competences, in order to reduce the waiting time for the aid that our fellow citizens need, since it is many times over for years, many years, to get what they self-evidently expect. It is very important, therefore, that the bill provides for the possibility of granting aid in the form of increased special-purpose compensation to undertakings affected by the pandemic. The aid is duty-free, unregulated and inconsistent, it is not bound and is not offset by certified debts. This is very important for this juncture. At this difficult juncture, state aid has been expressed for thirteen months through constant legislative intervention, through measures aimed at supporting the real economy, which must remain alive and be at re-start to continue the country's development effort and, above all, continue to have jobs, income, hope and perspective. It is very easy to criticise and propose things. I have heard many of my dear and dear colleagues from the Opposition. But when we all know in this Chamber the limits of the country's budgetary tolerances, when everyone realizes that public money is not inexhaustible, they must be careful. Mr Vésyropoulos said so with great decency earlier to colleagues who also had governmental responsibility. A year ago some people asked the government to use all cash in allowances and aid. If this had happened, Mr President, the country would have been free of resources for a long time, and it would have been unable to do what it is doing today, to take measures to support businesses, workers, professionals, to prolong the grant of allowances. The bill contains amendments from the Ministry of Finance, which continue the government's political choice to support at this difficult juncture those who have suffered the consequences of the pandemic. I am pleased that the arrangements for unrealistic rents, which facilitate property owners, were one of the proposals that I had tabled - and in writing my question - to the leadership of the Ministry of Finance. As is, for example, the suspension of taxation, based on the evidence of living for those affected and having lost income from the pandemic. It is a first step to see with perfectly rational criteria the issue of living evidence, to stop a series of distortions, such as the one linking the evidence to car cubism. We know that large-scale cars held by our fellow citizens are no longer of the same value, since they cannot be sold. Moreover, this is apparent from how many cars are not in circulation because the signs have been deposited. This may also mean that a car of this kind may currently have a purchasing value of EUR 3,000, but it is not linked to a presumption of even EUR 10,000. From that point on, the suspension for 2021 of the rules of the Financial Stability Pact enables us to remove tax burdens on the attempt to reintroduce economic activity, and I therefore believe that the Government should consider some additional parameters that will lighten our fellow citizens at this juncture. I am sure Mr Besyropoulos has both ears and the intelligence he needs, because he is disgraceful of the market, to look into this together with the other measures that the government is working on. I believe in this report that the abolition of the tax advance for businesses that are falling above 30% is a possible legislative initiative that the government can take. The second thing that needs to be done is the brave reduction in the trade fee for the free traders. The third is the reduction in insurance contributions, which is a key issue in the effort to relaunch the economy at this time when the tourism economy is starting and needs to start. Finally, the fourth point is the complete abolition of the solidarity levy in conjunction with interventions which create a financial area. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the return to normality, the control of pandemic, the sanitary shield of the country by increasing vaccinations, the opening up of tourism and the gradual resumption of all activities is a matter for all of us. Let us contribute to this effort, in the new context, consensually and creatively. That is why I call on colleagues to vote in favour of the bill and to move forward with the economy, but also for society to stand up until we get to a normal pace. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u224	Thank you, Mr. Consola. I wish you a good Easter! And now we're going to Larissa and Mrs. Evangelia Lykoli from the Change Movement. Here, Mrs Liikali, you have the floor for seven whole minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u225	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have a bill which I dare say that I am in a constituency that is absolutely of concern to us, directly, to us. Unfortunately, the Larisa County has been affected, and I think it is irreparable, at least over a decade. Experts say that the Law of Larissa will have a very serious issue in both agricultural production and the economy, as we were hit by famines, earthquakes and strains this year and, unfortunately, so far, we do not enjoy a special care and a special reconstruction plan for the whole prefecture and our region, as well as in general the region of Thessaly, as we are inextricably linked to the other counties that have suffered significant damage, such as the Cardits County of Jano and the Trikala of the earthquakes. However, in order to take things in turn and in titles for at least as long as we can and highlight the most important issues from our side, this is a bill, ladies and gentlemen, a dear legislative practice, 'we have found a priest to bury five, six', for a bill - a vehicle in which other provisions and amendments have been embodied in vaguely with the main body of the legislation. I will never get tired of saying, first as a lawman and then as a parliamentarian, that we cannot, on the finger, show 'bad' legislation for everyone or for Europe many times and complain about different decisions when our own Parliament, our own legislation comes in such a way. Despite the fact that an integrated framework for the treatment of theories is a positive framework, which must find us all in agreement and must find us in the order of confrontation with all the real problems, overcoming failures which, even in this bill, exist, in any case, we can only build up all these regulations that are unnecessarily liberated. That's something I'll still call. In attending large parts of Parliament's meeting, I found that many colleagues today raised the question of the definition of the term 'theory', as the rapporteur of the Change Movement put it, Mr Kamine. And it was right to do, in my view, because we have a recent piece of legislation, a recent government intervention, in 2020, where the Minister then speaks of theory, giving a completely different dimension to today's, especially for us, and the delicate legal issues that often arise. That'll give us a problem. The legislator will have to come back and this House will have to deal with it again. In addition to the legislative 'achharma', a bill - broom, with all the amendments it brings, etc., we are called upon to put in place and vote for arrangements that are often nothing other than exercises of good intentions, arrangements that have not been properly processed, but also certain regulations that are absolutely correct in their essence, such as the regulations of Chapter II, to exclude farmers and fishermen from the trade end for the years 2019 and 2020 or the reduced VAT on materials necessary for dialysis, issues that the Change Movement has raised with repeated questions and various parliamentary initiatives. One of these initiatives was a recent question, on March 11, 2021, which was tabled on my own initiative during Larissa's repeated catastrophic earthquakes. On this occasion, ladies and gentlemen, I must inform the House that at the time I tweeted my question as follows: 'The problems left by the major earthquake in Larissa require an integrated package of measures on the part of the state', as if I knew, because I knew, as if I were not going to come, because it was not, as I said, very necessary, because it is, and I thought no one would predict it, because it did not. And we have said: in the first two weeks at least we have had too many announcements, which I imagine you have all been watching. However, in second time, when the cameras left, when communication changed hands and when matters went in another order, then things were done differently. They have forgotten very large pieces of announcements but also basic obligations of the government, the state, against earthquake patients. Look at you, ladies and gentlemen, after the terrible earthquakes - the duration of which was unprecedented, as all the Greeks saw - the frosts followed, who actually "flyed" the prefecture and put the rural world with the back of the wall and eyes to God. So what we were expecting from the government is an integrated comprehensive bill of specialised relief measures for the earthquakes of Larissa, which the very same people are at the same time 'frozen', are people who have lost their production theories. It's what we asked for. It's what didn't come! We have waited for natural disasters to be dealt with by exceptional procedure in cases where the disasters are really total. And the 'total' in simple words, ladies and gentlemen, means that at the moment in the Larisa Prefecture we are not just a thesaurus, but we really have people who are on the limit of survival. The cry of agony that emerged today from the rallies of the farm and fodder clubs of Tyrnavos, the area of the Larissa Prefecture, is nothing but a sign of writing. It is not a central fact, it is something that is happening along with everything else. The inhabitants of Damasios, as you know, are winegrowers, with the separate wines of Tyrnavos, which I imagine you all know or have tried. So these producers who are currently in tents and containers have lost their entire production since the last frost. So, in this area, should there not be a specialist, a specialized, integrated project, as in any other area with such kinds of damage, and the prefecture profile is completely destroyed at all levels? I would like to point out here that while we really have catastrophes that can be tackled and disasters that are planned, there is no problem, which should have to be addressed with the methodology for the state mechanism to find out what damage is really complete and not a system of multidimensional competences of leaders, responsible and irresponsible, administration without self-government. Here we have seen something fragile that I would like to say as also responsible for the area of self-government and internal affairs and with twenty-five years of journey to the area of self-government. How a pity, when we legislate, to look at legislative acts to remove from self-government and local and regional councils powers, and the first one called again to come - and came - on the lands of seismic officers was self-government! Without resources and responsibilities, therefore, self-government at the forefront again, but without putting it within integrated planning, methodology, to tackle total disasters.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u226	Slowly finish, Ms. Likoli, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u227	I shall conclude, Mr President. A second point which is very serious is this: in such a serious and necessary draft law the timetable is completely lacking. I can only tell you that at the moment, compensation time for natural disasters can reach and exceed three years. I am not talking about 'January' in Farsala. At least one third has taken only 2,800 euros and, unfortunately, when the cameras left, we were left alone and no one else in front of it. I conclude by saying that the multiplicity of legislation, without having a single framework and without having a national planning plan for needs with the co-responsible ministries, by continuously building administrative bodies with too many responsible bodies and a person of known prestige for president - who God knows who will appoint him again and who he will be - means only that we have staff with executives and executives, but we do not know what they are doing in the end. Gentlemen of the government, after all, for the sacraments as you mean we wish good luck!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u228	Thank you very much. Good Easter, Mrs. Liikali.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u229	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good Easter to everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u230	Be well. Let's go now to Kavala and to Mr. Ioannis Paschalidis from New Democracy. Here, Mr Pascalides, you have seven whole minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u231	Good evening, Mr. President. Thank you. [[At this point the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakoras, presents for the Minutes the above-mentioned legislative improvements, which are as follows:]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[To enter pages 414-415]] Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in recent years we have experienced ever more acute weather patterns as a result of climate change, which has a major impact on society and the economy. Natural disasters have cost more than double over the last decade compared to the previous decade. It is characteristic, moreover, that the relevant statement by the Head of the World Meteorology Organisation, which stressed that, while the coronary has caused a huge health and economic crisis, from which we will be able to face up to its consequences, climate change will continue to pose dangers and threaten human lives, ecosystems, societies and the next few centuries. In Greece, the cost caused by natural disasters reached EUR 307.9 million for the period 1993 to 2018 for causes such as rainfall, forest fires and earthquakes, with Greece classified in the sixth place worldwide in seismic areas, although it holds 0.02% of the surface of the earth. On the basis of all the above data, the current government, committed to its objective of substantial reforms, has decided to develop a comprehensive, simplified, transparent and citizen-friendly framework for grants to enterprises affected by natural disasters, so as to allow normality to be restored as soon as possible to the economic life of the firms affected and the local communities in general. With a view, therefore, to combating the phenomenon of the large number of actors involved, which in any case leads to poor coordination and laudable bureaucracy, with the direct consequence of the suffering of the affected, a coordination mechanism is now being established to ensure that disasters can be better reflected, with a view to the immediate payment of compensation. Thus, this draft law introduces new procedures. A high-level committee is set up, the State Aid Fund is established and - most importantly - the electronic platform of state aid is being established. In particular, in accordance with Article 4, therefore, a subsidy is granted for the damage caused by the Public Investment Programme to undertakings and non-profit-making bodies affected by natural disasters, namely earthquakes, avalanches, floods, tornadoes, hurricanes, volcano eruptions, forest fires and uncontrolled natural fires. Note that the term ‘enterprises’ includes industries and crafts, shops, farms, individual enterprises and free trades, as well as enterprises active in the production, processing or marketing of fishery and aquaculture products. For insurance undertakings, it is foreseen that they may receive a grant in excess of the compensation only for the loss amount not covered by the insurance contract. Article 6 provides for the possibility of granting emergency one-off aid as first aid, which will be tax-free, unequal and indebted to the hands of the public or third parties, while in the eighth article the procedure followed in the case of granting an advance against a grant, when there is significant and extensive damage to the number of firms affected or to the extent of disaster, is to be analysed. The main point of this bill is the provision of an electronic state aid platform in cooperation with the Ministry of Digital Governance. The digitisation shall make the process of financial support quick, effective, with the possibility of checking and crossing data and declarations. The provisions of Articles 11 and 12 are very important since the scope of compensation for damages caused by natural disasters is extended by the inclusion of both the main professions of farmers and of private holdings which are not primarily industrial farmers, as well as Article 25, which provides that farmers are exempted from the obligation to pay the occupational fee for tax years 2019-2020 for which they have elapsed for the first five years from the date on which they are kept in the normal VAT system and from which the fishermen of coastal fishing are established, whether individually or in the form of a co-ownership or civil society, from fishing vessels up to 12 metres between candles. This is another decision that proves the practical support of the Government of Mr Mitsotakis to the people of the primary sector affected by the pandemic. On this point - and I close, Mr President - I would like to warmly thank both the Minister of Finance, Mr Stavoura, for the essential support measures he has taken for the rural world, as well as the Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr Lebanese Cave and the President of ELGA, Mr Andreas Lykourenzo, for the interest they always show, as well as for their very reflexively in the specific difficult situations experienced by our farmers because of the intense weather phenomena, as happened some time ago, when a strong stained ice and hailed areas of our country, including the Regional Unit of Kavala, hit some of them, causing significant damage to grape crops, rays, plums, apricots, fruit and other productions, bringing farmers to the limits of desperation. Bills like today, I am sure that they will work beneficially and reassuringly for the affected, and that is why it deserves the support of all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u232	Thank you very much, Mr. Easter. Good Easter. Mr George Karasmanis from Pella has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u233	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, for the bill being discussed I have participated, I have studied it, I have tabled proposals, I have spoken to the three committees in the process and I believe that it is in the right direction, aiming at supporting all those who suffer the damage from extreme weather phenomena, the consequence of climate change, which is increasingly affecting our country. It seeks a comprehensive and realistic reform of the existing legal framework, which is proven to be inadequate and bureaucratic, with a large number of laws and regulations, with the lack of coordination of stakeholders, perpetuating bureaucracy, suffering of the affected and delayed payments of compensation. In particular, for farmers, all damages from natural disasters, which are not covered by the ELGA regulation, are also recorded, i.e. it allows for damages to be compensated from the effects of climate change, which at one time destroy crops and incomes. Our rapporteur has been mentioned in detail and in detail. That is why I will concentrate on the multiple glaciers and especially on the glacier of the first ten days of April, which was the worst and most destructive of the 20th century, but also on the severe quartzing yesterday and the other day, which have brought our producers into dramatic condition and despair. They expect how and how in a semester to start harvesting in early varieties and in horticultural, green. They saw their production disappear, the expectations of a breath with the advances they would get from merchants to survive and meet pressing needs. It is true that the Minister for Rural Development has said from the start that there will be a protection net for all producers, that registration will be done in a specific, meticulous and accurate manner, and that all damages will be compensated fairly and quickly. On the same line is the President of the ELGA, who has already given the guidelines. I was very pleased to hear the Prime Minister in the parliamentary group last Wednesday saying that he is aware of the size and extent of the disaster and that he expects the overall assessment of the damage to be completed, so that measures can then be taken to support the affected. After all, Kyriakos Mitsotakis is the first post-2010 Prime Minister, who, on his mandate in the summer of 2020, was given the state budget of 34 million ELGA to pay the losses one-off, at 100%, when the previous period was paid in instalments. A allocation of more than 32 million has also been entered in the 2021 budget for the reinforcement of the ELGA and an additional 67 million - always from the state budget - to compensate for disasters by the 'January'. All this is a tangible proof of support for the rural world. Of course, the total damage from the frost of April 1st 10th will go far beyond ELGA's income from farmers' insurance contributions. In order to respond, additional resources should be sought, using 20% provided by Law 4877/2010 to strengthen the ELGA for years past, so that we can be fair with the European Commission. Of course, because I have never been a populist, I must also highlight the country's undeniable budgetary problem and economic narrowness, as a result of the consequences of the pandemic. That is why, as I have repeatedly stressed, it is absolutely essential that we claim resources from the European Union. Indeed, I have proposed that the Minister for Rural Development come in contact with his counterparts, with Member States which have encountered similar disasters and bring this major issue to the Council of Ministers on 26 April and to claim funds. I have heard today from the Step of the House to refer to this. He's already done it. I believe that with perseverance and effort, and with the help of the Members of Parliament, there will be a positive result. We also need to draw funds that have not been absorbed by the Agricultural Development Programme 2014-2020. In this extremely difficult situation that farmers are especially experiencing, it is necessary to give the producers affected advances so that they can first live and continue their work in every way. They must preserve their trees, which need extra cultivation care. It is also necessary to offset their insurance contributions by the compensation they expect. I have already sent two amendments to the leadership of the Ministry of Finance, both for advances and for netting, which I have also notified to the Ministry of Rural Development. There should also be facilities for suspending tax, insurance, banking and other obligations. At the same time, however, it is also necessary to deal effectively with the side effects of disasters, which are as large as seasonal and permanent workers, to support enterprises, in calculators, packages, printing, canning, export, transport, etc. There are proposals tabled by their collective bodies. Besides, there are programmes within the OAED, just as we did in 2006 to support producer groups and cooperatives. And of course something similar can and must be done now. What is important in these times - and I have stressed this many times - is that all the outstandings in relation to compensation that the affected producers expect from previous losses, such as objections from producers with a loss assessment of 2019 and 2020 from hail and frost or with the exception of compensation from producers, which, in the chaos and confusion of quarantine and restrictive measures, either did not make provisional declarations or did not submit definitive or other varieties in general chaos to the definitive ones. It's a great injustice and I won't get tired of insisting that it should be restored. It is also provided for in the ELGA Regulation. It is also compensation for the consequences of the pandemic expected by some producers, such as the grapes of Pella, the lotus producers, who have been unreliable, and other crops that I have mentioned in my other speeches, but I do not now have time to expand. All these loose ends must be closed. They need these compensations from the perpetrators in these difficult days that pass. Furthermore, in addition to the strongness of ELGA, for which I have repeatedly spoken with specific possible proposals, we must, through the Recovery Fund and the new Rural Development Programme 2021-2027, make use of modern technology, all innovations, knowledge and practices, immediately launch a wide-ranging dialogue on the systematic recording and evaluation of the impact on Greek agriculture by climate change, so that a national strategy for addressing and adapting to new data is developed immediately. Good and holy and the compensation of ELGA is imposed, but we can no longer see crops being destroyed every year, vegetable capital being lost, products for domestic consumption and exports that do not exist and ultimately one of the pillars of our national economy, our society falling apart. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u234	Thank you, Mr Karasmani. Be well, good Easter. And go to Evia to Evangelos Apostleu from SYRIZA. Mr. Apostle, seven whole minutes are at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u235	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, climate change can also be blamed for the appearance of extreme weather events. But all the naturalities lead to great disasters, because there is one basic cause: the absence of prevention and infrastructure projects. We in Evia mourned two tragedies last year, eight dead in the first and four dead in the second. The disasters we have suffered have left no activity unstable: from houses, businesses, crops, livestock, to roads and infrastructure in general. All the measures taken not only were insufficient, but they also put the affected people in a complex process, which made it very difficult to absorb the few funds allocated for this purpose. There, however, where things have literally reduced, both in the two disasters, it was the inability of the government to respond in particular, not only to the level of compensation for rural areas but also to the time to be paid. With this bill, the government is trying to steal the impressions, claiming that it provides state aid to farmers affected by natural disasters. However, the description of the definitions and the definition of the procedures for granting grants gives rise to its real intentions or, worse still, to the lack of contact with the needs of the rural area. First, according to the definition of the naturalities, the beneficiaries and the damage covered, the producers affected receiving the subsidy are few and the bill is, in essence, a fireplace. At the same time, only farms and businesses are defined as beneficiaries, leaving open the question of determining the agricultural holding and the farmer as a natural person. Of course, the government does not avoid, once again, having as a general rule in its initiatives the large number of authorizing provisions for the adoption of ministerial decisions. If we add the fact that in any case everything will be determined only by a decision of the Minister of Finance - the conditions for payment of the aid, the amount of the grant, the way of payment - we are not talking about state aid, but about non-transparent legislation. This is indeed a bad and opaque piece of legislation. But allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to focus on a matter that is major for the protection of public property, the implementation of the presumption of public ownership in the forests and forest areas to be recorded in the National Register after the ratification of the forest maps. What is this presumption, ladies and gentlemen? It is the Greek public's right to defend ownership of wild land, that is to say, non-agricultural and non-building land. It is a right stemming from the Istanbul Liberation Treaty in 1832, from the London Protocol of 1830 and the later annexation conditions of the new countries. A year ago, Minister, the Trimel Court of Thessaloniki issued a decision - a station for the defence of public property - on a case that lasted fifty years and concerns the rejection of the claim by Mount Athos and a particular individual of seventeen thousand acres in Halkidiki. The most important thing, however, is that the basis on which the decision on the validity of the presumption of ownership of the State states that the area was a public status of the Ottoman state, which, after the annexation of the new countries, was owned by the Greek State as successor to the Turkish State. Of course, there are other decisions like this. This presumption, Minister, is combatable, which means that all these areas other than those recognised in one of the legal ways, either by means of legislative intervention by the Greek State, from the first by the Royal Decree of 1836 to the most recent Law of Law 3203/2003, or by acknowledging the Ministry of Agriculture, after the opinion of the Forest Ownership Council, to which the interested parties appealed, or by irrevocable judgments of the ordinary courts. So there are too many cases that have been recognized as property. I would add, of course, that the use of these lands does not exist unless it is proved to be in the hands of Greek-Roman law, i.e. for thirty-five years before 1915. This presumption, ladies and gentlemen, according to reports on the leadership of the Ministry of the Environment, will not be the case. It is characteristic that there is an interview with the State Secretary in charge next to the interview of the Minister responsible: the public must now prove his ownership of the area in question. Listen to it, Minister. The question has, of course, started from a long time ago, when former Prime Minister Constantine Mitsotakis in a debate on the revision of Article 24 said: "There is further irrationality, the famous criterion - presumption of ownership." But he did not dare to abolish it. His son is doing so today and after two hundred years of his adoption. Minister, it will be the greatest reward of public property violations. Do not connect your name, Mr. Stakoura, to such a decision. Be careful, this is a very serious matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u236	Thank you, Mr Apostlelos, and we pass from Evia to Trikala, to Athanasios Papadopoulos from SYRIZA. Mr. Papadopoulos, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u237	Thank you, Mr President. The intention of an effective and timely implementation of state aid actions to cover exceptional needs and damages by theories is correct, although it is not about total protection and assistance and households and natural persons. But the intentions are judged by their results. The Municipality of Farcadonas had sent an emergency grant request of 850,000 euros for damages from the floods of 'Janu'. Only 150,000 euros were given. Following the extensive catastrophes in Zarko, Grizano, in the villages of the municipality, including the Pelinai Municipality, from the strong seismic vibrations in March, sent a new demand for EUR 650,000 for damage to school buildings and EUR 3 million for overall restoration of damage to public infrastructure, rural roads, bridges and, of course, aid to the affected. Only 300,000 euros were given. The Municipality of Meteoron, for the disasters of the ice and earthquakes in Longas and the other villages in the Municipal Units of Tymphonies, Hassia, Vassiliki, Kalambakas, calls for a grant of 150,000 euros for those affected by ice and 300,000 euros for rehabilitations from the earthquakes. He's waiting for an answer. Mr Stagiras said the day before yesterday in the Committee on Economic Affairs that he was in good cooperation with the municipalities. How can this good cooperation be demonstrated in the case we describe and for which it must at least give substantial answers? Article 30 increases the budget by 3 billion to implement measures to address the negative consequences of the pandemic. Not even enough for your own government's calculations of what is required. On the side of SYRIZA for the relaunching of the economy, an overall proposal was made, costing about EUR 5.7 billion. The question is that to strengthen the National Health System, has the government not seen that additional grants are needed, as we see all these tragic pandemic dimensions, while we know that, in order to have additional beds in intensive care units, it should be possible to have the doctors we need, not to need a spasm movement, with two hundred private doctors who are being recruited, when needs - the government and the Ministry of Health - are multiple? In order to be able to have coverage in CIVID clinics or emergency departments, he is making extractive movements from other hospitals, which have made single thematics. The bold increase in the health budget - we calculate it more than EUR 2 billion - must be seen by Mr Stakoras, because it is clear that these issues, in order to meet established needs, must have the corresponding possibility. So this money needs to be given so that we can have sufficient ITH and MAF beds. With a calculation that we have made, according to global data, we should have a target of more than two thousand intensive treatment units. With regard to the recruitment of the pandemic's dimensions, I would like to say that we have proposed five thousand five hundred recruits to cover identified gaps, two thousand five hundred per year, permanentisation of all the emergency and subsidiary fighters of the National Health System, integration into heavy and unhealthy and increase pay. Because I was listening to the Prime Minister a moment ago to send a message, while he continues to praise the fighters of the ESS, it does not include anything in the possibilities available, so that we can have an incentive to show the confidence gained in the public health system, but also to have a cover for barren specialties, cover for barren areas, but even cover for small islands and all diffuse destinations in the country of tourist destinations. We all know how important the safety of tourism is, so that we can really use it. All these issues must therefore be seen in the light of the fact that the budget proves to be specific. In order to be able to have an integrated tracking system for all the other tasks that are in front of the primary health system, we also need to have family doctors, nurses, health visitors, social workers and occupational doctors, so that they can actually carry out checks at the workplace, but also to see how much better other countries have done. For example, as compared to our country, Cuba has four hundred eighty-seven and Finland has eight hundred ninety-one. They did all this by exploiting the primary health system. So the budget should be given the opportunity to make contributions to all of this, and even to strengthen the EMCDDA, and to be able to do aerospace and floating crossroads, to return new immigrants, to become all modern and innovative treatments with monoclonal antibodies, cellular, gene, medical precision, to become public centres for the restoration of CECH, mental health, new anti-cancer centres and traumatic centres. Finally, strengthening the ESS, Mr. Financial Staff of the Government, is also much more beneficial from an economic point of view if you see what we are spending on quarantine. Since all future measures are taken under the burden of the National Health System, we understand how much more useful it would be to have shielded the National Health System. I close with a very important issue, which is also a question of trust in our political system. I have also heard the Prime Minister address with his proclamation of what we need to do and because it is a day when we need to strengthen our democracy, we must at least conquer confidence in a single measure of opening up tourism, moving within us, opening up the focus with the health protocol. I would like to say very characteristic, what has been done for entry into the country from the European Union, Britain, the United States, Israel, Serbia - that is, molecular testing, proof of two-dose vaccination or positive antibodies - also apply to the opening up of the focus and for internal movements. Because it cannot be said by the State Secretary that we can risk when these are done with all protection measures, with molecular tests, while schools have only opened up with self-tests.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u238	Finish, Mr. Papadopoulos, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u239	We must bear in mind that these must be the rules with which we gain confidence. This is a message which we must finally give the lessons learned from this tragic adventure to become a proven act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u240	Thank you, Mr Papadopoulos, and, if I don't see you, I wish you a good Easter. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u241	Mr President, I would like to put forward some legislative improvements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u242	Mr. Apostolos Vésiropoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u243	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as I have said in the debate on the bill in committee, this bill aims to adopt automated and flexible procedures for dealing with emergency phenomena and situations. The aim is to adapt and operate the State with immediate support measures to those affected. Two amendments have been tabled by the Ministry of Finance, to which I should like to refer. I have said many times that dealing with the consequences of the pandemic is not a linear dimension. The data shall be updated and analysed. Any intervention shall be subject to ongoing evaluation. The whole of temporary measures to support and facilitate citizens are taken in time, based on realistic data, which is reflected in the amendments tabled by the Ministry of Finance, to which I shall refer. They include arrangements aimed at tax relief, facilitating and supporting citizens and businesses, as well as resolving existing problems. In detail, in the first amendment, with a general number of 855 and a specific number of 141, arrangements such as: First, the full exemption from the obligation to pay a rent for enterprises that have been closed with a state mandate for April as well. Property owners are expected to pay directly to their bank account of 80% of the monthly rent for natural persons and 60% for legal persons. At the same time, the compulsory rental discount of 40% for companies belonging to the remaining CARs continues in April. Moreover, for workers whose employment contract is suspended throughout the territory, the possibility of a rental of 40% for the principal residence and residence of those dependent members is allowed. Secondly, the possibility of lifting the immobilisation of passenger cars and motorcycles is provided, on a pro rata basis, by the transfer fee as from 4 May. Citizens will be able to activate the lifting of their vehicle electronically for as long as they wish, proportionately pay charges. In addition, contrary to the provisions of the previous government, no surcharge shall be imposed on the amount of traffic charges paid in proportion to the month. Thirdly, through the Single Digital Portal of Public Administration, rather than by a person present in the DUs, the possibility of issuing a temporary ‘M’ licence in the event of a change in the area of voluntary immobilisation of vehicles. Fourthly, the problem created by the historical registration fee of certain used vehicles for which the relevant applications had been submitted in time, but the corresponding registration fee has not been established at the customs offices up to the deadline of 18 July 2020, due to the delay in issuing the taxable value reports required by the competent authorities. A recalculation of the grading fee and the possibility of returning or offsetting the resulting difference shall be envisaged where an increased fee has been imposed. Fifthly, a solution is given to the property regime of buildings belonging to the former counties, and now they are housing regional services, but their ownership belongs to the Ministry of Finance. The regulation contained in the amendment deals with the legal vacuum that existed and is granted free of charge to the regions, at the request of the regions and with the obligation to maintain the housing of the already existing public services and services of the ADP. It is an important development, since regions can now integrate these buildings into energy upgrading programmes. Sixth, the possibility of partial payment of debts of tax warehouse alcoholics, collected by customs and made late payment up to 31 March 2021. This is a regulation which practically supports the companies affected by the pandemic that have tax warehouses of alcoholics, which would otherwise be faced with a serious risk of sustainability in the current difficult situation. Seventh, enforced and rationalised measure is also the arrangement whereby seizures, auctions and enforcement measures are suspended for six months for natural and legal persons who have proved to be affected by natural disasters. Eighthly, in order to strengthen the projects linked to renewable energy, we are dealing with the problem that has been created with the long time needed for the new issue of a temporary landing permit from public services. The possibility is now given for the simple use of the sea, sea and sea for consideration by the competent property department, with the agreement of the port authority concerned. Ninth, the composition of the secondary committee of engraving the boundaries of the agialos, the beach and the old agialos is reformed, with the aim of ensuring a safe, correct and flexible process of shaping the lines of agialos, beach and old agialos. Ladies and gentlemen, in the second amendment with a general number 863 and a special number 147, substantial support measures, tax relief and facilitation of citizens and businesses are included, such as: First, the possibility of a short-term submission of the personal and legal income tax declarations until 27 August 2021. At the same time, the tax on these declarations is fixed at eight equal monthly instalments, with the obligation to pay the first two instalments until the last working day of August 2021. Where the personal income tax declaration is submitted by 28 July 2021 and the resulting tax is paid only until the last working day of July 2021, the total amount of the tax shall be provided for 3%. Secondly, we are resolving the problem faced by property owners in order not to tax them for rents that they did not collect. With what has happened so far, property owners would have to file a complaint, which, in addition to the relevant costs, is linked to the objective difficulties in the movement and functioning of the courts due to the pandemic. The regulation contained in the amendment exempts income tax from renting immovable property which has not been collected by the beneficiary, i.e. owners of immovable property, subject only to the notification of outsiders to the lessee on account of non-payment of rent, without any other legal action, such as the expulsion or hire of rent. Third, the option to submit separate statements of spouses is extended until 6 May 2021. Fourthly, by 31 May 2021 the deadline for the submission of applications to the auditing method for income taxation arising from foreign natural persons carrying their tax residence to Greece shall be extended. In the same direction, the regulation extends until 30 September 2021 the deadline for the submission of applications for an income tax on employed persons and business activity arising from their domestic natural persons carrying their tax residence to Greece. Fifthly, the issue of taxation is treated fairly, rationally and effectively, on the basis of the objective living criteria for those affected by the pandemic. It is foreseen that those involved in the affected will not be taxed on the basis of objective living costs, provided that both of the previous years have not been taxed on objective living costs. Sixthly, in a realistic and fair way, we are also faced with the issue of not achieving the required target of 30% of the costs to be incurred by electronic means of payment for two categories, for those affected by the pandemic, namely those affected by the pandemic, workers on a job suspension and for owners of property who received reduced rents and made a statement of COVID, but also for citizens over sixty years. It shall be reduced to half for persons not covered by the above-mentioned case the tax increase resulting from an amount declared by electronic transactions exceeding 20% and less than 30% of their actual income. Seventh, another substantial measure to relieve and support the theories affected, for which the relevant decisions of the Minister of Finance have already been adopted from 1 January 2020 until the publication of the law, is to extend until 31 December 2021 the payment of their certified debts to the DUs and audit centres. The regulation is necessary because of the extremely difficult economic position of the natural and legal persons mentioned above. The eighth shall also be extended until 30 June 2021 the deadline for applying for the lifting of liability and measures to the detriment of the jointly responsible legal persons and legal entities for tax debts. This extension is necessary after it has been made difficult to submit the above requests in a timely manner, having to obtain data from the agencies and courts, while new conditions for liability have been established in previous laws relating to the existence or non-reliance, which has created new data. Ninth, there are issues which have arisen from the practical application of the new institution of the Committee on External Tax Dispute Settlement. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I'm gonna need two more minutes, Mr. President. They concern, in particular, matters relating to the certification, collection and regulation of the amounts resulting from the out-of-court settlement of tax disputes and are to be facilitated by both the Committee and the tax administration. The aim is to speed up the work of the Committee through the resolution of practical issues and the proper functioning of its standard electronic system. Tenth, especially for the hunting year 2021-2022, hunters are exempted from the obligation to pay paper fee, provided that the same type of licence was issued last year, since for a long period the hunt had been banned. Ladies and gentlemen, as you can see, the government will continue to take legislative initiatives, with the aim of supporting those affected by the consequences of the pandemic. Some have invested in destruction, but they have been denied. They continue to invest in the fatigue of citizens from the necessary protection measures aimed at controlling the pandemic. They will be disguised as long as our country and society take small and large steps towards freedom, by increasing vaccination, by gradually opening up activities and removing restrictive measures. However, there is also a constant disapproval for all those who derive from the confidence with which the government and Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis surrounds the majority of Greek citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u244	Thank you, too, Mr. Undersecretary. The Minister has asked for the floor. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u245	Thank you, Mr President. Following my position and the State Secretary, there are, as you know, two provisions, one for tenants and one for owners. I told you in my prototype that there would be a significant credit for real estate owners. I would like to inform you, therefore, that 182.5m euros are credited to two hundred sixty-sixty-sixty-one owners of real estate. Overall state support to real estate owners is more than 385 million euros. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u246	Thank you, Minister. We shall then proceed to the speeches of the rapporteurs and of special speakers. Mrs Manolakou from the Communist Party of Greece has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u247	Today's debate has shown that disasters and natural disasters are taking place. However, anguish and especially arrogance dominates, although and when they will be compensated if they can survive. This was even expressed in speeches of Members of the Chamber of Deputies, under pressure from farmers' mobilisations all these days in many areas, since the icebergs have destroyed many crops and the income is doubtful whether there will be one. Your bill as a whole does not give answers to such agony and despair. As far as the amendments are concerned, I would like to say at the outset that thirty-two articles were the bill and twenty-eight articles the ministerial amendments. In the same way, of course, the amendments to the bill. I would like to point out to everyone. In the first, most of the articles refer to extensions, emergency measures or pandemic suspensions. We do not consider them to be particularly important. We are positive with regard to articles concerning compensation for workers on the grounds of the termination of the contract and the suspension of enforcement for natural persons affected by natural disasters. However, we are opposed to the last three articles, to the participation of funds or financial mechanisms in the Imperialist Organisation of the International Monetary Fund and to the granting of haycats to RES operations, so that the installation of wind turbines is more economical. You have all given them land, now and in the sea, for their sure profitability. And you grant not once for the installation, but for as long as their operation lasts. That is, if any damage is done or needs correction or replacement, then again it can be done by the sea. But if the area is part of the beach, then what happens? Then you exclude and grab the use of it from society as a whole for the profits of the group. If it is an intransigent part of a saint outside the beach, then there is a problem of landscape deformation and, of course, it will also be attracted to other business activities. So you're changing use. Indeed, that is precisely why you are also changing the composition of the secondary committee that will define the boundaries of the hayalus, the beaches and the old hayalus, in order to ensure the uninterrupted implementation of the government's options and, of course, much greater control. We in this overall amendment are expressing ourselves with 'the present'. As far as the second one is concerned, on the financial outstandings of the Ministry of Immigration and Asylum, we shall be expressing ourselves with'represents', and on the third amendment, on the transfer of a trade mark for the purpose of conducting races for motorised sport, this article is unacceptable and provocative. And in his speech the Secretary of Sport refused to actually satisfy the needs of workers. You get the brand and you'll give it to some who'll win, earning profits from rallies. However, the seventy employees of ELPA leave them out of debts in salaries, insurance, pensions. What these people will become is none of your business. We are therefore voting against the amendment, although we are not negative in the second article, which refers to the amendment of competition competition notices for the 2020-2021 season. With regard to the last amendment, which the Secretary-General has analysed and through his speech, we say that it is small - reforms, prolongations of debts and more dosings to those affected by the economic capitalist crisis and pandemic. Since you don't have to receive from damaged, bankrupt people, what are you doing? You're giving them extensions. Since in most cases you have booked shops, you have closed branches and would normally have to exempt them from taxes and write off debts or at least actively sing them, what are you doing? You come to give further extensions and claim them, which is unacceptable. But we will also be expressing ourselves in this amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u248	Thank you, Mrs Manolakou. Mr. George Kamine has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u249	Thank you, Mr President. We had tabled an amendment to the government's exchange of property in the Municipality of Kalamaria, in which the Minister and the Undersecretary were not mentioned at all. In various places in the area of the Municipality of Kalamaria of Thessaloniki there are wider areas of exchangeable estates that the State claims. In most cases, the promotion by the public right of ownership has come after an undisturbed predominance and ownership of the property, both by individuals and by the local authority. Retrospective promotion of ownership rights demonstrates the very serious problems associated with the specific application of the law, as they are cases of real estate belonging to the city plan that are designated either as private real estate or as public and public property, in which public or private buildings have already been erected. It is obvious that important events, which have established rights of good-faithed third parties and have in general established situations which cannot be ignored by the official state through the legislator. Our amendment aims to satisfy this need for an immediate response to a problem, a real and legal situation. And we note that a similar arrangement has been introduced very recently with the provisions of Article 26 of Law 4778. They are exchangeable properties, which are within the town of Serres' rice plan. We therefore ask you to accept a similar arrangement we propose for Kalamaria. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u250	Thank you, Mr. Kamine. It's Mr. Red.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u251	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u252	Here you go, Mrs. Papanatsiou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u253	Mr President, I would like to ask you: in Article 3 of the amendment you are talking about an extrajudicial charge. Isn't that right? In other words, at a time of pandemic for affected entrepreneurs or workers, the owner must in any case have an out-of-court complaint in order to be able not to declare the income he will not receive in his tax declaration. It is also a prerequisite in the time of the pandemic. Is that right? I want clarification. And I'd like to ask something else about electronic means of payment. There is a question here when someone has more expenditure than income which is not taxed, which is income from the pandemic. Is there a penalty for this or not? I would like clarification on these two issues of the amendment. And for the evidence, if we understand it correctly, it is true that, if it did not have tax payments in previous years on the basis of the evidence, the exemption now applies again.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u254	Thank you very much, Mrs. Papanaceu. Do you want to answer now, Minister, or in the end?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u255	I shall now reply, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u256	As you love.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u257	If you say about Article 3 of the second amendment tabled a moment ago on unrealistic rents, it is clear. By simply notifying an out-of-court, without requiring what is provided for in the law on actions, as you know very well, the lessor is not taxed on the part of rents that were not collected alone. By means of a simple extrajudicial notification, due to restrictive measures and only to the notification of an extrajudicial act.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u258	For the evidence... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u259	Please don't have a dialogue. She'll answer, Mrs. Papanaceu.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u260	I have not heard the question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u261	Here you go, Ms. Papanaceu, repeat the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u262	Is the evidence conditional on the two previous years not having income from the evidence?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u263	I get it. Okay. For all who have been affected by the pandemic - affected companies, workers who are suspended, and owners who have received reduced rents and made a statement of COVID - they will not be taxed this year in the alternative way of calculating the tax if they do not cover the evidence of living with objective expenditure. However, those who have been taxed in this way, with their living documents, are excluded in the past two years. It's thought they've done it in a system. In other words, they are also taxed in previous years, which was not pandemic, in this way of calculating the tax, not with their actual income, but with the evidence of living. Their actual income could not cover the subordination and are taxed by the difference in this tax. We have done exactly the same with the solidarity levy, precisely the same provision. There was one of the two years since you hadn't been taxed on living documents. Here is still a more favourable measure. It's both the previous tax years that you haven't taxed on living documents.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u264	Thank you very much, Minister. Now it's Mr. Vassilis Ass by SYRIZA. Here, Mr. Red, you have the floor and apologise for the little suffering.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u265	Thank you, Mr President. No problem. Ladies and gentlemen, let me remind you here of the advantage of the monologue. Anyone can say what they want. But when it comes to the suffering of comparison by the one who is watching, then this advantage becomes a disadvantage. With regard to the phrase 'Single Protection Framework' for the affected, we have heard the majority of Members of the House repeat the provisions of the law, what the articles say. We have not heard a substantial argument, unfortunately. We have also heard the Minister, who has left now, saying that he has argued that because two Heads of Parliament's groups did not speak of the bill, so it means that it is right. Is that a serious argument? Is that a serious conclusion? Ladies and gentlemen, we will be expressing ourselves with the 'present' in principle, but by voting in favour of almost most of the articles in the bill. Why? Do you see anywhere, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, the word "households" in this bill? If you see her, tell us. Do you see anywhere the state's commitment, the state's commitment that in the event of damage this percentage will be met, 50%, 70%, 80%, 100%? We say 100%. Do you see the ELGA anywhere? Do you see anywhere in this bill the decline in soil fertility? Unfortunately, I have not heard it from anyone today, nor from MPs who come from Evros. For national reasons, the government has to look at the problem of the decline in soil fertility. Because, therefore, we think it is a foolishness that the state does not take on the self-evident obligation to tell the citizen that, in the event of damage, I cover you 100% or 80%, because we regard this bill as a mockery, which is entitled to the explanatory memorandum 'Single Protection Framework', I will say that the basic word 'households' is missing, unless the missing ones are in the bill. Because, we said, the monologue has an advantage. Anyone can say what they want. Jesus, though! You cannot say that today a single institutional framework for protecting the affected will be passed. You better say 'for business', which again is a repetition of earlier provisions. He's not offering anything at all. And he doesn't offer why? Because the state does not today commit itself to its self-evident obligation, and we regard this as foolishness. But there is a need for an institutional framework, yes, there is and you know very well that we have tabled proposals. For we have tabled proposals, many of which have been accepted. So don't blame us for not putting forward proposals and putting the party interest above the national level. Answer these questions. Ask - I address the MPs - not out loud, but yourself: Is there a provision for households in the bill, yes or no? Is there any provision for the obligation on the State to commit to what percentage will it cover the damage to undertakings, yes or no? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u266	Don't worry, Mr. Red, as much as you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u267	I come to the amendments. He said the Minister, Mr Stakoras, rejects the parliamentary amendments. Let me remind you a little - and since there has been talk of the inconsistent professional account - that the amendment we tabled on Monday is, in fact, accepted by the government. Because yesterday the Ministry of Labour - through a press release, an official announcement - said that the time period for regulation - would be extended to twenty instalments. I would like to ask this: is the Katorugalou law good now? This law, the 2020 Act, has no difference with the 2019 Act. And you know what the 2019 Act says, which you repeat in 2020 with Law 4756? That the debt of the free professionals, the farmers, the self-employed from what will be determined? Let me hear it! It will be determined by income. Is this a fair way of calculating the debt? And you repeat this - and you do well - by the 2020 Act. Now is the Katrugalu law good? And because you said about the professional, behold Rhodes, behold the fuck, Minister. Please proceed to the introduction of the inconsistent business account. We, over a period of memorials, have introduced the irresponsible for farmers and you know it very well. Why are you laughing? Didn't it? Proceed to an equivalent inconvenience for the professionals. We are voting in favour of the Immigration Ministry's amendment. We are not voting in favour of the amendment by the Ministry of Sports. As regards the last amendment, you could have brought these provisions, Mr Minister, at least yesterday or the day before, and not three hours before the end of the sitting. I think that they do not correspond to a good piece of legislation of this kind, namely the amendments being much more pages than the draft law itself. I think I was clear, because in principle we say'represent', but we are voting in favour of most of the articles in the bill. Because it does not answer key questions for both households and farmers, but for entrepreneurs, who have received only 20% and at least you do not commit either oral or written and say '20% and you will get the other 50%, the other 40%, the other 80% in five months, in one year'. This is how the relationship between the trust of a citizen and a state is built? And you are calling us and asking yourself, 'Why don't you vote?' Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u268	Thank you, Mr. Red. Mr Arsenis has the floor from Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u269	Thank you, Mr President. MPs and MPs, Secretary of State, our position from the outset is in all three issues that we identify in this bill. One is the increase in the budget, which is welcome. It was an unenforceable budget, we had denounced it. But where are health increases? Like the budget now, its review is happening as if there is no health crisis, as if we are not currently living in the absolute saturation of hospitals, in an escalation of the health crisis, with waves coming back to the future, as the World Health Organisation tells us. In the part of the compensation from natural disasters, again here will there be compensation actually lost, for example, for farmers? Will they be made with actual data, or will they be made again with average production models in the region concerned, average price per product and so on? We need a government commitment, not another mold, but a commitment to real compensation for total damage. The third point which is also important for us is Amendment 1, Article 12, concerning winds. And here we will repeat this: you allow us to approach boats at any point, beach or other point of the coast, and the windlines do not come from the ports. But you are obviously allowing this - obviously because there are reactions from local societies and you want to circumvent them - at the same time and throughout the whole operation in the essence of the winds, as well as needs to be carried over parts - as the amendment describes - will also exist during the repair. In essence, this is a concession of hayaloo and beach to these companies. They don't just take mountains. They do not only take NATURA areas. They take both the cavalry and the beach. At this point I would like to add and close with a complaint about what is happening today in a cavalry near us in Piraeus. We may be talking with terrible krone for the two hundred years of the Revolution, but at the moment you are building, in practice without an environmental impact study, a project, a huge port, a port in Piera, outside the sea, that will cut the tomb of Themistocles out of the whole region of the Battle of Salamis. At the moment, the fourth cachus with various materials, for which there has been a lot of discussion about their quality and their pollution, has fallen into the Pirate. This infection is dispersed all over the Pieraic, there's a blur all over. The movements are running in the courts, making insurance measures over and over and over and we have a state that goes ahead, strengthens and encourages work which is, at the very least, incompletely licensed. This has to stop sometime. So for us the 'no' comes for all three issues. 'No' for the revision of the budget, by giving us money again to the five major entrepreneurs and clearly not to health. 'No' for a natural disaster fund, which does not deal with the big issue, which is the full compensation of the affected. Of course, 'no' for winds, which you have actually granted to large construction companies, the contractors of the RES. A clear 'no' to all of these three issues from Mera25. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u270	Thank you very much. The rapporteur, Mr Amanatidis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u271	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, first of all, I would like to thank the speakers from both the other parties and, in general, the Members of all the groups - for the good and productive climate which prevailed during today's plenary sitting and for the four previous committees' meetings. On the occasion of the closure of the bill today, I would like to give some clarification and say my opinion on a number of issues. Firstly, it is clear because there have been issues which concern and which do not concern themselves, that the draft law concerns the payment of a subsidy for losses to undertakings and legal persons of a non-profit character. It's clear and there's nothing behind it. All the arrangements of the draft law to that effect are being step up and these issues are being regulated. My second point is that it does not include classical damage to farms, such as frost, rain, high temperatures, which are, as we say, contributory. And I would remind you that for the first time last year, at the initiative of the Prime Minister of the country, Mitsotakis, he was paid at an extra sum of 35 million in compensation. Also, within the framework of this draft law, which will constitute a law shortly, costs not covered by the ELGA Insurance Regulation, as well as other losses granted under the State aid Regulation, may be covered. It expressly states in Article 11: "It does not include compensation for infrastructure projects paid by the Ministry of Interior to municipalities, with resources from the Public Investment Programme. It does not include compensation for anti-military armour made through resources from the Ministry of Transport and Communications. It shall not include compensation for the restoration of infrastructure and networks which may be carried out by the regions through financing by the Ministry of Development and by the Ministry of Interior.’; What I am saying now was said by the Minister at the fourth meeting, if I remember correctly, by the Committee on Economic Affairs on this subject and it was very clear. In fact, all these sums that I mention are about EUR 600 million in the case of 'January'. In addition: ‘It shall not include compensation for the first needs of households and for a device covered by the Ministry of Interior’. Therefore, the stinging of some possible shortcomings in the draft law does not mean that, as you can see, they are financed by other sources of funding. As respectively: “It does not include compensation for housing which is also financed by the Ministry of Transport and Communications with funding from the Ministry of Finance. In addition, it does not include housing assistance to natural and legal persons, rent subsidies and accommodation. Claims, these are known not to be included because they are included from other sources of financing.’ One more thing I want to say is that there has been talk of proposals that have been accepted. This reflects how the government perceives consultation and opposite or different or, I would say, useful opinion. It doesn't mean it saves well, as it seemed to mean, that one side passes its views on the other side. We should charge this as a creative correlation between all the factions within the House. Also, there was talk of the notion of theory. However, as theory cannot be determined as we want it, it is determined by Union texts and therefore, it could have a different interpretation on different issues. There is no building activity that cannot be integrated, in short. I say this because a number of points have been raised in the committee's discussions, such as those involving or not including fishermen, questions have been raised, such as those concerning forestry and so on. Claims shall be reported for each legal entity carrying out a building activity. There has also been a debate on the amendments which have been tabled as many in number and content. The Minister gave the appropriate answers on this matter. I would add that every issue should be dealt with in the light of whether it is useful, that is, if the amendments are useful, if they solve problems, as I have said in my prototype, and if they give prospects. These arrangements serve these objectives. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. The Members who were put on the contents of the bill did not express a different view of the practice, despite certain verbal differences. I repeat that where the proposals were productive, they were taken into account. Now, with regard to the impact of recent losses from glaciers in a large geographical part of the country, a specific strategy and quantification will be followed. When's that? When the fruiting process is over and we come to the fruiting stage, where there really can be a picture of the size and importance of the problem. I am also sure, because I know how the government works, that the government is dealing with matters which are the subject of these losses caused by ice-cream, that is to say, those relating to manufacturing enterprises which were using the products of these agricultural undertakings as a raw material. There has also been a reference to the fact that this bill refers to and invokes the need to draw up several JACs or ministerial decisions. I think that every law should be judged on the simplicity, on the feasibility, anyway, and on the flexibility it gives, so that any change is not time-consuming through changes in the legislative framework, but through changes in common ministerial decisions and ministerial decisions. Finally, a reference was made to whether, in the end, the percentage covered by the draft law relates to 100% or less. I think that so far no one has said that it is not 100%. Where the law wants it is for farmers who are damaged, but are not mostly farmers and says that it covers up to 50% of the damage. Finally, it is well known that the design, the legacy and the others have the value we give them when they go to be implemented. I therefore call on even those who express reservations, despite the fact that information has been provided and the issues raised have been explained, to give the value of this drafting, this legislation. In this way, we will really be able to judge this draft law, which is now law, when it is implemented in practice and without it being badly improved, when it comes to implementing it, for which we should all try and do all the means we have. I think I also gave the explanations I thought were necessary for the provisions of the draft law. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u272	Thank you, Mr. Amanatidis. The debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "State aid to enterprises and non-profit-making bodies for natural disasters, urgent arrangements to support the economy, supplementary State budget and pension arrangements and other urgent provisions" is hereby concluded. We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles, the amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. I would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, thirty-one articles, four ministerial amendments, the office article, and the entire bill. You need to make sure that you have voted for all the articles, amendments, as well as the farewell article and the whole bill. After your vote has been registered, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u273	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u274	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u275	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘State aid to enterprises and non-profit-making bodies for natural disasters, urgent economic support arrangements, supplementary State Budget and pension regulation and other urgent provisions’ has been accepted by a majority, in principle, of articles and all, and has as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u276	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u277	The House has given the mandate requested. Thank you all, in and out of the Chamber, and I wish you a good night and Panagia with you. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-21-S1-commons.u278	With the consent of the House at 19.58 the meeting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday 22 April 2021, at 10.00, on the subject of this House's legislative work: only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Justice: "Code of Justice".
