ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S2-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICE: In accordance with Parliament's 26-7-2021 authorisation, the minutes of the PRB meeting were endorsed by the Bureau on Monday, July 26, 2021, on the part of the Party concerning the special agenda for the Plenipotentiary, by its President, between the members of the Council of State, the Ice Bay and the Public Prosecutor of the Ice Region, appointed or promoted to the extent that they possess before the submission of the proposal for prosecution, for the appointment of five regular and three alternate members of the Judicial Council, as well as his Deputy Prosecutor and Deputy, in accordance with Articles 86(4) of the Constitution, 158(1) and (2) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament and of Law 3126/2003 ‘Privacy of the Ministers’, as applicable, after 14 July 2021 of the House, to the exercise of the former Plenipotentiary Mission until 91119.]] Before we proceed to the debate on today's topical and urgent debate, let me first make two announcements to this House: Firstly, the Standing Committee on Educational Affairs submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs "Study Upgrade, Strengthening Educational and Other Provisions". Secondly, the Ministers for Labour and Social Affairs, Economic, Development and Investment, Citizen Protection, National Defence, Education and Religion, Health, Culture and Sport, Justice, Home Affairs, Immigration and Asylum, Maritime and Island Policy, Rural Development and Food, Tourism, and Deputy Ministers of Finance, Health and Home Affairs submitted a draft law on 24-7-2021 ‘Security Reform for New Geneia: the introduction of a capitalisation system of predefined contributions to subsidiary insurance, establishing, organising, organising and operating a Fund for Capital Insurance and related provisions’. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS In writing, the Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs informs the House that the questions to be discussed are as follows: The Questions Nos 946/14-7-2021, 964/19-7-2021, which will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, George Zavvos. The Question under number 951/19-7-2021, which will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Civil Protection, Mr Nikolaos Chardalia. The Question under number 945/14-7-2021, which will be answered by the Secretary of State for Education and Religious Affairs Mr. Zoe Makri and by number 948/16-7-2021, 950/19-7-2021 and 960/19-7-2021, and Questions Nos 6670/18-5-2021 and 6814-24-5-2021, pursuant to Rule 130(5) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, which will be answered by the Secretary of State for the Environment and Energy, Mr. Nicholas Tagaras. We shall immediately proceed to the debate of the third under No 951/19-7-2021 on a topical question by MP I Eastern Attica of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Ioannis Giokas to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "Protecting the National Park of Schinia and ensuring the conditions for access to it for the people". The Deputy Minister of Citizen Protection will answer Mr Nikolaos Chardalias. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S2-commons.u2	Undersecretary, the question relates to the National Park of Shinia which, as you know, is one of the few remaining green lungs of Attica, an ecosystem of very high environmental value and at the same time one of the few freely accessible beaches of Attica. And I say 'one of the few', because you have taken care of all the governments over the years, by privatising the coast, of the people not having access to the vast majority. What's going on lately? Not only this year, but last year and last year, it just increased even more. In the name and on the pretext of protecting the forest - and I will explain why I am referring to 'the name and pretext' - you are excluded from the authoritarian and unacceptable way that people often have access to the beach. And when we talk about the people, we talk about workers, we talk about pensioners, we talk about young people, about families, who cannot go to private and organised beaches. You can barely turn this world into a client of private beaches. You have even reached the point with a car park standing in the middle of the road to prevent entry even to residents or visitors in the area whose visit has nothing to do with protection or weather conditions, even E9, so that a resident can go to his home, to the settlement that exists, well or badly, within that area. Why am I saying 'pretext'? For all these years, at the same time as you are talking about forest protection and you are doing all this in the name of protection, the national park has been literally left to its fate, the necessary forestry work is not done all the time that should be done, there is no integrated plan for the protection and ecological recovery of the park, it has never worked, as you know, the fire-fighting system that has been built for so many years with the Greek people's money and there is no study of whether it can or cannot function. Also, we are not protecting the aquatic habitat with rich flora and fauna, resulting in injury and the death of birds - I tell you because I live in the area, I have a direct knowledge of the area and its problems - which has become literally a dump. When we talk about the National Park of Schinias, we are also talking about the Koukounaria forest, we are also talking about the aquarium. You have recently made a number of speeches, as Civil Protection, controversial by destruction machinery, which, as we know, were carried out by the Forestry concerned and above and outside of any integrated and scientific protection plan. This foreign policy gives us the right to believe that they are not innocent. I don't know what plans there are. However, the degradation, on the one hand, of the protection of the park for years - I do not just pay tribute to you - and, in conjunction with the exclusion of the people from the park, refers to projects which either exist or set the ground for the exploitation of this area. The question is what measures will be taken to manage and protect Schinia from the competent services, with the fire-fighting system, with environmentally respectable work and make the park accessible to the people, through the creation of infrastructures which may need to be judged - these are matters of parking, escape routes, as there is no way out today at the National Park of Schinia - to stop the unacceptable and unjustified prohibitions on those who visit it and, in particular, on an integrated plan of fire protection, in the context of the overall management and protection of the park, which means strengthening the relevant office, the competent fire service and all this. That is why we want concrete answers from the State Secretary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S2-commons.u3	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S2-commons.u4	First of all, I would like to thank you for this question. I have recently seen many different communications from various bodies on these issues. I will agree with you on the critical approach to the issue of Shinia Park. The park was indeed left. The park does have huge problems. The institution, which was responsible for its protection, for any reason that it could not respond to this whole situation. And, of course, there are decades' responsibilities in relation to matters relating to protected areas in general. But - I'm sorry to say it - you make yourself known. At the same time that you have blamed the governments of all the last decades, at the same time as you are blaming us, because at last after all these years of arrhythmias, the paths of bureaucratic processes, the procedures which have not, by courage, brought about, by responsibility and by taking account of the burden of responsibility for human life and of the natural environment, we are finally entering an area and we are doing not what we feel is right, but the ones that arise from the different scientific consultants on these matters. The General Secretariat of Civil Protection - you are well aware - in the context of its mission under Article 28 of Law No4662/2020 declared in a situation of special mobilisation of civil protection, in accordance with Article 26 of the Law, eighteen areas of the Attica Region by decision of the Secretary-General, in an emergency, to a special civil protection mobilisation. What for? To protect the life, property of citizens, infrastructure and the natural environment due to the threatened risk of forest fires. You say it yourself. This special mobilisation situation has been adopted in order to launch projects and operations in accordance with procedures similar to those in force when a region is declared in an emergency. Among the projects requested to be launched and initiated on the basis of this decision were the projects which you doubted were not carried out until now and which concern forestry, phytosanitary manipulation and vegetation, work and cleaning. What for? It's self-evident. To reduce the risk in areas of very high protection. And one of these areas was Schinia's park. And despite the fact that the area is referred to as a national park, property - you know it very well from your experience - the coastal forest does not belong to the Greek public and a part of it has been built and described as zone B2-I think - to the relevant presidential decree. The coastal forest of zone A3, as defined in the above presidential decree concerning the Shinia Park, ownership of what we know again, does not belong to the Greek State. It has a total area of about fourteen thousand acres, made up of clusters of champerian pine trees that dominate east and pine cones growing mainly west and almost throughout its area is planted with bushes such as chinese, porcupines and others. The forest in the south ends up in a sandy beach, which you call on the issue of accessibility, three and a half miles long - is zone B1, if I remember well, as it is identified - and shallow waters. So, on the basis of these features, it is clear that such a coastal forest for Attica was and is the attraction of hundreds of thousands - you will allow me to say a few days - citizens especially during the summer months for mainly recreational reasons, resulting in the pressure exerted on the forest ecosystem by the visitors of summer and in the A3 zone in the woods and on the B3 shore to be large. I will tell you attributes that the Municipality of Marathon for the needs of the collection of the visitors' urban waste in the woods - which you rightly invoke - during the summer months has on a daily basis four dumps and twelve weekends. Despite the fact that during the summer months the risk of fire is likely and based on the history of its manifestation in the wider area and the attendance of visitors large, preventive fire protection measures have been and remain inadequate for a long time. I, too, have been referring to the fire-fighting system, preventive spray pillars, which has never worked. You know this debate could take place in total, not in the context of a timely question, because I too must not abuse the time that the Bureau gives me. But the reality is: the huge risk of visitability, the total lack of forestry manipulations for many years. We could just observe her. We did something different. Did we prevent citizens from being visited? No way. What did we do? We financed the Municipality of Marathon so that during the summer and especially the period we have fours and fives to move and the people to the shores with specially shaped vans and all that car does not pass into the woods. If you consider this to be an attempt to cut the people's accessibility to the forest and at the same time to blame us for doing nothing to protect the forest, one is inconsistent with the other. We cannot talk about forest protection and at the same time talk about hundreds of cars which will enter the main web of this protected forest system. You understand that, too. What did we do? We've taken a step further. We adopted the proposal of the Municipality of Marathon. We financed directly, and we visited it. We didn't make a parade, Your Honor. Whenever we go there, we go for a certain reason. And along with the Minister, Mr Chrysochoidis, but also with the executives there, and with the body, we have met once and for all once and for all. And what do we do? We're giving them the chance not to get all of them in there. I understand that there are some local businesses there that can be seen through this process as being affected, but above and beyond any entrepreneurship the protection of the forest is counting. And I end up in my first speech saying this: You know, all this time, I've been watching the debate that's been going on like a game of sovereignty, about who's responsible for the forest. Who are responsible for the forests is clear in the legislation. Who are responsible for the cleaning up of forests again is clear and in the general plans issued by the Civil Protection. You want me to tell you who's not responsible for cleaning in the woods? The General Secretariat for Civil Protection. Do you want me to tell you who is currently through the 'DRYADS' programme in areas that are extremely difficult and at risk of cleansing the forests? The Civil Protection. It is a great debate that has to be opened since September. And this debate will be opened, because all those who invoke scientific data on the way the studies are going, and they realise that we are actually doing the same thing - what they themselves have been asking for from time to time with their various documents - now come to say whether they are in consultation and the necessary approvals. You know, it's not a game of dominance. The natural environment, human life, human property is not a matter of bureaucratic stunts that have been afflicting us in recent years. It's going to be solved. And the part of our responsibility and our duty will be carried out. I hear a number of screams. I will not confront all those who prefer to burn a forest that has been gross for decades now under the responsibility of the protector, just because the approval was given by other forestists and without the letter of the law being followed. We're cleaning up the woods. Do you know why we clean it up? To save it, so that people don't have to be locked in, that fire vehicles can come in, pass and be able to work. That's what we're doing. We're doing nothing more. We don't have any more risks. Our stake is specific and we will serve to the end. And I reserve it if anything comes up, to come back. In any case, remember that we seek and cooperate, we are very respectful of the forestry service and the experience of these people. We understand the difficulties that exist, with a regime with which they are underfunded, have a lack of staff, but until all these issues are resolved, which we as the dominant agenda of September, cannot simply be seen in everything that is happening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S2-commons.u5	Thank you, too, Mr. Undersecretary. Mr. Giokas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S2-commons.u6	Mr. Undersecretary, your reproach was very specific. It was because you, as a government, like previous governments, continue a policy that has no integrated scientific protection plan for national parks including Schinia. Right now that we're talking about, is there a comprehensive scientific protection plan for Schinias? There isn't. Nor is it an integrated protection plan the machinery you sent out a week and the interventions you made that were controversial! Is that an integrated plan? You say 'We clean up the forest'. Right now, the woods are cleaned? That's where I was this weekend. I would like to inform you that he is a dump, and the forest and the water land to which you are not referring. Because the question has two legs, it has both the forest and the wetland. Third question: If there was an integrated protection plan, could it be ensured by rules? The question, Mr. Undersecretary, was very careful. We do not support inconsistent access to the forest by cars to the beach and everything. It's a very specific question. We are talking about rules, we are talking about infrastructure, we are talking about ways of escape that are not there, we are talking about parking, in an area that is still building up in some parts of it. Can't a parking lot be built to serve people, people with disabilities, retired people who can't move or can't afford to go to private beaches? That is why we are talking about an integrated protection plan, which you do not have, and about a ban, which actually loads the State's shortcomings on the back of the world. That's it. We did not say that there would be no rules or immunity. Even the coaches you're referring to are not for the days with four and five. I'm correcting you here. The days he's got four and five, there's no coach. The coaches are for the other days, no fours and fives. Let's go down. This is therefore the crucial question, if there is a comprehensive plan of protection and ecological recovery, on the side of the state, Mr. Undersecretary. I accept that, at the moment, the Civil Protection and the Police have been burdened with protecting the forest. Don't you realize that this is a problem, a political, a methodological, a scientific problem? Is it possible to protect the national parks of the country, to rectify them, to exploit them, to be issues of civil protection and police? That in itself, the admission you made here a moment ago shows the big problem. The question of integrated protection is firstly about the competent bodies, with preventive measures that must be in place and with a central role the bodies with scientific knowledge, for example, the forests, which have been left to mercy. Of course, there will also be involvement of other bodies, including fire-fighting and civil protection and other ministries. But who's responsible for this? And just that you admit here as a government - because we are asking the government, we are not asking the Deputy Minister Chardalia closely - that the Civil Protection has taken this issue into account in itself shows the size of this problem. You want me to give you an example, recently, of the weekend? Within the weekend there was a replacement for the network of the DAD. The cables have been changed and they have been placed, Madam President, in exactly the same way. Instead of subjugating the cables, after you entered the replacement process, when you know very well that part of the forest fires is due to the networks too, when the Prime Minister had pledged that the network would be subrogated, if this subrogation from the national parks of the country, in Attica, from where will it begin? So here's how it looks the perforated nature of your policy, the perforated character. And the world is uploading it. I'm ending up with this. You know, I don't want to go in - nor was the question such a character, I think - to a body, political protection and so on, nor do I want to open up a debate on how management bodies were built, when they were made, how they were deported along the way by all governments, and although management bodies have both scientific and financial tools to support and protect such ecosystems. But the dilemma remains, the question remains. Do you have an integrated scientific plan to protect the national park and every national park in the country? You don't have one. If you had, it could be ensured, by rules, again, subject to conditions, and the people's access to this space for their recreation, for their need. It is not luxury and not everyone has the financial potential. I conclude, Madam President, by saying that the logic that you have developed and which you have is the same logic in pandemic, a problem of state deficits, a lack of a project by the state, a lack of individual responsibility and an individual obligation in the world. That's the same logic, it's the same logic.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S2-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S2-commons.u8	Firstly, the question of protecting our forests is obviously also an issue of individual responsibility. I think that, if anything, you recognize it. Because the fires don't enter the state. For the fires, if you see - and yesterday when we ran eighty-nine weekend fires - some don't take their individual responsibility. In any case, however, you know very well that with Law 4685-2020 this government has changed the institutional framework and still has to test its new plan in relation to both parks and protected areas. But I understand the difficulty of entering into the issue of confrontation, but you need to take a position. In other words, the way in which operators have been invited so far - and I am saying this clearly and with absolute confidence in the science of operators' executives and, in particular, of Schinia parks, who have experienced staff, exceptional staff, and which should be precisely after the change of the institutional framework to see how this staff can be exploited, is another issue. The question is whether these bodies were able throughout Greece or in this particular park to respond to their role. You're saying yourself there's a system since 2004 and I know what I was told by the agency? "We don't need the system, we don't want it, it's the system's wrong." We must therefore see to what extent each body's purpose serves the logic beyond research programmes, as well as the existence of forest itself. Because, beware, the Presidential Decree says "The anti-nuclear organization of the site is being attacked after a study and approval has been prepared". Where are these? Who was watching these? Nobody. ‘Regional fence of the forest shall be applied to the boundaries of the zone in such a way as to permit the passage of species of fauna.’. You mentioned it, too, substantiated, has been dissolved, there are no maintenance possibilities. But at the same time, why are we interfering with what hide? That Article 6 states ‘all prohibitions shall be exempt from interventions imposed on grounds of force majeure and exceptional circumstances in order to avoid foreseeable risks’. So everyone recognizes that there is a danger of fire for the natural environment in the Schinia Park, as well as for the thousands of visitors it has, and for human life. So the question is, did the Civil Protection have to intervene or not? Obviously, we had to, and we didn't hide whose authority it was. This is because of Greece, that everyone is hiding behind responsibilities, behind strangles, behind ideologies. We took a responsibility, and, indeed, we took it by listening to the citizens themselves, not only to the self-government, but to the people who love the forest, who fight for the forest, to the forestists. The technical reports that came in, what are they doing? What does the "intellectual" of the technical report say? ‘It is proposed that similar vegetation be cleaned in a sufficient depth and comprise trimmings up to four metres from the ground, containment of the underwater and grass. Cleanings in a larger depth than the perimeter zone shall be recommended, as the situation is particularly dangerous if the competent bodies are informed.’; That is what the technical report says, for which so many communications have been made. My question is: Who said in April that it would be useful to have an extensive action to remove the dry intrinsic and pine trees and the dry branches with dangerous inclination in fixed trees or in intimate piles? Who said that cutting, and if possible shattering, then, the fragmentation and cutting of trees with specific machinery - this dried biomass would make an effective contribution to minimising the risk of starting or fast transfer of fire, so also to protecting human life, and would also contribute to the enrichment of the soil, so also to assisting the regeneration of the pine cones forest, which is a priority habitat? Adopted by the Commission on 22 April. What's changed?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S2-commons.u9	Mr. Undersecretary, this isn't the problem with the agency.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S2-commons.u10	So what do we do? Let me tell you something else. The body called upon to contribute to the evacuation and human life track responded in a letter of 10 June that there was no provision for evacuation plans by management bodies. That's it! You realize what I'm saying. So far this effort, one to throw the ball away and, finally, everybody to cry over the burn. You are absolutely right, in relation to your critical approach, whether, until now, all these decades, these issues have had to come into a different logic or not. But it's time. And it is time for responsibility, which we as Civil Protection will take to the end. Because our responsibility is deeply patriotic and concerns three constitutionally guaranteed values: human life, human property and the natural environment. And we will serve them without any hesitation, no flammable, no indifference, with a degree of responsibility above and beyond everything that has been displayed so far.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S2-commons.u11	Thank you very much, Mr. Undersecretary. The Deputy Minister of Finance, George Zavvos, will answer the fourth question under number 946/14-7-2021, first question by the Deputy of Serres of the Greek Solution Mr. Konstantinos Boubas, to the Minister of Finance, on "Not at the closure of the only bank of the Municipality of Amphipolis" Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes. Please be more brief on questions and have a little more time in your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S2-commons.u12	Thank you. Minister, this is a very important issue which has social and economic implications. You also have a very large amount of scientific training, in terms of the banking system, with a lot of knowledge. But a question arises in a historic municipality that has parchment and prospects and degrades the quality of life: “Who finally does the charge in this place?” which the people say to the slumber. Are the bankers or politicians in charge? I say this, although you know it better than me and as a technocrat and as a legal officer and because you are a specialist in the financial system. After all, you have been very helpful in aligning with European law our own banking system. But, Mr. Secretary, will we have the banks that decide on the fate of the people? And I say that, because that particular municipality of Amphipolis had a branch, and that closes. You realize that this is a great blow to everyday life. There are elderly people who will not be able to serve. There are potential tourists in the old Christian amphipolis, Tymvos Kastas, on the beach of Kerdyllis, because this municipality also has a beach. It's a municipality in the foothills of the Pangaios. It is also the birthplace of your party's founder, Constantine Karamanlis. There's a branch of Piraeus Bank, and this closes. I ask: is this how we publish regional decentralisation, regional development? The banks have within their equity composition and the Financial Stability Fund itself by 61%. And there is a lot to be said about the role of the fund. After all, his role - something we have asked of the institutions - will change in the coming years, because the banks will not need the respective recapitalisations. We must at least press the banks with political will. Moreover, it has every right to press the public with 61% of shares and, indeed, with a loan received by the specific bank of EUR 2,72 billion and possibly damage the State since 2015, with some repayment clauses and the share that has gone up six times. You know that. Piraeus Bank must be persuaded, with political will, in order not to close the branch - in fact, it has been closed for a few days - that the municipality, too, can hope for its inhabitants there, in the beautiful municipality of Amphipolis and in the city's headquarters, in the beautiful Rodolivos, to be able to hope that we will be able to look after the region, that we will be close to the region, in order for there to be regional, indeed, decentralisation. We already have an elderly population who has taken it down, and the issue of births and residents in the region. Don't hang up and what's left. Do you understand this question that the people are saying: who is finally calling the shots in Greece? Do politicians or bankers do? You need to see it, please, with great sensitivity. It is a municipality which is very historical, and only the word 'Aphipolis'.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S2-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr. Colleague. Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S2-commons.u14	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. MEP, Mr. Bouba, we understand your appeal and obviously the appeal of the municipality of Rodolivos, which wants to maintain the local store of Piraeus Bank. After all, with your question, it is also an opportunity to clarify a number of issues relating to the banking policy in this area. As we know, each bank is a private business and has, obviously, its own business policy and autonomy in terms of decision-making. In particular, the issues of the establishment, operation or closure of the banking branches fall within the business policy of the banks. According to the relevant information we have as a Ministry from the banking institutions, in the branch networks, as they form at this juncture, a policy is always pursued after a number of parameters have been assessed and weighted in relation to a series of data, such as the costs and functionality of the networks. In your question you mentioned how much the Greek State could do through the Financial Stability Fund, which you say holds the majority of Piraeus Bank shares, to press in order to allow appropriate intervention to be given to the bank's management. Here, I would just like to make it clear once again that by the founding law of the Financial Stability Fund, the Greek State is unable to intervene in its decisions and this institution must act as an independent body. It is also stipulated that following the increase in Piraeus's share capital, the Financial Stability Fund does not, as you said, have 61% of the shares but 27%. I should also like to remind you again of what Article 1 of the founding law of the Financial Stability Fund says. It says that the Financial Stability Fund "does not belong to the public sector or to the wider sector" and "has administrative and financial autonomy". At the same time, the law speaks of a purely private character of the fund. Shortly thereafter, it says that its institutions “operate with full autonomy and do not seek or accept instructions from the Greek Government or from any other state body or financial institution supervised by the Bank of Greece and are not subject to any kind of influence”. Moreover, ‘the Greek government or other state body does not give any kind of instructions to the members of the fund councils’. I'm stopping here on the report. It is also concluded that the Financial Stability Fund operates with a relative autonomy. As regards the substance of your question, I would like to say that the banks - and it is well known, especially at this juncture - are investing in electronic and digital modernisation, so that they can adapt to competition. Therefore, the work that presupposes a natural presence is now very limited and has to do mainly with repayment or deposit of cheques, debt regulation, expansion of a credit line or interest in obtaining a loan. As regards the specific case of your question, we asked Piraeus Bank, which replied in writing, that in this region where the branch is closed, an ATM will in any case be maintained. He also told us that the residents and businesses of the Municipality of Rodolivos will be able to be served by the branch of Piraeus New Zichni Bank, within twenty kilometers of distance, as well as the ATM at the Agricultural Partnership of the First Serres, which is about four kilometers away. I would like to reply here, Mr Papoutsis, to the question: who is running the test in this place, namely in a place, in a country where there is a rule of law, the answer is the elected government and, on the other hand, within the given framework of the law, obviously businesses, banks and everyone else. There's no conflict or anything else. Everyone operates within the framework of his responsibilities. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S2-commons.u15	Me too, Mr. Undersecretary. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S2-commons.u16	Thank you, Madam President. I am not satisfied with your answer, Mr Secretary, because you know very well how the financial system works in the sense of European banking law and all that has been heard about the Financial Stability Fund. You know - I imagine - and everything that has been said about the hybrid banking mechanism, about the Polson doctrine, for example, and what is going on there with private individuals, about the funds. I mean, it suits them. And while they have a lower percentage, they want to run the test and get stylish banks, which the people say. So we're talking about a vicious banking system, which puts above all the numbers, puts above all the commission on electronic transactions in a municipality, which has tourist parchments - all that has been heard - and it's dissimilar, it's a semi-democratic municipality. The distance you say with New Zychni does not suit the elderly people to go to New Zychni. Generally speaking, the area, the area with a large breeze, global radiation due to Tymvos Kastas and the Amphipolis, is downgraded. So at least the seat of the Municipality of Rodolivo needs to be able to serve the citizens of the wider region. Going to the neighbouring municipality through a rough area - and streets not to be in the best situation - elderly people, who are trying to stay at their place, for the banking product they need to serve, cannot only be made automated, through electronic transactions. Here comes the question - what we are saying - that the roles are distinct, but at least the credit system, which you know very well for 30 years, must be pressed politically. Because I don't know. Is it the loans that the parties have received? Are some election campaigns of politicians that are not just a Greek phenomenon and are banks finally moving the strings in order to create a question of political will? But I will now be allowed, Mr Secretary, to say that you have promised and put yourself as government by your likes. I will testify in the Minutes what Mr Petsas has said to your fellow MEP Thesprotia Vasili Yoyakas and there is a link here. He says Mr Petsas: 'It is the Government's job to operate at least one branch at the headquarters of the smaller municipalities'. Where'd that promise go? It will be presented in the Minutes to remind and refresh the memory of the rulings that you have promised that with the regional decentralisation that the government is evangelizing and with regard to the old "Kissist", after "Kallikratis" and now "Kallikratis" you want to create a perfect state. If the final state is being put under so much pressure by the banking system, it cannot have political will, because Mr. Petssas here is being disproved or disproved by the banks or banks completely ignore him not to say another word. They're ignoring him. It's like he didn't say it. But Mr. Petsas promised it and so he reassured it with "Kallikrates", that the small municipalities would have their banking shops, a number of them. Furthermore, four - five banks have remained systemic. Piraeus Bank was established in 1916, has broomed all banks and did well. Her theme is business plan. Pick up everything. The last acquisition was in 2015 with the Panhellenic Bank. He's taken the Greek Industrial Investment Bank, ETVA. He's broomed everything. Well, do not give her a priori power to have a banking system against the quality of life of the citizens. Here, Mr Secretary, with the knowledge you have very well - it is clear here - that the numbers first count and then the people count. That's clear. This is what the political will shows. With every electronic transaction the banks, without having any staff, will leave either voluntarily, if you want, but they will leave, run, and they are big. There are thousands of bank operations. You know that. There has been a whole debate on this. We have come to a point when the Prime Minister himself has given up the banks, to call on the banks to lower the commission. And they're closing shops with the nice deposits of 53 billion euros. The Greeks' deposits are held by Piraeus. The wider area has numerous deposits. And we're talking about a historic municipality, which, if you like, is also the municipality of Constantine Karamanlis, the municipality of Thucydides, Philip, Alexander the Great, the municipality of Amphipolis. Is that how we upgrade the municipality? By shutting down the banks? I know that in depth you have this human sensitivity and the legal service you have studied and served. But that's clear here. The numbers count and people suffer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S2-commons.u17	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S2-commons.u18	Thank you very much, Madam President. I would like to say that the government's will, whether expressed by the Prime Minister, Mr Petsa, is given to support the banking system, in particular - and I would say - in the case of social banking, as must be expressed through the functions of the banking system, whether by reducing red loans or by reducing interest rates, either by reducing supplies or - if you like - by extending the transparency that must exist in banking operations and, above all, by offering better and quality services. And, as you know, on many occasions and in private within this House, we have called on the banks to implement their business policy, especially at this juncture, in the light of and in the public interest. And when I say public interest, I do not mean just a declaration or a letter of voids, but specific, implemented policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S2-commons.u19	They don't.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S2-commons.u20	You're wrong, and I'm going to explain that they are, Your Honour. They do, and I'll tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S2-commons.u21	Mr. Colleague, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S2-commons.u22	Banks must pay particular attention to the needs of their customers throughout Greece, especially the older ones, for whom they all realise that travel is not always easy, especially those in specific remote areas. I would like to say that we have also pushed the banks to coordinate their own actions and to provide alternatives, such as if they close three or four branches in a region, at least there is one that can respond to the needs of the region and consider other possible solutions that exist to serve customers who are not yet familiar with the operation of automatic machines. Of course, we all realise that, because of the pandemic and technology, much more than trade - more than 90% and especially at this time - is being done via electronic banking, i.e. via the Internet. And here I would like to say that our fellow citizens have been greatly favoured by these transactions, because there is no need to wait for hours in the bank series, but they can be served much more efficiently. And that is precisely the objective of the Government for the banking system, for which we are working systematically, so that it can actually play its part, which is to finance the real economy, that is, households and small and medium-sized enterprises, especially at this time with a significant reduction in the interest rates on loans. And here I would like to say again that the government is calling for the necessary social sensitivity of both banks and businesses. And in response to the issues you have raised, I would like to say that following the major forward-looking reforms that the government has implemented over these two years, after a decade of crisis and a shrinking of the Greek banking system, our banks again find their pace and confidence and implement business plans. Red loans are drastically reduced, particularly with Hercules. And, as you know, from this year onwards, they will reach one-digit rates. But most of all, they are resorting to capital increases because they can now attract investors. More important, however, as you have seen in the last few days, the banks are again developing their dynamism with new business plans, expanding with takeovers and mergers in Cyprus and the Balkans, and we believe that in the next few years, the Greek banks will have to and will be the undeniable leaders of Southeast Europe, thus combining the demand for growth and prosperity in our wider region. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S2-commons.u23	Thank you very much, Mr. Undersecretary. Next, the fourth question by number 964/19-7-2021 of the SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance of Mr. Georgios Psychoyou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The Corinth Canal remains closed. A great loss of revenue, a great deal of anguish among workers and local society." And in this timely question the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Zavvos, will answer. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S2-commons.u24	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, a hundred and twenty-eight years were completed yesterday by the opening of the Corinth Canal, which is extremely important - and I think we should not say more - for the country and for the strategy it should have. But the problem today is that it remains closed, an extremely difficult to make for both the country and the county. And I'm going straight to the point. The occasional descents that took place in the canal were dealt with by the company's own means, as in 2018, when there was a similar situation of around 80,000 euros and within about 20 days the channel was reopened, with concrete measures, purchased drones, with the supervision of the canal, with modern techniques, with larger drainage channels and others. The 15-1-2021 took place, while two had precedented on 13-11-2020 and 21-11-2020, to come on 3-2-2021 and close in full. On 16-32021 we had a question with many colleagues in the relevant ministries. Unfortunately, so far nothing has happened at all. The Canal remains closed, without a timetable for reopening, resulting in a tragic lack of revenue for the public and the company, the continuing and growing insecurity of workers, the obstruction of safe shipping and thousands of sailing vessels and pleasure boats in Corinth. It is recalled that SYRIZA's revenues increased greatly, restored and implemented employees' requests and upgraded the means. Since, therefore, the company is not subsidised by the State budget and its revenues are disbursed every month, because the public is losing huge sums of money from its non-operation, especially from the period we are experiencing, because the insecurity of the employees is increasing and increasing, since all this time they are paid out of the company’s reserve, because the canals are being discredited and internationally discredited, and to remain closed has a multi-level impact on local society and the market in Corinthia and the Peloponnese, because, as has been shown in the past, at least at the moment, these damages can be dealt with by the company’s own means, you ask: Why not take the necessary steps to open the Canal directly, and what is the final timetable you have as a strategy of the Ministry of Finance in cooperation with the relevant ministries for this purpose, until the announced and widely advertised study and the work on dealing with the overall occupancy? Mr. Tagaras, my colleague, has mentioned this. Why not use the floating means of the canal to make this restoration and removal of the earthy tumors? What is the loss of revenue for this public period? Has the necessary and necessary measures been taken to ensure the uninterrupted payroll of its staff? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S2-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S2-commons.u26	Thank you, Madam President. I would agree with the honourable Member, Mr Psychogios, that it is indeed a hundred and twenty-eight years since the opening of the Corinth Canal and that this is one of the most symbolic works of the newly created modern Greek state. On the 13-11-2020 and 21-11-2020 in the Corinth Canal, we know that the earthy tumors have been discounted, so that the breakthroughs are interrupted. Immediately the "Company of Corinth Canal", AEDIC, proceeded with all the necessary steps to restore the drones and reopen the channel to become as soon as possible. At the same time, it went on to activate all stakeholders, and on 27-11-2020 it held a meeting at its offices on main issues, firstly, the safety and stability of the greens and, secondly, the maintenance and repair of the existing facilities. During the relevant technological study to determine the size and causes of the problem, carried out by the Hellenic Authority of Geological and Mining Research - EAGME - and the National University of Kapodistrian University followed two major discounts, which took place on 15-1-2021 and on 3-22021. In view of the above, it was decided to suspend the passages due to the risk and the restoration of the leeks. The AEDIK immediately after the collapse of the praes on the side of the Peloponnese on 15-1-2021 and in the letter of 19-1-2021 asked the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport to help restore the stability of the Corinth canals. In the letter, AEDIAK stated that it does not have the staff and resources to cope with the problems created by the unstable situation in greenhouses. The government's response, as you know, was immediate, because after consultation of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport with the Regional Director of the Peloponnese and with his relevant departments it was decided on 18-1-2021 with No. 15007 the Peloponnese Canal is declared in an emergency. Along with the number one. 29307/S6651 from 3-2-2021 decision of the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, the project to restore damage to the Corinth Canal was described as a complex and specific national project. Also by way of an emergency letter from the Minister of Transport, the Municipality of Loutrakio has carried out rehabilitation work on problems from the biological region. After this restoration, the first signs of improving the erosion of the greens at the site of biological purification have been shown. Immediately, number one. 15726 decision of the Secretary of State for Development, the project was incorporated into the Public Investment Programme of 2021 with a budget of EUR 9 million to restore a kilometre of greens. Finally, Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. 54236/1988 Minister for Infrastructure has approved the commitment of the necessary amounts and the procedure for the award of a restoration study. All the above direct interventions by the relevant Ministries and Government in general testify to the fact that all necessary steps have been taken to address the problem, to remedy the damage and to try to reopen the Corinth Canal as soon as possible. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S2-commons.u27	Me too, Mr. Undersecretary. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S2-commons.u28	Thank you, Madam President. Undersecretary, I think your answer reproduces what we have been told in our written question, does not add anything more and certainly does not cover this enormous anxiety, but also the damage currently suffered by both the Canal, the 'AEDIK SA', the workers, the local society as a whole, and the customers, that is, the navigation that uses this canal and which, as it does not, is worsening its position. We want concrete answers - with the co-legislative ministries obviously, but you have the strategy, you have the direction - to see when it will open and how, when it will reopen, how the public will not lose this revenue - which, reportedly, is millions of euros every month - and how the workers will be paid unintentionally because - I repeat - are currently covered by the reserve. There's rumors of loan, there's rumors of other ways of paying. That is what we want you to answer, as well as the fact that it has to do with tourism, with the image of the country. Surely - and I am not used to criticising statements - the Prime Minister's presence on the canal and his ignorance of being closed has not helped at all. It was challenging. I don't want you to apologize. It is not about you personally, but it is not possible in these conditions of the pandemic, the economic difficulty of the country and a canal that is a basic strategic weapon in our hands to have this image. Of course this also has consequences, which are too flat. It is a chain of remaining and perpetuating this situation. It has to do with suppliers, it has to do with local professionals, it has to do with - as I said - and with the management of all the elements that make up the Canal. So it cannot be so easily and despite the fact that it wants a specific intervention that has been covered by the same instruments and that these instruments are available and have the opportunity to say and intervene, it is not a solution to this issue. We are very concerned about it, and I think you should also take specific initiatives, have an integrated strategy, and I close with that, Madam President, and it is my last question. In other words, one is really what timetable you have and what action you have taken in this direction, beyond the co-legislative ministries, you as the Ministry of Finance, what will be done with the workers - I repeat - for their payroll and for what they are entitled to, and the third is what your philosophy and your plan for the Canal is. Because this is not only how we will meet the immediate needs, how it will open, or how it will regain its name and reputation, and how it will perform its role, it is also the fact that, because it is a friendly tactic - and I am very careful about what I say - public bodies are being denounced, and profitable, we ask and want a negative answer - I hope - if there is any thought on the back of the mind to privatise any parts of the canal, its real estate, its assets or others relating to its operation. I hope not. However, with this situation that continues, there is no intervention and because we have experienced a great deal in the Canal, and we have seen with tragic consequences when it has been privatised for its finances, for workers, for society, I hope there is no such thought, and I ask you in this process, since we have been led six months to closure. Thank you in advance for the answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S2-commons.u29	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S2-commons.u30	Thank you, Madam President. In relation to the honourable Member's questions and remarks, I would like to say that the recent presence of the Prime Minister in the Corinth Canal is to really underline the Government's active interest in the immediate restoration of its operation. As far as the questions you have asked in particular are concerned, I will give you some information. As far as revenue is concerned, I should like to point out that, from the current financial data, it is evident that the revenue collected is falling, with its causes being reasonably identified at the COVID pandemic -19, on the one hand, and on the other hand, the large percentages that took place at the beginning of the year and led to the closure of the Canal and the closure of the passages. However, I would like to point out that, despite the fact that the Corinth Canal will be completely deprived of revenue, it is a commitment by the company and the shareholder that no job will be at risk of being lost - and I stress this. In this context, the SCCS has already financially supported AEDIA, and supports it in its efforts to secure bank lending which will allow workers to be paid uninterruptedly until the work is completed. I hope I respond exactly to this question of yours. In conclusion, I should like to say that we should not miss the fact that ongoing work on restoring the Corinth Canal is the most important conservation intervention that has been done so far - at least in the last seventy years - and we should not reduce this, it is very important. With the completion of the work, and in conjunction with other initiatives by the AEDIC, the SPS and the co-responsible ministries, the Canal is expected to be shielded for many years now and, on the other hand, to become a development pole of super-local importance and great symbolism, which we understand is the Canal. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S2-commons.u31	When will it work, Mr. Undersecretary?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S2-commons.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. Undersecretary. Ladies and gentlemen, they will not be discussed in consultation: The second, number 955/19-7-2021, is the first question for the President of Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: 'Approximately addressing the problems created by the programmes of the olive sector'. The second under number 956/19-7-2021 is a topical question from the Member of the Hercules Parliamentary of the Change Movement, Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: 'Recording of the damage caused by high temperatures in agricultural crops and direct support measures for producers'. The fifth under number 957/19-7-2021 topical question by the MP of Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingaros Kegeroglou to the Minister of Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "To remove the unfavourable treatment of agricultural parcels from the legacy of rural restoration of Mirasia refugees" and the sixth under the number 958/19-7-2021 top second question by Hercules of the Change Movement Mr.Kingeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on "Support measures and promotion initiatives for Greek raisins". We move on to the debate of the fifth under number 948/16-7-2021 on a topical question from MP B2' Western Athens Section of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Enterprise of high-voltage lines in Agios Anargyros, Saint Varvara and Aigleo". The current question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Nikolaos Tagaras. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S2-commons.u33	Thank you very much, Madam President. Undersecretary, here we have a modern crime, an incomprehensible situation that I've brought to Parliament before and again. On behalf of Mr Hatzidakis and your Ministry, Mr Thomas replied. We have high-voltage in Agia Barbara on the houses, in Agios Anargyros we have in courtyards high-voltage schools and you understand that it is an image where these networks run all west Athens. We made commitments then in my timely question, on 8-11-2019, Mr Thomas said he would do, you would - your Government - everything you can to resolve the matter. We now have in the Recovery Fund the substitutability programme and we see that such areas are excluded. And I will specifically refer to the response here to the Parliament of Mr Amyras on 11 June 2021, which says that it has started and will start in some areas and mention the areas where the grounding programme will take place and exclude both Saint Barbara and Aigaleo, and indeed as regards the Saints and Cameroon, the timetables are ignored. We want you to tell us if it was Mr. Amyras' fault, if Aegaleo and Agia Varvara were included in the program of the Recovery Fund, what is the timetable for Saints Anargyros and Cameroon? And, obviously, because it's a key work, we're also talking about the high-voltage centre, the FYROF and we want you to tell us what the timetable is for the FYROM. And if these immediate necessities are not integrated into the Recovery Fund, how will they be financed and with what timetable?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S2-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S2-commons.u35	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Colleagues, I would like to tell you that as far as the government is concerned, it is in the interests of the Government to ensure the optimal maintenance and continued modernisation of the Greek electricity transmission system and of the regions of Igae in particular, which you have mentioned, with the aim of further technical excellence of the projects, the minimisation of the adverse environmental impact and the financial recompense of the projects, has been studied and planned for the construction of a new super-high-voltage centre in Ruff in the same area as the existing sub-station of Ruff. The new state-of-the-art Ruff substation will be of a closed GIS-type and its implementation will, firstly, result in the dismantling of the aged Ruff substation that is open-air type, the dismantling of the three airline transport lines of 150 KW connecting the Ruff substation to the superhigh voltage centre of Koumoundourou, the diversion of the 150 KW transmission line connecting the Ruff substation to the Shaft to the Kumundouros super-high voltage centre and the dismantling of the Ruf-Kumundouros division. Also, the construction of three new underground 400 KW cable lines connecting the Ruff High Voltage Centre to the super-high voltage centres of Koumoundourou and Acharon. Therefore, the removal of the 150 kW air lines into mind depends on the implementation of the Ruff High Voltage Centre. The construction of the ultra-voltage centre is described in the 10-year Greek electricity transmission system development plan drawn up annually by IPTO and approved by RAE with the prospect of completion in 2025. The prerequisite for keeping the timetable is the previous agreement between all the parties involved, the Municipality of Aigaleo, PPC, DEDDIE and IPTOE for the immediate implementation of the Presidential Decree of olive groves, in order to allow for the immediate start of licensing and construction procedures. In order to achieve this, and to speed up the procedures, a Memorandum of Understanding was signed at the initiative of the Ministry of the Environment in July 2020 between all the competent bodies in order to ensure the timely response of the relevant bodies, municipalities, regions and networks of general interest. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I'm gonna stop here and continue in my dentistry. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S2-commons.u36	Me too, Mr. Undersecretary. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S2-commons.u37	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Secretary-General, I will repeat exactly the statements made by Mr Amyras: 'The TEN has already begun the implementation of projects. It is immediately in the next few days to begin in the following regions of Attica: In Thraccomacedones, Acharnes, Cameroon, Heidari, Pyli, Petropolis, Ilioon, Byron, Nea Makri, Penteli and Horopo. This is already done.' Is Mr Amyras' statements true? As far as I understand it, you tell us about the Saints and the Cameroon. And here it is doubtful how the project will proceed. I want you to be a little clear. What is currently happening with western Athens? Is it on the lines that the projects have started and are being implemented? We're waiting when the Ruff Ruff is going to happen. And you say it'll happen by 2025. Is it with what funding? In what financial framework, if there are the ideal conditions you describe? By then, does the lines start subjugating or not? If not, what is the timetable for subordination of the lines in West Athens, Agia Varvaras and Aigaleo, which Mr Amyras told us is not going on, but also in the other areas that we understand, you tell us today that they do not go ahead with the projects? What we want, that is, to be clear about the timetable and funding, to know whether we are talking about some real projects that are going on or whether, once again, Western Athens will continue to live with the high-voltage pillars above its head and within the courtyards of its schools.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S2-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S2-commons.u39	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Colleagues, it is well known that subjugating power lines is a major issue. We have many side effects that it is still airborne in many sensitive areas and have been caused, which we all know, and things that have caused disasters in particular in the natural environment, in the forests and not just in the forests. It is therefore under way to replace the airline with a sub-installation with regard to electricity transmission. This is also done in Tatoi, and it is also under way in areas especially in the Lefkanopje, which is a priority for environmental protection. There are also what you are talking about in the programme, because everything needs to be done, of course, by making use of the resources that are available every time from the Recovery Fund, but also in cooperation with the relevant bodies that I have mentioned before. In particular, I would like to tell you that the municipality of Aigaleo and the agencies that have undertaken to implement the individual implementing acts are the primary role in authorising the High Voltage Centre. I spoke before about licenses. And because we are also talking about areas within a plan town, so that the necessary building permits can be issued, it must be completed with regard to the urban and rhetorical process, the excellence and building capacity of the land to carry out the projects, and for the construction of the underground cable lines the Attica region and the municipalities of Agia Varvara, Aspropyrgos, Haidari and Aigaleo have a primary role to play in the construction of the underground cable lines. With regard to the removal of high-voltage transmission lines which pass through the wider area of the Municipality of Agios Anargyra - Kamaterou and relate to parts of the following high-voltage air lines, we have the following: I refer first to the transfer line Ruff - Aliveri - simple circuit, to the transfer line Chalcedonna - Aliveri - double-circuit, transfer line Acharnes - Chalcedonna - double-circuit and the 10-year programme of development of IPTO. At this point, I would like to open up a parenthesis. Just because there have been many problems and delays in substituting the networks, there is a broad and long-term starting from now on, a programme that will be developed in the next ten years with priorities where, indeed, there are problems like those described. In the context of the modernisation and upgrading of its existing infrastructures for maintaining high reliability of the functioning of the EMS, the under-utilisation of the above "1" and "2" sections of transport lines, namely from the Halkidone substation to the height of the Attica Road of about four kilometres long, with implementation horizons in the second half of 2024, according to the programming that I referred to before. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] With regard to the construction of the Ruff High Voltage Centre and the new underground cable lines, the 10-year programme on financing development is included. The financing of the whole project is therefore guaranteed. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S2-commons.u40	Thank you, too, Mr. Undersecretary. We will proceed to the debate of the third under number 950/19-7-2021 on a topical question by MP B2' Western Athens Section of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'Renewing the fleet of taxis with anti-environmental technologies'. And in this timely question will the Secretary of State for the Environment and Energy, Mr Nikolaos Tagaras, answer. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S2-commons.u41	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, we have the government to come recently and legislate "I move electrically" and give some incentive to buy electric cars. And we see that of the thirteen thousand applications from the programme, at least on the basis of the information we have, only eight applications concern the acquisition of a taxi, while the taxi fleet will be renewed immediately. In other words, we have about eight thousand taxis in Athens and the rest of Greece that will necessarily change. They'll buy new ones and retire old cars. And while eight thousand professional cabs are changing, eight are the ones who got into the program. So it seems how classic it is, if you like, this program, as well as how far it has not arrived. He contacted the wealthy citizens and the companies, but not the professional who gets a piece of money and who keeps moving in the city. Mr. Screkas understood the fiasco and said the program would provide funding for two thousand taxi cars. And I wonder: In view of the fact that the time of using cars is 15 to eighteen years, do you say that of the eight thousand cars that will change, if your schedule succeeds, at least six thousand cars for the next eighteen years will be old technology and will they burn petrol or oil? Is it possible, at this critical point in the battle against climate collapse, to invest in technologies such as these in business cars, taxis, which are moving in the center of our towns constantly and unstoppablely? I want you to explain and, of course, tell us exactly what you are doing on this issue, what is your design, how your statements about the two thousand cars are being implemented, what is your design for the remaining six thousand, and what you will do to prevent this 'locking' of taxis into past technologies, technologies that escalate climate collapse.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S2-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S2-commons.u43	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Colleague, in fact, the transition from oil and gasoline to electricity also wants this time to develop. Need is given, it is known to all of us, and we are unfortunately living it, as often as time passes, because of climate change and the effects on the environment. That is why we have started - we have a job ahead of us - the issue of electromobility and support and the incentives that are being provided for this. I would like to say to you that the Ministry of the Environment started the programme 'I move Electrically' amounting to EUR 100 million for 2020 and 2021, with the aim of providing financial incentives for the purchase of electric vehicles. The aim is to increase the penetration of electric vehicles into the fleet of vehicles travelling within the Greek territory - among others, they are public passenger cars, the taxis to which you have also referred - so that we have a reduction in emissions of pollutants and protection of the atmosphere. One objective of the action is the renewal of public passenger vehicles and taxis. That funding programme shall be awarded an ecological bonus which shall be attributed in the form of a purchase or lease of purely electrical or hybrid electric external charging vehicles with a limit, in terms of carbon dioxide emissions, of 50 grams per kilometre. In particular, owners of public passenger vehicles, taxis, shall be entitled to buy or lease a purely electrical or hybrid electric external charge vehicle and shall be obliged to carry out a definitive declassification and withdrawal of an old vehicle by delivering the vehicles to alternative management systems or to collection points. Indeed, for purely electric vehicles for public use, taxis, with a retail price of up to EUR 50,000, the green bonus amounts to 25% on the retail price before tax, with a maximum of EUR 8,000, which is EUR 10,500, plus the amount of compulsory withdrawal of an old vehicle of EUR 2,500. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. I would also like to inform you that on 24 June 2021, the IT system of action had received eleven requests for taxi, eight of which were purely electric cabs and three hybrid external chargers. But I'm going to go on in my denture to fill out how these numbers are evolving today.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S2-commons.u44	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S2-commons.u45	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, out of the thirteen thousand applications in the "I save at home" programme you said that eleven are a taxi, eight electrical and three hybrids. I want you to explain why, because of the failure of the programme. Is technology immature right now? If this is the case, because we have a manoeuvring technology, give the margin to find an interim solution until the change of model to the new taxi takes place in two, three years that we will know that this technology will cover every need. Is that too expensive? The assessment is that this is the main factor. Right now it's too expensive. That is why you took off the program for the two thousand taxis, recognizing the failure of the "I move Electrically". But why two thousand cabs, when you know very well that eight thousand cabs will be withdrawn? Does the political leadership of the Ministry of the Environment now agree that by 2040 most of the taxi on our roads - at least as far as the fleet is concerned now - will it be oil and gasoline? Isn't that your concern? Aren't you going to take a measure to prevent it? Will you let us lock up the technology of cars on our roads in oil and petrol for the next twenty years? In my opinion it's incomprehensible. In my opinion it should also be incomprehensible to you. I invite you to tell us how to prevent this possibility from being affordable to taxi professionals and to be operational in terms of technology. Let us remember that taxi owners - drivers or not - are a sector which has been hit too much by the crisis and has not been compensated for the enormous losses it has suffered, while the state has kept the prices stable for the taxi tarif. This is right for citizens, but it is not enough for professionals in the sector. In other words, I want you to look at the issue globally, to propose a substantial solution as governors to prevent us from staying after 2040 with a taxi gasoline and diesel engines. At the moment, your policy is leading us.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S2-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S2-commons.u47	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Colleague, please fill in the information on what you have been asking. For the taxi category, the public expenditure of the programme amounts to EUR 15 million in total of EUR 45,800,000, with the possibility of modifying the allocation of public expenditure according to the absorption of the available funds by category. A significant increase in the amount of the ecological taxi bonus is also considered, with resources coming from the Recovery and Resilience Fund. I would also like to tell you the results of the "I Moving Electric" programme that you referred to before. Since the launch of the programme last August to date, thirteen thousand ninety-four applications have been submitted. With the aim of a thousand and thirty-five vehicles of the National Plan for Energy and Climate, two thousand and thirty-five electric cars were registered in 2020, with a share in the new classifications of 2.6%. In the first half of 2021, new registrations amount to three thousand hundred and eighty-seven and have already covered 84% of the target, which is three thousand seven hundred ninety-five, set in the National Energy and Climate Plan for this year. In the second quarter of 2021, registrations of electric vehicles increased by nine times compared to the corresponding period of 2020. It is a lot of things that are needed to change times, from a conventional era and not only in the issue of traffic and cars, but also in all the factors that are acting and creating the problems, side effects of which we have with climate change that occurs in many forms and in many areas with great frequency. The same goes for the question of electromobility. I would like to say to you that, precisely because the need for us to get away from and shape safer conditions by measuring and constantly interfering with corrective and complementary, the aim is to mobilise electricity - in more world terms and with more resources, using programmes - to exploit and optimise it. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S2-commons.u48	Thank you, too, Minister. In the first, with number 960/19-7-2021, a topical question by MP B2' Western Athens Sector of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Panagiotis Kouroublis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Public complaints for increased and incomprehensible electricity bills" will be answered by Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy Mr.Tagaras. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S2-commons.u49	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, democracy is of value when it works and builds a strong society rather than a society of strength that crushes the weak. And our parliamentary democracy becomes content when, in specific procedures, such as the timely question procedure, the government responds in a substantial way but also in a follow-up, because otherwise we are doing more of a job in this House than in the service of society. Minister, the question of rhetoric is well-known, recently in the area of Peristeri long hours, but not only there, with consequences for both professionals and households, a problem which damages all these people. And nothing has been done either by PPC or by the relevant ministries that are supervised. A next point which I would like to raise in mind is the investigations carried out by consumer organisations. The EMCDDA, an organization that cannot challenge its efforts, has a recent survey showing that 63% of the citizens find it difficult to pay the electricity and 85%, Minister, take care of it, feels it difficult to read the accounts and complex. It is an extremely serious and delicate issue which we must see how we deal with it. There are also complaints from other organisations, such as INKA, which says the accounts are great. Minister, we also have enough problems in this area, we have the famous misinformation of providers' advertising. If you think in your reply that what I'm saying is not accurate, I will accept, Minister, frankly, if you say so, that I am a slander. But it's not like that. There is misinformation in advertising, and I think that needs to be addressed, because it affects both democracy and our political system. Here we are serving society, not the specific providers and, of course, they also operate within the institutional framework, they have their right, but not to misinform the citizen. Is there, Minister, or is there not a harmonised policy in the efforts of providers and in the operation of all these units and businesses at the expense of the citizen? This is also an extremely crucial issue that we need to approach and see. If the Competition Committee also needs to intervene, then the State will also have to intervene. I am not saying or implying that the government serves the interests of these gentlemen. I may make very strict criticism to the government, but in this particular case I do not imply that. But it is a reality that you must tell us how to deal with in order to protect the whole world that is the Greek people, to its vast majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S2-commons.u50	Close down, Mr. Comrade, slowly.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S2-commons.u51	Madam President, I'm closing. There is also a matter, Minister, concerning the difficulty that many households have in paying the increased bills and regular bills. It is also an issue that you must tell us how to approach and how to deal with. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S2-commons.u52	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S2-commons.u53	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Colleague, thank you for your remarks and I respect all that you have said. Because, indeed, the transition from an old system to the supply of energy to new, more providers is in progress. There are peculiarities and problems in all that you have referred to. I would like to say to you that, throughout Europe, prices on the wholesale electricity market are formed at high levels, with data just last month, that is, in many countries, prices are formed at comparable levels to Greece, such as in Italy EUR 98,16 MWh, Slovakia EUR 97,2 in Czech Republic 97,07. Moreover, high prices on the wholesale market are largely due to heavy heat leading to a significant increase in demand. It is because of climate change, because this also affects even what we are discussing, as is many others, as well as an increase in the price of gas and of prices in the emissions system. However, we have already taken the appropriate steps to contain and reduce the price of invoices that you have rightly referred to before your comments. With regard to the increase of prices in the wholesale market, the investigation of potential distortions of competition in the electricity markets by RAE of L.4425/2016 has already begun, checking any price manipulation and any application of harmonised practices. In this context, five electricity providers have been invited in writing to provide preliminary explanations at a specific teleconference with RAE's Plenary Session. It is stressed that the Authority has set as one of its main objectives the monitoring of the wholesale market. Subsequently, it continuously collects data from both the Greek energy stock exchange and the IPTO S.A.. As regards aid to our fellow citizens, the practical support for our economically vulnerable fellow citizens who have proved to have access to essential energy services is one of the key priorities of the government and Prime Minister. We have already announced that we are going to allocate 100 million of the resources of the Recovery Fund for 100% of the construction of photovoltaics which will be able to offset electricity exclusively with vulnerable households. But I will continue with support for vulnerable households in my dentistry. Thank you very much, Madam President,
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S2-commons.u54	Thank you too, Minister, because you always keep your time. Come on, Mr. Comrade, you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S2-commons.u55	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I sincerely want us to have a fruitful dialogue, because the people who listen to us live the real anxiety on these issues that we are discussing. I would like, frankly, for what you said in your reply to give us a time commitment, when about you are counting, we will have answers if, in fact, there is harmonisation in the tactics of providers, if there is misinformation in advertising - because there is, Minister - and what measures will be in a concrete way. These gentlemen, Minister, and Madam President, must understand that they live in a favoured state. It is not in a society where interests will prevail against society. So we have to see in particular when we are going to have an answer on harmonisation, when we will have an answer on advertising, on the misinformation that is being made through advertising at the expense of citizens. We want to see if there is a preliminary stage in the process to make a contract. So the citizen is being informed correctly - can anyone say so? - before making a contract with these providers? This is also a crucial issue. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMBROYLIS]] Also, Minister, I would put an issue on the table concerning the so-called 'green energy' and the wealth that will be produced through its exploitation, an extremely important issue - I believe - of interest. Give 10KW to home photovoltaics, subsidising the installation to all rural households and all vulnerable households. It will, in fact, be an extremely beneficial move for a coordinate state that is interested in supporting social cohesion and social defence, a society at a time when national issues, if you want - which may not be directly related to what we are asking for - are open. Social defence is always linked to national defence. And, of course, Mr Minister, all of this at a time when accuracy is being mocked. A man cannot enter a supermarket - because I am talking about what is really interested in the survival of citizens, I will not go to clothes or shoes - and he will come out satisfied because he sees daily price rises. Prices are hovering. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S2-commons.u56	The Minister has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S2-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleagues, I have listened carefully again to your remarks. First of all, once the preliminary clarification procedure has been completed at the teleconferencing meeting referred to before for the five companies invited to submit their comments in writing, of course, you will have information on its results. As far as the issue of vulnerable households is concerned, you have also made a proposal. I said - to link it to my prototype - that 100 million euros are to be made available from the Recovery Fund for 100% of the production of photovoltaics, which will be able to offset electricity exclusively with vulnerable households. It will benefit thirty thousand households and free of charge from the rest of the citizens. The call for the municipalities will be made in the year and with a view to the construction of these photovoltaics by 2022. In the context of support for weak households and taking into account the adverse effects of the pandemic with the new joint Ministerial Decision of the RIS/DR/53061/728/2021 beneficiaries of the single special reconnection grant are the low income households that were disconnected from the network up to 31 December 2020 instead of 30 April 2020 provided for in the previous Joint Ministerial Decision of July. It is estimated that more than a thousand five hundred vulnerable households will benefit from this arrangement, which prove to be unable to pay off the electricity bills. I would like to say to you that in the matter of order and transparency in the energy landscape you have also mentioned, measures must and continue to be taken until the whole process is fair and balanced and open and transparent. In particular, as regards the price comparison tool of the RAE, to which you referred, it is based on a thorough analysis of the data submitted by suppliers in the database. For the price comparison tool, it is proposed, for example, that the tariff fluctuations due to activation of the clause should not exceed 30%. The tool has been developed from the outset in order to capture and compare in the fullest possible way on the basis of the principles of transparency, accessibility of information and independence in information the total cost of the competitive part of the invoices offered. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. The price comparison tool has been successfully made available to the citizens on 9 December 2020 and since then counts twenty-three thousand seven hundred ninety-seven single users, with the daily condition being formed into a hundred and twenty-three visitors. The RAE aims to continuously improve the implementation and control of the data provided by suppliers. In addition, the digital platform for the reception, management and supervision of complaints, addressed to suppliers and operators of electricity and gas respectively, is another important weapon in the well. The Consumers' Counselor, as well as the citizens' consumer organisations EMCDDA and CEPOL, are standing in this effort through the good cooperation that has recently been developed on consumer complaints management issues. Because, indeed, a lot of what you have mentioned in the outlines and focused on does exist in practice. The complaint management tool has therefore been structured in such a way that consumer reports are immediately communicated to the supplier - administrator to address them and that it enables RAE to exploit a variety of statistics and indicators both quantitative and qualitative in order to identify potential failures in the retail energy market to take appropriate measures. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S2-commons.u58	We continue with the first with number 6670/18-5-2021 question of the cycle of petitions - questions, of the MP II Thessaloniki of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Socrates Famelou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The institutional solution for all arbitrary category 5 with building permission". Mr. Famelos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S2-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr President. Good morning, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen. I can only comment on the previous debate, Minister, by saying that if we arrived after a year of accuracy, shamefulness and price manipulation, the government announces that it will do an energy market monitoring tool, then consumers must probably be afraid of your Government rather than be pleased about what you have been discussing before. But I'll come to the point. We tabled a question on 18 May, Mr Tagaras, and it is your responsibility. So on 18 May, we asked you a question. With absolute consistency in the speeches we have made in this House and in an amendment that we have tabled and with a question in September - you probably have all this, you are aware - SYRIZA is trying to help resolve a problem that has to do with the management of arbitrary things in our country. It is strange that you have not responded because we collect from the leaks in the press that you are working on solutions. You chose not to answer in writing. But I must say, Mr President, that the arbitrary issue is a problem created by the Government of New Democracy. It's not an old matter. This problem was created by Mr Hatzidakis' insistence and insistence to close the procedure - if you like - for the arbitrary to be settled, without either the Chamber of Technical Chamber, the opposition or the market, the engineers and the owners. So we see that with absolute consistency we propose solutions and you, with absolute consistency, are creating problems. When this process was closed in October 2020, we had asked you with an amendment to intervene with the Technical Chamber to manage it and create a tool to solve the problem and stop this reproduction of arbitrary problems in Greece. But you, with L.4759 - and I have to say it - this December 2020, you came as a government and created a loophole only for bank real estate. You know, Mr. Tagaras, this is deeply offensive to society. You are not solving the problem with the citizens, but you are solving the problem with the confiscated property of the citizens who are in the banks. And then you come after three months and solve the problem of arbitrary seizures of banks by 2025. So, on the one hand, this shows your certainty of seizures, with the bankruptcy code you have created, and on the other, you close your eyes to the banks to settle bank arbitrary banks, increase the property of banks, which is confiscated citizens, but, on the other, you do not give the citizens this possibility, and on the other, you can't even enter "Enhance", you know that, if this problem is not solved. You have created a new problem, you are not talking about the old problem of arbitrary people. The old problem of arbitrary people was initiated by reforms of the SYRIZA government and we can discuss how you implement them or not. But I ask you about the new problem caused by your own government: What exactly will you do, how will you solve the problem, which I see is that we have in the stationary settlements, in the stadium facilities, in the public and municipal buildings, in the "Security"? All these problems are written under “Made by Mitsotakis”, Mr Tagaras, unfortunately. And we told you. That is why we are once again being critical, because we have told you and tabled the amendment, Mr Tagaras, and I think you should admit that. So I should really like to close the question and thank you, Mr President. So the question is, what are you going to do, on the basis of the proposals that we have put forward? We are not criticising sterilely, we are putting forward proposals, Minister. I'll come back. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S2-commons.u60	Good. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S2-commons.u61	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, we are working on a solution, because there is a matter, to what you referred to before, and you have also made a few remarks focused. And so, there are public buildings and I have received letters from municipalities. One is from your area, from northern Greece - not the only one, there are many - where there are fourteen public buildings, nine are schools, which have no license at all, and it wants to get into the energy upgrade programme and one of the rest of the buildings is a town hall. There is, therefore, a reality that needs further processing and solution. I referred to public buildings. There are, of course, private. There are, however, issues relating to equality and justice. You referred to some outlines before. There are cases, therefore, and I would like to tell you frankly that we are working on the problem. I am well aware of the peculiarities that exist at the moment and the needs, because there is a reality that we all have to manage together. And I am pleased that you, too, agree that there should be a way out and a solution to the outstanding issues. You mentioned before, for example, the possibility of adjusting - because we are always talking about category 5 of the arbitrary, which are the so-called arbitrary burdens, whether those which have no licence at all or those in which the excesses beyond the licence in terms of construction are over 40% on cover or structure or over 20% on maximum allowable height. It is a reality that we must manage, of course, with legal certainty against the peculiarities and decisions of the Council of State. However, we cannot close our eyes to a reality, as you mentioned before, and for all the cases that exist, whether it concerns areas that are sturdy settlements, to the OTAs that have public buildings and want to move on to energy upgrading, or to the cases of stagnation facilities, as you have said. Therefore, for all this in advance, I would like to tell you that we have been working on a solution and we will see you in the autumn more thoroughly about the arrangements for resolving this problem. With these remarks and as time is running out, Mr President, I will be present and continue in my dentistry, supplementing the remarks made by my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S2-commons.u62	Good, Minister. Mr. Femelle, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S2-commons.u63	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, it is a fact that we have taken a step. Mr. Tagaras admitted there's a problem. He did not admit, of course, that he did not disclose - because you indirectly admit it - that this problem was created, because your Government closed down, without scientific documentation, the platform and left category 5 without regulation. Therefore, an unscientific and communicational approach by Mr. Hatzidakis, your Government, has created the problem that you are today recognising. Second, how do we solve this? First of all, Mr Tagaras, I have to tell you that we will not agree to resolve this with the logic of the past, which was also in the recent waste law, for a new arbitrary nature. I say this clearly, Mr President, because it can be misunderstood. We want to solve this and we have said that, recognising the Chamber of Technical Chamber, possibly its role as a technical consultant to produce technical tools. Because we have recently seen that your government, instead of recognising the Chamber of Technical Chambers, in which we are both members, as a body of technical consultants of the state, have done so in order to entrust studies and high-budget studies and on transparency issues. However, we want another Chamber of Deputies. Because, indeed, there is a question in this area, but I would like to tell you that in other areas too - and I say it in advance - you have serious deficits. Firstly, in the last waste law, you have raised the whole matter of spatial planning and made arrangements for setting land conditions on a case-by-case basis. This means "stick dogs, salt" in town planning. Watch it, new arbitrary. Secondly, you have not served the building observatories, Mr Tagaras. You'll have a responsibility, and I'm telling you right now. A new generation of arbitrary men is created because you don't have building observers and you haven't made the recruitments scheduled and enabled by SYRIZA. Thirdly, construction services have not been staffed in the municipalities, so there is still a serious problem there. Fourthly, for arbitrary purposes, the platforms designated by the SYRIZA government do not work, the complaints of the arbitrary are not carried out and, Mr President, the sampling, statistical and ex post audits to be carried out in arbitrary settlements are not carried out, with the result that only your Government, Mr Tagaras, is inhibiting demolition by legislative arrangements. But control of the arbitrary doesn't work. And the last thing you do with the electronic identity, with the suspension of its application, was still a closure of the eye on the market to make new arbitrary. Because here, too, we have to come to an agreement as engineers. When a contract is concluded with an engineer certificate and this certificate is issued in January and the contract is made in August, Mr Tagaras, no one attests to the owner or buyer, the seller or buyer, that arbitrary constructions will not have taken place in the meantime. Therefore, you are creating new arbitrages in the functioning of the market and you are not bringing the regulation that we have proposed to you with an electronic identity so that no further arbitrage is created. So, as I told you, six major interventions of yours are all to be arbitrary and not to be demolished, even in the cavalry zone. A regulation on the continuation of the reforms that we have made has not brought about. That's why we're worried. Because all you replicate is a new generation of arbitrary ones. And if you'll excuse me, but even on the issue of transferring a builder, which we had designed to solve the issue of arbitrary settlements, you raised it and returned to the past, where we couldn't make a transfer rate to solve arbitrary issues, maintaining and protecting traditional settlements and all the rest that the built and natural environment of the country needs. Mr. Tagara, we need more, so tell us. You said you were working on a solution. You didn't tell us about when, you said about autumn. But all the rest that will control the structured environment and the arbitrary, construction observatorys, arbitrary control, complaint platforms, construction services, electronic identity, everything is suspended, everything is delayed. Can you tell us something about that, too? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S2-commons.u64	Good. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S2-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr President. My dear fellow Member, in titles, but you have put many and great titles which are not in response to the time of a question, which is also specific. And we had all these issues that you raised the time and analysed them in the bill that was passed here in plenary last Tuesday, all of what you mentioned. To conclude, first of all, my answer to Category 5. I said that we are working on a solution to all that there are. Because there are. I would like to say to you that this solution is always mentioned - and here the red line does not change - for arbitraryly constructed before 28 July 2011. That doesn't change. First observation. Second point, especially for Category 5, which will be a means exclusively for the electronic identity of the building. In addition, all declaration submissions for Category 5 will be checked. And the money - that is the objective, I describe some of what I said before - is the money, which will be collected from category 5 declarations, to go to cover damages to plots which, due to the polluting commitment and expropriation of land and to be able to open roads and to implement old towns, before 1983, with the 1923 Legislative Decree, as an environmental balance. These are some of the comments for Category 5. As far as the rest is concerned, Mr President, let me say the following: you said again before that we suspended the electronic identity. I told you last Tuesday in plenary. The electronic identity through which the right to attestation for the transfer of real estate has been signed and in force since 1 February and has never been suspended. It is still the main tool in which all procedures will be carried out. What has happened, and when the electronic identity has been signed but also last week, is to give the second alternative, to transfer, to issue attestations on transfers. It is precisely because of the transfers that were many and the changes to the notary, but also in the technical world, that we have given the possibility of extending until 30 September. With regard to electronic identity, as far as the sample check you mentioned before is concerned, I would like to tell you that in order to be able to check, we should have exactly aerial photographs or at least very close to 28 July 2011, so that we can make comparisons with the submissions that have already entered the system. Because the reference time is 28 July 2011. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. That is why we need to obtain some material in order to be able to make comparisons. You know that, because you've been through where I am today. You know, therefore, that this satellite material is necessary for the date of that particular, to make comparisons if, in fact, the injunctions that have been passed by both Law 4178 and Law 4495 are legal or not. That is why we are working on a solution to these maps and checks. For category 5 they won't be samplebooks. All the indictments will be checked, as I mentioned. So we will be all right in terms of both legality and arbitraryness and environmental balance. I want to give you some information on category 5 because I have them. Know that both L.4178 and L.4495, the main use square metres declared in Category 5 are over 50% of the total declared square metres. For auxiliary spaces declared in category 5, more than 45%. And an additional element: Over 62% of the total fines from subordinations and arbitrary declarations relate to Category 5 and squares of Category 5. More than EUR 4 billion are the fines in category 5. I would like to mention these, so that we can all have a picture which is useful but also crucial in the debate that will be opened when the time comes. I am referring to all this because the evidence helps all of us. Again: no new arbitrary. This is not discussed by anyone. Everyone will understand, and as far as the submissions made are concerned, but much more so in finding a solution for Category 5, controls will be complete, in every direction, and there will be no subjection without control and remarks. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S2-commons.u66	Me too, Minister. The second question will be discussed under number 6814-24-5-2021 of the question of the circle of petitions by SYRIZA's MP - Progressive Alliance Mr. Socrates Famelou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Dangerous indifference of the Government for fire protection and underfunding to protect Shahik Sou and the wider area of Thessaloniki". Mr. Femelle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S2-commons.u67	Thank you, Mr President. Taking advantage of the fact that I have a question immediately after my previous question on arbitrary matters, I would like to ask the Minister - if he can - the statistics he has presented to us - together with a very interesting element that we would need, Mr Tagaras, for how arbitrarily the banks have arranged after your arrangements - to present it at some point, whether in Parliament or in publicity, because it is of interest to many people and we want to see exactly what is going on. We're going to the question now about Shah Sue. Although you know I'm particularly sad about what's going on in the Perior Forest of Thessaloniki, I'm going to try to keep tons low, recognizing that you're not the Minister responsible. Mr. Amyras should be here today or Mr. Skrekas. You've come. I accept it. But you may not have all the information about what has happened in Shahik Su during this period of New Democracy rule. For our part, frankly, we are tired of measuring our public interventions and questions. It is - I think - five, Mr President, that we have been asking questions on the same subject for two years now. We will not get tired, of course, because this is a metaphorical expression, to continue to control, because even now the Shah Soo is out of protection. There is a lack of prevention and protection of the residential forest of Thessaloniki, but also of the estates of the neighbouring municipalities, even the municipal forests, and indeed all this, in a town which is literally afflicted by the ideological behaviour of the officials of the New Democracy. It is a town that has no metro, threatens the Byzantine heritage and the ancient ones at the "Venizelos" Station, is threatened by felling the Seiksu, to pass a private regional road project that will be done by PPP and you have spaced - and on your own responsibility - a waste treatment plant in the Koronea Protection Area and you have also granted it to private individuals, while studying with public funding. I'm saying this, so you can understand the context a little. In Shahih Su, however, it has been three months since the start of the anti-missile period. And since last year social actors - for example, the Health Drones Association - come to the media and say that the pruning is accumulating, in the paths, in the ravines the quantities are huge, they have been stacked, they have been dried, they are the best fuel, etc. And when that comes to publicity, why did the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group not ask questions, then they decided to activated unresponsible bodies. In other words, Mr Hardalias came and said: 'I am unresponsible, but I came with the district manager who is also unreserved to resolve the problem without the Ministry of the Environment, without the forestry services, without the municipalities and without the decentralised administration that is responsible'. I'm telling you this, to understand what the problem is, now, created in Thessaloniki. In fact, at this meeting, unfortunately, Mr Tagaras, there was also Mr Amyras. It was, in other words, a meeting and an announcement of works which, of course, are not yet held, which the irresponsible bodies said they were taking the responsibility of the Ministry of the Environment. The fact is, however, that the problem is not solved in the region. We don't want to be bad guys. From a prevention point of view, we ask the five questions so far and we will do more. We're trying to motivate the Ministry of the Environment to do his job. We asked for funding. The Minister came here on 8 March and said: 'Unfortunately, we do not have sufficient resources'. While - Mr President - and I am closing with this - 80,000 euros had been allocated to Thessaloniki for the cleansing of Shah Sou, Mr Hardalias is coming, saying he is unreserved and says: 'In Thessalonica 1.5 million euros'. It's just to wonder, literally.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S2-commons.u68	Good, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S2-commons.u69	So tell us what you intend to do, because we recognise that you are the competent body. We need you to tell us what you're doing to prevent the fire in Shahih Sue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S2-commons.u70	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S2-commons.u71	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, very soon, because I have an answer, dear fellow Member, as far as the submissions you said before were concerned, I would like to say that by the end of May there had been submissions for eighty-five properties acquired through forced auction, a hundred and fifty-nine properties acquired following succession, five properties leased under a leasing contract after the solution, two properties transferred to the Public Real ETA SA and a thousand percent of five real estate areas declared in 2020 in an emergency of civil protection. That's all about the previous question. With regard to the next, which concerns the protection of the area of Shaich Sou, the forest where it is a beautiful oxygen space for Thessaloniki and not only, I would like to tell you from what I have and my knowledge to inform you that, for the second consecutive year, the Ministry of the Environment, on the recommendation of the Forest Protection Directorate, has arranged to implement a reinforced annual forestry protection programme with a charge of regular budget appropriations for the whole country. The necessary ministerial decisions have been published since the end of last year: the establishment of overtime work to serve a forestry protection programme of EUR 2021 and the allocation of appropriations for a total of EUR 5,803.520; the establishment of overtime work to serve a coordination centre for the forest protection of the Directorate-General for Forests and Forestry and the Single Coordinating Centre for Enterprise, with a budget of EUR 66,785 for the year 2021. At the same time, by decision of the Ministry of Finance, the necessary appropriations were transferred to the relevant codes for the budget of the Directorates-General for Forests and Rural Affairs for the implementation of a forestry protection programme of 2021. For the Decentralised Administration of Macedonia - Thrace - Regional Unit of Thessaloniki in Forestry and Forestry were allocated for the implementation of a programme of EUR 178,530 for the Thessaloniki Reservoirs Directorate 43,400 for the Thessaloniki Reservoirs and the Forest Coordination and Inspection Department of Forestry amounting to EUR 65,600. In fact, in the context of attempting to obtain each forest fire prevention plan for the spatial area, the number has been issued - the figures above - a decision by the Minister for the Environment and Energy to update the technical specifications for drawing up fire protection plans and laying down how to calculate the cost of the drafting, as well as amended technical specifications to meet the current requirements, but also to take into account the studies and new technologies which provide useful maps and comply with operational plans of the Firefighting Agency for the prevention and repression of forest and forestry fires. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] A little time, Mr President, I'm going to need it. In order to make the implementation of the anti-nuclear protection projects and actions more effective, I would like to tell you that, in accordance with the updated technical specifications, they need to be checked on their completeness and effectiveness, but also to be evaluated, in order to ensure their functionality. The Directorate for Planning and Forestry Policy of the Ministry of the Environment shall ensure each year for the financial support of forestry services through funding from the CSR projects of the Public Investment Programme or the Forests Special Agency of the Green Fund. Also, the Department of Planning and Forestry Department of the Ministry of the Environment, depending on the possibilities and unreasonable obligations, provides financial assistance by transferring appropriations to the relevant accounts of the decentralised administrations from the Ministry of the Environment's regular budget. For the financial support of the Thessaloniki Forests Directorate of this year, the following funding has been made to date: The amount of EUR 35,000 has been allocated to the Thessaloniki Forests Directorate by the 2020-2021 Public Investment Programme for the project "Public Forests and Forestry Protection". For the opening, maintenance, improvement and insurance of forest roads, the amount of 24,000 was allocated to the Forest of Thessaloniki for the implementation of anti-nuclear protection works and operations, in accordance with approved forestry activities programmes. But I don't want to take any more time. I shall continue in my second question and the third of my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S2-commons.u72	Good. Mr. Femelle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S2-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we have a real problem in front of us, which cannot be easily concealed many times by Parliament's debate with great or fine words. Mr. Hatzidakis, as soon as the New Democracy took over the government came to Shahik Sou along with mayors in the region and announced strong funding to be able to clean up the forest and be safe. We now come after two years and see in a simple and understandable way in society how dangerous the tool of political deception is. When you deceive society and keep lying, society itself and the environment are in danger and we see it in Thessaloniki next to our homes. The financing of the New Democracy never came to Thessaloniki. I made a sum of the sums you said at the beginning of your place. It is for the whole of Macedonia - Thrace 300,000 euros, and Mr Hardalias, who said unauthorized, says 1.500,000, as if we were making an auction here with promises and deception. Projects are not done, though. At the same time, we also feel an injustice, because the same 1 500 000, we heard from Mr Hardalia, giving it to Attica, without knowing whether the Ministry of the Environment is aware. In other words, it is as if you brought in for all Northern Greece 300,000 euros - 290,000 sums, Mr. Tagaras - and Mr. Chardalias has come and made two announcements from 1,500,000 without you knowing it as a Ministry. That's your problem, too. That's finally a problem. But, Mr Tagaras, it's not just concern. We already had two major fires in our question areas. That's why I'm saying I don't want to be an evil maniac. We had a fire inside the Sheich Sou and we had a fire in the Municipality of Oriokastro. And fortunately, there was no intense weather and strong winds that day and the incident was near the regional road and the fire was quickly extinguished. And we call her a hit in the fire department that quickly erased her. But, imagine, when you've left the fuel in Shaich Sou and you haven't coordinated between you services and only make an announcement contest, what would happen in Thessaloniki, what would happen in Oreokastro. That's why you see us nervous. And that is a key problem that your government has created, because we have left you, delivered you, a national strategy on forests which is not being implemented, a public policy on the prevention of fires which is not being implemented, approved funding in the Public Investment Programme, approved recruitment planning, the forestry programme and none of this is being implemented. Even the five thousand workers who worked for sixteen months in their forests stopped, although the Prime Minister said that that year, because there was the program SYRIZA left, we had the fewer fires and I am referring to 2019. You yourself started making meetings - I have written it, Mr Tagaras - on 26 October to strengthen forestry services. You had a meeting with the forests at the time, and I see - notice the Ministry's press releases -11.2, 26.3, 7.6 recruitment announcements. Nisafi now. And all this is not the forestry workers we need, it is a certain period of eight months, and forestists who, of course, need other functions, but you still do not have full-time recruitment for forestry services. There is no funding, no staffing, no coordination, you don't even know what other ministries do. They get responsibilities, works are being carried out without having approved, and there is also a question of transparency. Today - and I'm closing down, Mr. President - two different workshops are working at Shahh Soo. One is forestry services with little funding. I told you 80,000 to 150,000 euros. The other is civil protection with the region that has no competence and is said to have 1.50,000 and no one knows what study does cleansing and management in an area that is not responsible and which is not under control. And there is also a question of transparency and the management of public resources. The same, Mr Tagaras, took place in Schinia and led the administration of Schinia Marathon to resign, because very simply - your institutions say so - the Forest Service and NATURA "we could not discuss with the Civil Protection. And I ask: is the Ministry of the Environment for its own competence, forestry policy and our protection against fires going to do something about it? Is he going to intervene? Is he going to take his responsibility? Otherwise, Mr Tagaras, I am sorry to say this, but if you leave the Ministry out of responsibility, then there is no point in the political administration, because you have given on the substance responsibility for non-transparent management and dangerous, because, as I have said, there has already been fires.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S2-commons.u74	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S2-commons.u75	What else do we have to do? How many questions do we have to ask to protect our place? That's why you see us that way. You must take the responsibility of serving the services and financing, Mr Tagaras, and also check the municipalities where the money went and stop this mess with the Civil Protection and the Region, which are rightly lacking in competence.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S2-commons.u76	All right, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S2-commons.u77	But it needs to be cleared up the field, clean the Shahih Sue now. It's dangerous. It's Thessaloniki's silhouette. We have said this on several occasions. He needs attention. We've been saying that for two years.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S2-commons.u78	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S2-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Comrade, of course, attention needs to be paid to the perimeter forest of Thessaloniki and you, because you come from there, I respect the peculiarity that is above, but to know that we are doing our best to protect the forest as well as the perimeter of Thessaloniki, but also throughout Greece. The fact that there are peculiarities everywhere you know, because you've managed them. The fact that there are deficiencies and we cannot cover everything, and immediately you know that, because you have gone through this position. As far as recruitment is concerned, I told you that, in fact, we were - remembering - and the forest maps and in general the forests have a great deal of work at this entire time to do as well in the clearing of forest maps or forest land, as well as in the protection of forests in cooperation with those who are responsible. And I want to tell you that the Perimeter Forest of Thessaloniki belongs exclusively - you know it - to the management of the Forest of Thessaloniki, the Decentralised Administration of Macedonia - Thrace, which has local competence. Because of the forest’s insult from the bark insect, you know the destruction that existed and had to be felled and removed and the fragmentation of the affected pine. Last year, they were beaten with an emergency drop of about thirty thousand cubic meters of pine. This year, another fifty territorial cubic metres is scheduled to be removed, a decision to exceptionally sprinkle the Forests Directorate of the Thessaloniki Regional Unit. It has already settled - it is what you said before - and the Lower Cross Union with the payment of a rent, in accordance with the provisions of Articles 134, 135 of the 1969 Decree-Law and the Presidential Decree of 1928, which conducts logging work in the Antoniadis Municipality of Sicily and will continue in the areas of Kara Tepe, Perraiv and Panorama. In addition, I would like to inform you that the measures taken for the Sheikh Souche forest already meet to the greatest extent all the statutory requirements, anti-nuclear zones. There are anti-nuclear roads of a total length of seven kilometres and a width of four to eight meters, an anti-nuclear zone of forty-six km and a width of ten to thirty meters. So, by turning the above-mentioned acres, some five hundred acres have been opened, i.e. 5% of the total area of the forest, without the calculation of a number of accessible rural roads within it. There are eight water tanks - I shall end, Mr President - with a total capacity of two and a half thousand cubic metres, which are judged by the experts on a number of occasions, since the above specifications are estimated to require sixty cubic metre tanks per thousand acres for fire-fighting vehicles. Also, there are fifty - six hydrostoms. It is all the ones that have been captured by the installations that are currently in existence and operating in the area that you have referred to. With regard to financing for the cleansing of Sheikh Sou, the Ministry of Planning and Forestry Policy has already issued a sum of EUR 74,400 from the RIS' 3-62021, for the purpose of managing the residues - you have also mentioned. For the Oriokastros forest, owned by the Municipality of Oriokastros, ferry logging has been carried out in accordance with the decision of the Directorate for Forests of Thessaloniki under number 45000.0056/2019. There is also funding allocated under the decision of the Minister for the Environment under No 34000.52-5-2021. The Directorate-General for Forestry in cooperation with the Special Service - Final Structure of the NSRC and Social Affairs has been launched for seven hundred people, of which three hundred geotechnical scientists, two hundred foresters and one hundred fifty administrative officers. It is what you have also referred to in terms of administrative support and cover, so that they can meet the needs, which are many and at this time even longer. At the same time, the possibility of participating in this programme and other similar specialities is being considered. The first breakdown of skills by regional unit and service has been carried out and sent to the Ministry of Labour, in order to proceed with the adoption of administrative measures necessary for the implementation of the programme. As a whole with your comments, it is a very sensitive space and not only the Shahih Sou forest, but also the whole natural environment, with everything means and complements it, which needs all of us's attention, coordination of actions, monitoring, because events always happen. It's not all random. There are others that create side effects. Mr President, thank you for your tolerance. Thank you very much to my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S2-commons.u80	Good. We continue with the first with number 945/14-7-2021 topical question of the first cycle of the MP Chania of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Pavlos Polakis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The building of new schools in Kastelli, the Municipality of Kissamos". The timely question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Education and Religious Affairs Mr. Zoe (Zetta) Makri. Mr. Polakis, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S2-commons.u81	Mr. President, may I speak from here without a mask or come there?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S2-commons.u82	That way with a mask. Why?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S2-commons.u83	Because I can't, I have the diaphragm thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S2-commons.u84	Hey, take the mask down a little, Mr. Polakis. The world isn't broken.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S2-commons.u85	I'm a little back.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S2-commons.u86	In any case, there are no colleagues at least two metres in diameter.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S2-commons.u87	That's what I'm saying. I have the diaphragm problem, and I can't.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S2-commons.u88	You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S2-commons.u89	Minister, on 27-11-2019 there was a seismic vibration of 6.1 degrees of the Richter scale in Kissamos, resulting in damage to the school complex of the area that was building and to the general and professional high school of the area. Following the audit carried out by the competent authorities, it was found that the building was damaged and could not continue to be used. On 8-12-2019 - and not 2020, as was inadvertently written in the written text of the question - the then State Secretary for Education, your predecessor, and MP of the New Democracy in Chania Mr.Digalakis visited the area and after a meeting with the municipality, committed to the following: First, after the process of demolition of the existing school complex in a three-year horizon, the first building will have been built, namely the general high school with funding from the NRP 2014-2020 of the Region of Crete. Secondly, the second building that will be housed by the professional high school will be ready in four years with studies to be carried out by the "CITIRIAN INFRASTRUCES". I've been following it from the first moment and I haven't chosen to start making a fuss at six months, eight months, in one year. However, because I recently visited the region, and because we are heading towards the completion of two years of the earthquake, and despite the fact that we are two months - one and a half months old, now - since the beginning of the new school year 2021-2022, one and a half years after the earthquake and the government's commitments through Mr Digalakis, I have sadly seen that, apart from the delay in placing the prefabricated houses - even less of the needs, since there have been days when the ESDP laboratories were on the outside and in bad weather - there has unfortunately been no other progress. But no more progress! I know that your Ministry's services have completed the veterinary study, for which there are some reactions in relation to the provision of the laboratories that are needed, but that is something that will be solved and I think you will help to solve it. The point is that, as I saw the things that I went there and because I've also done mayor, at these rates, unfortunately the children will do a lesson for many more years there. And what I first ask you - and I will say some other things afterwards - is if you have taken the necessary steps with the relevant ministries for the extraordinary financing of the Municipality of Kissamos or of the CCTP and others, firstly, for the municipality to meet the responsibilities you have given him and without the relevant funds and, secondly, when the total records are to be made, where and to what budgets for the upbuilding of the new complex and the general high school and the professional. I would also like you to tell me an exact timetable - because of Mr Digalakis' timeline, as it turns out, which will be followed in order to solve the problem of the accommodation of the students in Kissamos. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S2-commons.u90	Good. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S2-commons.u91	Thank you very much, Mr President. Now, if Mr. Paulakis needs to take the mask off to hear it, I need to get a reinforced microphone installation! Mr. Comrade, you said you didn't choose to make a fuss earlier. I guess you didn't come today to make a fuss. I am sure that you have come to be informed and I will prove to you with details and dates that it is not what the previous Deputy Minister, Mr Digalakis, has said, but are specific commitments, implemented on specific dates and with the funds to be mentioned. Obviously you understand - you have been running - that I am not going to go into the responsibilities of other bodies responsible for building the new school complex in the Municipality of Kissamos, because you know that care for school accommodation for maintenance projects, repairs of existing teachings, expropriation, acquisition of land, study and construction of new school buildings, as well as improving logistics of primary and secondary schools, is the responsibility of the municipalities and funding comes mainly from the Ministry of Interior. Consisting with the Ministry of Interior, however, for the control, repair, maintenance, building and equipment of the building facilities of our Ministry in accordance with Article 132 of Law 4199/2013, the company has the company "KITIRIAN INFRASTRUCTIONS S.A." through the Public Investment Program. In this case and the services documents show that, following the strong earthquake on 27 November 2019, the school complex housed by the General University High School and the Kissamos Professional High School was found to be inappropriate in the autopsy conducted by the company ‘KITIANS INFRASTRUCTIONS S.A.’ on 29 November 2019. As soon as the autopsy report of the above company was announced, on 5-12-2019 the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs special meeting was held in which the then Deputy Ministers of Education, Mayor of Kissamos, Municipal Counsellors, Chief Executive Officer and General Manager of the Company "KIRIAN INFRASTRUCTIONS S.A." participated, in order to launch appropriate solutions. The meeting decided to demolition the building complex and build a new one. Our Ministry, under its number 18126/24-12-2019 document under "KIRIKES OF INDUSTRIES S.A." has requested the provision of prefabricated rooms in order to house more than two hundred and fifty students and students in these schools. Indeed, in response to CPC No 222/27-12-2019, the tendering documents for the supply, transport and assembly of twenty-seven prefabricated rooms were adopted, twelve for the general uniform high school and fifteen for the professional high school, and on 20-7-2020, with the contractor ‘BIMKA EPE’, the rooms increased to twenty-eight. The total price of the contract was EUR 440,596.08 and the funding was made by the Public Investment Programme. Our Ministry, in collaboration with the company "KITIRIKES INDICATIONS S.A.", with the Municipality of Kissamos and the Region of Crete, completed the process of supplying and installing prefabricated rooms, which were fully operational for students of general and professional high school on 28-8-2020 and before the start of the courses. The cost of the supply, transportation and installation of the rooms was borne by the company "KITIRIKES INDOMES" and the construction of the site was carried out by the Municipality of Kissamos, with the financing of the Region of Crete. Furthermore, it was transferred from the Kyssamos to the Municipality of Kissamos, the school property that housed the general single high school and the professional high school, according to the 45345/7-2021 certificate of relocation of the Kasselios Kissamos Moroccany. The ceremonial programme was also published by the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs, according to the information provided by the Departments of the two schools in the Municipality of Kissamos, pending the establishment by the Municipality of Kissamos of the Adequacy Commission, which, Mr.Mr., will give an opinion on the plot to host the new school structures. Chairman of the committee, as foreseen by the law, was appointed Director of Secondary Education in Chania. The company "KITIRIKES INVESTMENTS S.A." has undertaken the demolition of existing buildings and structures, as well as the transfer of predicaments to the areas authorised by the competent authorities. It is also expected to issue a demolition permit with care of the Municipality of Kissamos in order to initiate the competitive process of awarding the demolition contract by the Kyssamos. Details, Mr President, and more in dentistry. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S2-commons.u92	Good, Minister. Here, Mr Polakis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S2-commons.u93	Minister, no, I'm not here to make a fuss. What you said I know and I say to you: I came today because there is this picture in the houses. And you said yourself, notice the dates of yours: in November 2019 there was the earthquake and the students throughout the year, that is - "happily" has been the coronary, "happily" in introductory forms, has it? - they didn't have any lessons to learn at all. And when they went into class, the image is in the labs that were outside, and that's why students also mobilized. And what I asked you is not what you said to me, I told you that Mr. Digalakis pledged that in three years' time he would be ready. And I ask in 20 months because I see that demolition has not even made progress. Can I tell you two things about demolition? Here I have correspondence - I will also present it - of June, which the CCTB says "to proceed with demolition you must take me out of the building permit required for demolition". Asks the Municipality of Kissamos - because it does not have - from the Municipality of Chania, the metropolitan, unable to issue the permission to demolition and return to him with an estimated fee of 12,000 euros to issue the license and yet this thing has not been done. I tell you, Mrs Macau, for this reason, because I have done not only as Minister, but also as mayor, and I know that none of these jobs are done unless there is political supervision over them. And I know that the Ministry of Education is not responsible for building, but the Ministry of Education is the structure. It is as if you were to say that, because the "CITIRIAN SUBCOMMITTEES S.A." at the Hospital of Lefkada, if we were not at the Ministry of Health above and have them run, it would never end. That's it! Or Santorini, so I don't start saying now. I say to you this: you, as the political leader of this problem, are showing greater heat because, if we go at these paces, that is, if you want four months to consult the services who will give the pre-eminence of the study's pay to issue the demolition permit, they will teach the girls another ten years there in these structures that exist. And one final demand - I say this, 'demand' - is that last year's demand - was correctly included in the Kissamos Professional High School and the specialty of nursing. They did well, and that's how it had to be, approved by you. However, I would like to ask you to equip this section a little. People ask for two things, I submit them, I will give them to you and then you see them, it's not too expensive, don't go out to the beggar people for donations: they need a pretext to train professional high school students who will get the expertise of nursing in cardiopulmonary failure and a folder to see how they carry patients. Costs are low-cost. I know the request must have been given, but it has not been answered and lessons will be started. I hope that we do not have lockdowns and closed schools in the autumn, and that is not necessary. Fund it, 3,000 to 4,000 euros, from the Region Directorate, so that children can learn on real terms and not only by teleconferences and telegraphs. And I repeat for the last time, oversee the process, because you know it - because you have also exercised administration in the Ministry of Health before - nothing goes on by itself in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S2-commons.u94	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S2-commons.u95	I record the last request, Mr Colleague, and I would like to tell you in your agony whether the schools will live, yes, they will work by living, because the vast majority of teachers have been vaccinated too, and that is very positive. Now, as to whether or not our Ministry is competent, of course, I am sure you know and I am sure you are also doing your investigation to see exactly what the Ministry has competence and to what extent we are concerned with and, of course, you are also documenting our legitimate interest, regardless of the lack of pure competence. And, obviously, for all of this and the answers I gave you, I have shown that I could fortify behind the fact that it is not our ministry and refer you to other ministries. However, because of the interest I think that is justified and the anxiety, because it is also about your place - I am a Member, and I understand - it obliges me - without difficulty, to tell you - to explain. I will continue because I want to answer your question and the funds. So I say to you that through technical services we have prepared a censorship programme for the new school complex that will house the General University High School and the Kissamos Professional High School. And I commit, Mr President, to following it with the justified and increased interest after your question. After all, the former Deputy Minister of State, Mr Digalakis, also has the same meaning and interest and knowledge. As Ministry, the Technical Department of Technical Services of our Ministry, sent 2418 and 11-1-2021 a document with observations to the Municipality of Kissamos, the Regional Department of Primary and Secondary Education of Crete, to the Department of Secondary Education of Crete, requesting the preparation of a proposed property plan for the housing needs of the General Universities and Professional School of Kissamos. This document shows that the size, type and number of areas required to cover housing needs have been determined, according to Mr Polakis, with the information provided by the two schools’ directorates and sent to the Ministry by the municipality. The municipality is expected to update the relevant Technical Service of our Ministry for the property status of the land to be built up by the school structures, for which buildings will be maintained and which ones will be set aside. In other words, the municipality's actions are expected to be completed in order to issue the final approved veterinary programme. The CBC, with its 12-5-2021 document, undertook to demolish the old school complex. The demolition will begin as soon as the Municipality of Kissamos publishes the permission to demolition. It's a process under way. It has undertaken the studies of the new school complex, which will proceed in parallel with the demolition process, so that there are no delays. The cost of the studies will be covered by the JTI's public investment budget. According to a document sent by the Municipality of Kissamos to the Ministry of the Interior on 16-7-2021, it is also stated that the necessary appropriations have been provided for the construction of the new school complex, in cooperation with the Region of Crete. In addition, the same document states that the auctioning of demolition by the CCF will be carried out at the municipality’s assessment by the end of this year. According to the official note of the Ministry of Interior sent to our Ministry on 15-7-2021 and related to the financing of the new school complex, the following is stated: ‘The school accommodation and the financing of the country's primary OTAs by the Central Autonomic Resources shall be on the basis of the appropriations entered each year in the State budget voted on by the National Representation’. I omit all the details, which I am sure you know, and I come to the Municipality of Kissamos in Chania, where it is scheduled to be allocated by Central Self-Resources for the year 2021 and to cover the costs of carrying out projects and investment activities the amount of EUR 254.520. A total amount of EUR 37,300 is planned for the repair and maintenance of school buildings. Corresponding amounts had been allocated last year. Further management of such appropriations is on the basis of the decisions of the relevant municipal councils under the supervision of the Ministry and supervision is recommended exclusively for the control of the legality of the acts and disciplinary control. The "Philodimos" programme, of which the call for "II" titled "Construction, maintenance of school buildings and intangible spaces and other actions" by the Ministry of Interior, totalling EUR 50 million, is also part of the call for "Privatization, maintenance of school buildings and intangible areas and other actions". In order to improve the infrastructure of primary and secondary education, the Municipality of Kissamos was integrated with a funding of EUR 65,100. There is also the decision to grant the municipalities of the country under the ‘PHILOPOS II’ programme for the implementation of projects and investment activities within the priority development priorities of the ‘PILOPOS II’ programme. Finally, the Municipality of Kissamos was financed by this programme with the amount of EUR 261,700. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S2-commons.u96	Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-26-S2-commons.u97	With the consent of the House at 16.03 p.m. the sitting is closed for Monday 26 July 2021 at 18.30 p.m., on the subject of this House's work, according to the agenda distributed.
