ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning, we shall begin the sitting. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval of 14-1-2021, the minutes of the FDA meeting were ratified by the Bureau on Thursday 14 January 2021 with regard to the vote on the whole draft law: "Application of draft conventions in the field of defence".]] We enter the SPECIFIC FACILITY ORGANIZATION Debates, at the request of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, in accordance with Rule 142a of the Rules of Procedure, on the subject of informing the House about government policy on the management of the pandemic. Today, at the request of the Prime Minister, who was sent on Friday 8 January 2021 and notified to the Presidents of the opposition parliamentary groups on the same day, as provided for in Rule 142a of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. According to the terms of Article 142a, the announcement is made in person by the Prime Minister, and the duration of the communication may not exceed 10 minutes in protology, five in denology and five in tritology. The Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups may, in person, develop their views on the content of the communication for five minutes for each in the vocabulary and then for three minutes in the second. The Prime Minister, in accordance with paragraph 6 of Article 142a, closes the debate by speaking last. However, for the sake of better organisation of the debate, I propose, in accordance with the unanimous decision of the Conference of Parliamentary Groups of the Opposition, to triple with the required tolerance. So speaking times are as follows: the Prime Minister will have 30 minutes' protology, 15 minutes' dentology and 15 minutes' tritology as well. As regards the speaking time of the Presidents of the opposition parliamentary groups, they will have fifteen minutes for their prototype and nine minutes for their second. In view of the fact that the planned periods have increased and given that there will also be a tolerance, I would ask that this time limit be respected as far as possible. Are we all right in this way of conversation?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u2	The proposal was therefore unanimously accepted. The Prime Minister, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all a good year, with your health and your families. My first presence in Parliament in 2021 could only have at its heart the pandemic, not only because the operation of the 'VATTERY' has already begun for the mass vaccination of the Greek population, for which I will have the opportunity to inform you during this debate much more thoroughly, but also because I believe that this debate is at the same time an opportunity at the beginning of the year to provide valid answers to questions which rightly concern citizens. It is also an opportunity to dissolve myths which, consciously or not, sometimes move and describe with the language of the truth the current situation along with the plan that will safely lead us to tomorrow. I shall therefore begin by presenting a number of elements on where we are today in relation to the management of the pandemic. I would like to emphasise once again at the beginning of the debate that we can disagree in this Chamber on political proposals and, obviously, the opposition parties have every right to make informed criticism of the government. We cannot, however, disagree on the data and the real picture that currently exists in our country and on what has happened over the last ten months, since the beginning of March 2020, when the first case of COVID first appeared in our country -19. So where are we today? According to official ECDC data - you know that these maps are made public every week - this last week, in the fifty-third week that the ECDC records the relevant map, as you can see, all Europe is red and the only two countries that are yellow and also have some green regions are Greece and Finland. So this is the current situation in our country. I'm tabling the relevant map in the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the Government, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] As we had the opportunity to discuss many times in this Chamber, in November we were faced with the second wave of pandemic, a wave which was reflected in a rapid increase in our hospitalized fellow citizens in the hospitals of the National Health System, but also in a very sharp increase in the number of permeated people. This here is the graphical illustration of the epidemic's course at the hospital level. You see that the abrupt increase in hospitals, which was the one that lured law-abiding and increased the number of deaths in our country, began about early November. It was dramatic. It reached the maximum number of hospitalizations near four and a half thousand early in December. It then started a declining quite quickly, so that today in our country we can nurse a thousand six hundred and ninety fellow citizens of COVID in the hospitals of the National Health System. The intrused path is also relevant. We are again seeing the rapid increase in early November, the maximum number that surpassed the six hundred seams - COVID - we are always talking about - at the beginning of December and a de-escalation not as fast as the reduction in hospitals. Today we have three hundred and twenty-eight of our fellow citizens who are intact. In the most macabre statistics, that of our fellow citizens who have lost their lives from COVID -19, our country based on data from yesterday's, cumulative, if we see from the beginning of the pandemic, is in the 20th first place - from the end I mean - and Finland is better. We are the fifth best or least evil country at the level of our five hundred and eighteen fellow citizens per million. This is the measure used in this macabre statistic. Just because we have heard a lot about the number of deaths in our country, let us have a feeling in this Chamber that we have done relatively better at this level than the other European countries. Indeed, especially yesterday Greece was the country with the fewest deaths throughout the European Union and we sincerely hope that this trend will be a trend that will continue. I'm tabling the relevant tables for the minutes. [[At this point the President of the Government, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I would like to repeat that this successful treatment of the second wave of pandemic is due, above all, to the amazing efforts of health doctors, nurses, workers working in the National Health System, who, especially during November and December, in areas which were particularly burdened by COVID, exceeded themselves and faced an unprecedented crisis with professionalism, devotion and humanity. This de-escalation, however, is due to the fact that during Christmas and New Year's Days, with very few exceptions, Greek society showed discipline and complied with the recommendations of experts. If, ladies and gentlemen, something dramatic had happened on Christmas and New Year's Days, where it makes sense to have a natural relaxation and the need to get in touch with the people we love, that would have already appeared in epidemiological data. Fortunately, it seems that we have exceeded the sniper of Christmas and New Year without any special turbulence, and I believe that this has helped the political decision - because it was the political decision - of the government for the first two weeks of January to return to the whole country in a stricter lockdown regime than that introduced by special infectiousists, so that we can absorb any negative effects from the increased social contact that we have had in the days of Christmas. So these are the statistics on the course of the epidemic today. I would like to stress once again that this positive course - and that is the evidence presented at the present time in the Committee on Infectious Substances - does not justify anyone - I repeat, no one! - Absolutely reassurance. We have seen other European countries, which were doing well at other times of this epidemic, a very rapid increase in cases since there was a relaxation, which, as has been demonstrated in retrospectively in these countries, was obviously more aggressive than those which could be tolerated by these countries. Consequently, the next steps in the treatment of pandemic are specified: the maintenance of protection measures, the gradual and careful resumption of the economy - I will return to this issue - always following the recommendations of experts and, of course, the targeted restrictions on outbreaks of the virus and the increase, of course, of vaccination, because vaccination will go on so much as the coronary will disappear. So, today, I would like to answer some questions, which have also been raised by the Opposition, but which the citizens often ask us, trying to make a comprehensive review of our course in these ten months, but also to prescribe our steps for the next period. The first reasonable question is whether there was another way and whether this tactic, which we have followed, suggests - as we are accused of - a lack of plan and passive monitoring of pandemic. Answer me. Not at all. If something we have learned from COVID -19, it is linked to the main feature of human behaviour that is no more than communication. We have also learned that it is manifested every time with different tensions, in different places, at different speeds, different loads. Now, for example, there are European countries that face the problem of British virus mutation, a mutation which does not make the virus more dangerous for those who will become ill, but it certainly makes it more contagious. So these are the constantly changing data, which each government needs - not only Greek - to deal with. If I had to make a ratio, it's like leading to an unknown road at night, on a road with a lot of turns, with many traps. On a road like this sometimes you press gas, sometimes you press brakes, often you change speeds and when you have to turn the wheel. And I think it would be disastrous in such conditions to stay locked in a single course, following the same speed. The very same strategy, the continuous adaptation to changing data, has been followed, with more or less success, by all European countries. That is why we have proceeded to an even more institutionalised decision-making process at the level of the Health Committee, which will meet regularly every Thursday or Friday, where the exact same data will be made available in a way that is strictly comparable every week - a week. The committee will take its decisions, recommend it to the government and announce its decisions on a weekly basis every Friday afternoon. I would like to stress here that the Civil Protection Policy always retains the possibility, if it sees itself at local level - I stress, at local level - of some worrying outbreak of the pandemic, to quickly impose local restrictive measures. I also want to remind you that we have this possibility to an even greater extent, because we have significantly increased the number of tests we have carried out and have a much better opportunity to identify quickly local epidemics, making proper traceability. Because now the absolute number of cases has fallen in relation to the maximum of November and December, we are again allowing Civil Protection to be able to be even more targeted, even more efficiently, even more quickly to make traces and to limit, to seal case cycles before they escape local control. That is why decisions were taken quickly at local level, which I understand that sometimes they can cause a relative discomfort, but always taking into account a number of indicators, are taken into account in consultation between the Civil Protection Committee and the special epidemiological experts. Of course, sometimes it is not easy to explain to our fellow citizens why a seemingly small number of cases can lead to a local lockdown, but there is always one logic behind making these decisions. Ladies and gentlemen, if this is the only way we can follow, then a second question can reasonably arise: are we following him as we should? Have we done all this to us? I often hear - and I imagine it will be repeated today - a criticism that the government has left the National Health System unarmed, that during the summer we did not do what we had to do to strengthen it, knowing that there will be a second wave, and that in any case, we irreversibly neoliberals are not interested in the National Health System and, in some cases, it has been understood - we are consciously allowing it to weaken for the benefit of private interests. Look, I would like to remind you, especially in Civicism, that when we took over the country's rule, we received five hundred fifty-seven intensive care units. I would also like to remind the Cape Verde that every winter - it is not just about four years from 2015 to 2019, it was also an older phenomenon - when we had the seasonal flu we had anticipated in our intensive days, often reaching 30 days. In addition, there are complaints from the health trade unions that I have tabled in a previous debate in the Minutes of the House. Today we have a thousand and ninety-five intensive treatment units available, and we estimate that within the next two months at least one hundred and fifty will be added to the implementation of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation's donation, which equips many regional hospitals with intensive care units. Today we have four hundred and twenty-four empty beds in intensive care units in the National Health System, that is to say we have the security to discuss further relaxation of restrictions and a return to normality of economic and social life, because the main objective we have set together with the Minister for Health is to be able to discuss relaxation of the measures only once the pressure on the National Health System has been significantly reduced. I will submit to the Minutes of the House the statistics on the course of hospitals, the beds of intensive treatment and other useful indicators on the course of the epidemic. I would like to point out in particular one, which is of special importance. That is the positive indicator, that is, the percentage of positive tests on all the tests carried out. Today it's under 3%. It is an indicator that fortunately in the last ten days it has been reduced and we want to see it reduced. And of course, as we increase every day and the tests we do, we have more possibilities to do what epidemiologists always ask for and it is no more than random sampling so that we can know in random population samples if there is any spread of the virus that we have not yet found. Also, I would like to remind you that the application of the testing.gov.gr platform is available to any of our fellow citizens who want free - I stress it, free of charge - to make rapid test in more than three hundred points. He's only got to sign up and he'll be notified. We happen to want to run 12 thousand of these tests a day. And I would ask, because it is unfortunately not - and I would like to stress this - that the citizens' response to these random tests and support for counter-population, which often accuses us of not having enough tests, but I would ask her to help and encourage our fellow citizens, because there is the possibility of writing them on the platform so that we have as many data as possible with the necessary geographical dispersion. We have talked many times about how many young doctors - more than seven thousand - have been added, about how the health system will be strengthened with a thousand four hundred and twenty more doctors and two thousand and fifty nurses with special emphasis on intensive care units, on the interventions made in medical equipment, on the stock that is currently in place, and on the continuous renewal of personal protective equipment and of course on the whole of the 2021 health budget, which is 4.3 billion, the largest item in the last five years. Yes, one would comment on it, but at the same time that all this economy is being tried, and of course I will be the first to know it. We have said from the outset that unnegotiable priority is public health. But in order to be able to finance it, a healthy economy is also needed. From the first moment we have said and acted that no one will be left unprotected by this unpretected adventure that arouses the whole world. We have had EUR 24 billion in the past year, almost 15% of our National Product, and I will not repeat that even now the state is recompensing all those who are forced to work, covering their employers' contributions. I will not say again that nearly seven hundred thousand companies benefited from the rapid financing of the repayable advance. But I will say something that is of particular interest. In this unstable 2020 we have fortunately seen no burden on the overall employment balance. And this relevant bulletin of the Ministry of Labour, which gives overall employment figures in 2020, where there is a positive balance, is perhaps the best proof that this government's policy, which has given above and beyond any other political priority in the protection of jobs, is a policy that so far seems to be at least performing. I'm filing the relevant bulletin in the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the Government, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Of course, we must not forget that, from 1-1 to 2021, the income of many households will start to rise as they will benefit from the abolition of the solidarity levy, from the reduction of employers' contributions and, of course, from all our businesses or fellow citizens affected by the pandemic, they benefit from the transfer of insurance and tax debts and from the suspension of payments on their loans. A question which is often asked and which is also the subject of criticism of the Opposition is to what extent and whether the government is always faithfully following the experts' instructions, because it is true that there are many different voices. The answer is affirmative. In any case, we followed the recommendations of the experts, the scientific committee, the epidemiological committee by letter. Once, as I said, we have taken more stringent measures than those proposed by the experts, and this concerns the first fortnight in January. You may have commented that at some point I addressed Professor Sotiris Tsiodra with his little name, but he was never heard that I ignored him or that I did not seek his advice and advice from experts who have contributed so much to supporting our public policies. But we must not forget that the Scientific Committee is more than thirty specialists in various areas. Everyone has their particular opinions. Not everyone agrees with everyone. They are people who make public speech, most of them. They are also people who are bound by the results of the votes within the committee. So I repeat once again that the final report by the committee, which shows, if there is no unanimity, the majority within the committee, has always been taken into account by the government. And I say that, in order to stop this parafiscality, which, I believe, affects our scientific potential as a whole. Thanks to these people's contribution we have achieved the results we have achieved in dealing with the pandemic. And I would like to remind you that unlike other countries - the United States, Brazil, Spain - there has never been any conflict between political leadership and scientists. In other countries we have a number of examples of scientists who have been released from the position they had taken, because they have not, for some reason, agreed with government choices. This is obviously not the case in our country and it is not going to happen. Ladies and gentlemen, the hope has risen along with 2021. And hope, of course, is no other than the vaccine that will put a definitive end to the coronary nightmare by bringing all that condensates the campaign title that is under way, the "ELDRERIA", and by leading to what her motto says: to regain our lives. Are we going to do this? I'll answer: Yes, it's up to us. Our country, by means of the European Union's analogue pre-market, has today secured the quantities of 15 million 300 000 vaccinations. And I pray to pre-position the leaders of the rest of the parties. If you are willing to criticise this issue, you must first answer whether we have done well and joined the European framework - all European countries have done so - and if we have well exhausted to this point our ability to buy twice - I stress it - number of vaccines we will probably need as a country. We believe that if we manage to inoculate our 8 million fellow citizens, we will be spared again - and the same will happen in all European countries - more than seven million vaccines. So I prejudge your criticism. Tell us: did we have to buy less? Would you like to have bought more? Should we perhaps negotiate bilaterally with other countries when this is explicitly forbidden by the agreement we have signed with the European Union? We did exactly the same thing all European countries did. There may be some criticism in the European Union, to a certain extent justified, because the European Union did not approve the speed adopted by states, such as the United States or Great Britain, the first vaccines, but let us consider the other side of the coin. What would have happened if the European Union did not make this choice? Would the smaller countries be better or worse if each country were to negotiate separately with the large pharmaceutical companies the quantities it wanted? There is no doubt that the European response through organised vaccine markets, despite any delays, despite any difficulties, has been a practical example of European solidarity and should be welcomed. There was no discrimination between countries. The key to the distribution is reserved for the population. There was no discrimination between the countries of the north, the south, the rich or the poor. All countries take the same number of vaccines and take them in the same order. I would like to stress that, from April onwards, when other vaccines have been approved for good, I believe that in our country we will have more vaccines than we need to meet the demand for the moment. Now we're in the backwards. Now we have fewer vaccines than we'd probably need today. The same is obviously true of all European countries. The same applies to other countries in the world, because the production capacity of the plants is given. We must therefore be very strict in the prioritisation and vaccination process. I must tell you that the way we have chosen to move is completely innovative. We have chosen a purely electronic process that abolishes bureaucracy, a process whereby for the first time the state goes the same way to the citizen rather than the reverse. Approximates to him by age or health status, proposing a date of vaccination. The citizen accepts the proposal or changes the appointment. It's all digital. They're done without any suffering. They are made with absolute transparency, for anyone who wishes to have a picture of the course of vaccination in our country. We are already completing the immunity of health in the public and in the private sectors, and in a few days' time the vaccination process will begin first for citizens over eighty-five years and soon thereafter we believe that we can also open up the platform for citizens over eighty, that is to say, in ages between eight and eighty-four years. I think you will agree with me that overall Greek society has accepted this initiative. There are too many messages from our fellow citizens sharing with us on social media stories about their parents or grandparents and their grandparents who have received the message of vaccination. It is a process which so far runs exactly the way we have started and which - I want to stress this - is, every day, subject to the suffering of transparency and accountability. The statistical data on vaccination are available on a daily basis. These are yesterday's data on the relevant platform. Seventy-one thousand of our fellow citizens have already been vaccinated. I submit to the minutes on the relevant graph. [[At this point, the President of the Government, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Of course, so far, we've already booked a hundred twenty-two thousand electronic appointments. These are the elements from the Vaccine Observatory yesterday and Greece is about on the European average about the speed of vaccination, which - I would like to stress once again - is absolutely dependent on the vaccines that we have at our disposal. We want to launch vaccination speeds depending on the available vaccines. Taking into account that all vaccines do not have the same vaccination procedure, taking into account the fact that the supply chain from vaccine to vaccine is different, it is an exercise which is extremely complex, but so far I am very pleased by the way in which the Greek administration and the Interministerial Committee, which has undertaken this process, launches this extremely complex and complex project. Of course, one more Greek innovation is the digital certificate received by each vaccinated person. This is something that I have already proposed to the President of the European Commission, Mrs. Von der Leyen, to take a Community character, to develop into a bridge of communication between Europeans, thereby overcoming restrictions on movement. It is something that, as you can see, is also extremely important for our country ahead of the summer season. We have every reason to be at the forefront of those countries that are struggling to ensure that the transport and movement of European citizens are as unavoidable as possible. And we believe that this vaccination certificate must have a European character so that European countries can share this information in a non-discriminatory manner in the same way. However, I cannot comment on a sixth-sixth-sixth-seven argument, which was heard by the lip of the Chief of Staff of the Opposition. He says: "Why don't you take the patents of vaccines so they can be produced here by Greek companies?" Once again, you have not asked us to take the 'PFIZER' and the 'ASTRAZENECA' statutorily with a law and an article. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] These are funny arguments. They're funny fireworks. Their irrationality was immediately demonstrated by the pharmaceutical industries themselves. Whether they are serious ignorant of what is happening in the international research and business environment or something else, an unexplained naiveness, a disinformation of public opinion. It is, however, essential at these critical times, that the citizen, above all, has responsibility for informing himself, not only by the government, but also by the opposition parties. For it appears that some after the ‘leaf trees’ also discovered ‘beam trees’. However, there are some legitimate concerns about how such a difficult and complex project in Greece will be implemented, as I have said, how we will deal with the problems that will inevitably arise. However, I would like to say again that this exercise of mass vaccination is unprecedented not only for our country, but for the whole of humanity. The last mass vaccinations date back to the '60s and '70s. At that time, they were geographically located. Today we are called within a relatively short period of time, as soon as possible and always taking into account the main parameter, which is the availability of vaccines, to inoculate as many of our fellow citizens as possible. As I said to you, this operation has a lot of levels, the information of the population, the organization of transport, storage, distribution of vaccines, health education, coordination and in Europe, the electronic physical alert of citizens, as I said, without bureaucracy at every point in our country, whether we are talking about Athens or about the most remote island. It is a pretext that there will also be failures and difficulties. The point is to be spotted quickly and solved. And this has been the case so far, when in states with very strong administration, such as Britain and France, vaccines are flying, vaccines are missing and great difficulties are observed in supplying vaccination centres. So far, as I have told you, the problems of adaptation have been relatively small in our own country. Everything is going on according to the design, as I said, first the health workers and the elderly, then the vulnerable groups and gradually all the other categories. I would like to repeat once again that it is very important for all parties, not only by the government, to send out the message that vaccines are both safe and effective. It is safe because we now know that millions of citizens around the world have been vaccinated without side effects. It is also effective, and we already know that. Not only do we know it from the clinical studies that were necessary to approve the vaccines. We also know from the first studies, which have already been carried out in Israel, the country that has managed to move at the most rapid rate of vaccination, where it appears that this proportion of the Israelis that have been vaccinated has contributed significantly to the containment of the epidemic. Of course, as I have said, the possibility of day-to-day vaccination will increase in our country depending on the availability of vaccines. Within the next month, four major vaccination centres in Athens and Thessaloniki will also be put into operation. Only these four vaccination centres will be able to make twenty thousand vaccinations a day. Of course you will add to them all the vaccinations that take place on the other vaccination lines. Within the first quarter of 2021 we estimate that four million six hundred thousand doses of vaccines will reach our country. So it is possible by the end of March to inoculate close to our two million fellow citizens, and that is our objective. Consequently, the national objective is at the beginning of the summer that our population will be safe. It is an objective that is feasible and the national operational vaccination plan is here and is available to everyone. Because I have heard accusations - and Mrs Gennamas - that the government is supposed to have no plan, of course has a plan. You may disagree with our plan, but you can't say we don't have a plan. [[At this point, the President of the Government, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, presents a document on the Minutes, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The next question, which obviously arises, is whether all of this has come about by accident if the defence of COVID and support for the economy were actions which were self-evident. I would like to repeat that the Greek Government has faced several crises in 2020 at the same time, the crisis of immigration, the crisis in our relations with Turkey, the crisis in the pandemic, the crisis in the financial impact of the pandemic. I believe that we have faced these challenges with the greatest efficiency possible, with proper design and, of course, always with support and assistance from society and we have brought results. And it is unfair, it is very unfair for our country to be presented by the opposition for reasons of micro-groups an image which does not respond to reality. Because with the help of society and with the help of the citizens we have managed to achieve these results. And I will insist today on the need to go unified and collated. And I will respond to the argument which he has heard, that it is alleged that invoking individual responsibility is an alibi to governmental weaknesses. I do not think there is anyone in this Chamber who does not agree that it is impossible to achieve this great collective national effort, which we have taken, if everyone does not consider and do what is appropriate to them. That is why I prefer to talk about individual responsibility rather than responsibility, because responsibility can sometimes also involve the meaning of blame. We know very well that the individual attitude is the sister of freedom, and as only democracy has at its heart each individual, his own discipline, his own compliance is part of the culture. That is why we insist and insist now, as we enter a new phase and hope that we can apply the experts' suggestions for a gradual relaxation of restrictive measures, that this concept of individual responsibility is now more important than ever. Obviously, individual responsibility does not cancel the need for overall planning and obviously individual responsibility cannot be an excuse for any government failures, which I, first with courage, are prepared to recognise and correct. However, it remains to me very much as an impression that the anti-population parties are insisting that they do not show it at all. Everyone has a responsibility and we know very well that there are few atomic behaviours which are enough to do great damage and make us take restrictive measures, which unfortunately concern all of us, of course, which - let us not be fooled - also have an important economic footprint. Every month lockdown costs the Greek economy more than 3 billion. That is why perhaps the time has come, as I have said and since we are told by experts, to take careful note - I stress - of the risk of the gradual reopening of the economy, of alleviating the retail trade by means of the sales method outside the store or organised in a way that is used. There is no doubt at all, because you were also quick to deceive this in a previous debate that we had in early December, that click away, tradition outside, worked and significantly relieved the retail trade. Obviously and cannot be a substitute for the full opening of the market. But for a series of branches it worked. It worked less for some other branches, such as clothing and footwear. And all of this, of course, will also be taken into account and, in consultation with experts, we will take our decisions on how to gradually open up economic activity. In any case, the government is ready, if there is a positive recommendation, to implement this policy on Monday, always in compliance with the protection measures, with increased controls, so that the health forces' economy becomes the healthy power of the economy. In fact, the fine for offenders, for those consciously insisting on breaking the measures, will increase from EUR 300 to EUR 500 so that we can rekindle the economy without endangering health with a third wave of pandemic. I want to be perfectly clear. Each opening of economic activity poses the risk of an increase in cases. As long as this increase in cases is reasoned and controlled, and as long as the health system does not put pressure on, it's something we can withstand. These are the difficult balances we need to find. So since experts consider that this risk is reasoned, and since they suggest that we have to go to a gradual opening-up of the retail trade, we are ready to implement this on Monday. Today, however, I would like to announce two more measures to alleviate society and households. I would like to repeat that during and over the next few months, as the effects of pandemic on economic activity will still be felt, there will be ongoing government communications to support the real economy. Today I announce - firstly - that the coverage of the professional rent by 80% extends for another month, for February. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Secondly, that they are extended and will continue to be paid normally for a further two months all the unemployment benefits, which have expired. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So all of this has changed a lot in our lives. One thing which unfortunately remains unchanged is the criticism we hear from the opposition, which systematically insists on saying exactly the opposite to what the government does. I do not have much hope that this will change with today's debate. I must point out, however, in advance that this continuing refusal of reality conflicts with what the Greek society is asking for, which is unity and, of course, creative proposals. I'm always ready and I'll be ready today to listen and adopt - why not? - any creative, documented, substantial and practicable proposal tabled by the Opposition. Since February 26, the day the first case was recorded, I have spoken to the House fourteen times, six of which were exclusively concerned with government initiatives for the management of the health crisis, and I believe that I and the Ministry of Health have shown that we are open to proposals, ideas, thoughts on how we can deal with pandemic more effectively. I hope and hope that such proposals will be heard in today's debate so that we do not see again in the news releases the well-known titles accompanying each parliamentary debate at the level of Heads of State or Government, which I think are inappropriate even to the seriousness and criticalness of the moments, but also to the demands of citizens from all political parties. I close, ladies and gentlemen, with an interesting historical regression to a brilliant but relatively unknown page of another national effort, in 1913, when Greek weapons were struggling to make their homeland twice. On May 11, 1913, then, on eve of the Second Balkan War, cholera hit the Greek army, which was then stationed in Thessaloniki. Eleftherios Venizelos entrusts Professor Konstantinos Savvas on Friday an antidote and he along with Archaerios Panagiotis Manosos and five recruited students of medicine deliver a month after the first Greek anti-Billian vaccine, which will be administered to a hundred fifty thousand soldiers and three hundred and fifty thousand inhabitants of Macedonia, ending an epidemic that accepted the neighbouring countries and creating a milestone, the first mass vaccination in our country against cholera. So today we are faced with a similar double national challenge, the disastrous health threat, both at the same time and with the stifling of aggressive behaviour against our sovereign rights. So we will fight with the same courage and then, the unity, inventivity and responsibility of the Greeks will lead us again to victory and freedom. Thank you very much, and I wish you a good year.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u4	We will now call on Mr Alexis Tsipras, Chief of Staff and Chairman of the Parliamentary Group Radical Left Coalition - Progressive Alliance for his own speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that the country has been living under the heavy shadow of the pandemic for ten months. Thousands of fellow citizens suffer, fear, fight. They're losing thousands of lives just like that. We've reached a very high number of losses. It is an extremely difficult situation that requires all of us, primarily from the government and the state mechanism, but also from the opposition, parties, all citizens, a new consciousness of collectiveness, a new consciousness of solidarity. Of course, too often in political confrontation there are excesses, hypocrisy, a surplus of communication, and even propaganda. You must recognise, contrary to what you said earlier, Mr Mitsotakis, that the attitude of opposition - all parties - from the outset of this unprecedented process was not characterised by these practices that often accompany political controversy. I want to be quite clear to the Members and the Greek people who are watching us. I am deeply convinced that our time does not lift up such controversy and is indeed inferior to the circumstances of anyone who in such a situation behaves and conducts himself in terms of self-interest of any kind, political or economic. However, that we have often not seen as the main feature of the parties and Members of Parliament, representatives of the opposition, we have seen it from representatives of the government. As far as I am concerned, I want to make it clear, because I have heard your introduction and the closure of your position. I firmly believe that sincereness, devotion without party and small-party accounts in trying to save as many human lives as possible, it must be the priority of all of us today. The duty not to let society sink into fear and insecurity must today be the first task for all of us. Symbolism with every public instrument with those who give the battle to the first line of life and health for our fellow humans, doctors and nurses first of all must be a firm concern for all of us. However, in order to be effective with regard to society, we must learn from mistakes and omissions and see the reality that we are living today. We need to learn from today and yesterday, because tomorrow continues to be difficult and society and the country must stand up. Scientists - not us - all over the world agree that not only are we done with the pandemic, but that the difficult things are ahead of us and that a third, perhaps worse, pandemic wave is expected. The point is, however, that we do not say that to fear or fear, but to prepare and prepare the country, society, the National Health System, ourselves. And we will not prepare or prepare if the same mistakes, the same omissions, the same leeways that led to the massive tragedy in November and December, we will continue them if we accept the unacceptable fact that pandemic is a situation that we cannot deal with, if we are indulging with macabre comparisons of the dead and drama rates by country, as you did a moment ago, if we cultivate the reassurance that with the vaccine, in the summer that comes, with the help of God, evil will pass. The evil won't pass if we don't do something to get it through. If the government that has the main responsibility for what is happening and what comes does not realize how much it cost lives the ideas that guide it, the arrogance of power that distinguishes it, its refusal to listen, to discuss, to share the views of society, doctors, counterpopulation and those who fight life, we are not going better. A hump point of your prototype was how successful the second wave was. Is this your basic finding, after four and a half thousand of our fellow citizens who died November and December? And you come here to tell us how successful the second wave was, and what good did you do with it? You said it, I didn't say it. Did you say it out of text? Did you miss it? If this is the case and we are starting with such a central difference of perception of reality, we cannot find a common basis. I will try, ladies and gentlemen, no matter how difficult it is, because it is not easy, not to allow my place today the justified anger that I feel not as head of the Opposition, but as a citizen, not to allow the justified anger that I feel to affect the tons of my criticism at such a difficult time. I therefore resort to, instead of qualifying, to the reasonable questions I believe, Mr Mitsotakis, that you should have answered them already. However, I would like to bring it back to political dialogue. Would not human lives have been saved if decisive measures had been taken in time to strengthen the National Health System, so that they could effectively deal with the second wave of pandemic? Would the dimensions of social tragedy not have been limited, had there been minimum measures for public transport, for workplaces, for workplaces where large numbers of workers are congested, for structures hosting thousands of people often vulnerable and vulnerable? Would it not have been necessary for every difficult measure of society's confidence if the government were not to be held up by the Almighty's syndrome, if you did not behave publicly and provokedly with unforgivable negligentness and negligence, as you yourself said, if, instead of strengthening the unity of society, you have not constantly carried out police persecutions against citizens and young people, if you and your ministers were not constantly showing to the citizen the guilty of allegedly circumventing the measures, which you, too, were violating? Would the wave of death not have been dealt with much more effectively, if massive tests had been carried out in the population in time, free of charge for those in the need to diagnose whether or not they had the virus, had there been a clear and valid mapping of the spread of the virus in the community, had travel and tourism measures been taken? You know, I could take the step from this point of view to constantly presenting such a 'if'. What do you have to say about Thessaloniki, northern Greece, the situation where it came out of control despite the warnings, the Attica of the working blocks and the conflicting statements of your executives? But I want to end up where I have to. All of these 'if' things are tormented today by every citizen, not by me speaking from this Step, the government and you, Mr Mitsotakis, are going beyond them without answering them, but by a huge - in my view - lack of consciousness of the dramatic situation, lack of consciousness of the responsibilities of the state, lack of consciousness of the mistakes made, lack of consciousness of the need for social solidarity at this difficult time. And finally, lack of consciousness about the need not to provoke directly at this time, with a blurred dance of millions and legislative interventions of anti-grass inspiration in the midst of the pandemic. I have tabled a proposal for a preliminary debate in Parliament on these issues in the context of the functioning of democracy. I hope, Mr President, that my request will be accepted. But I'll try to be even more specific. I don't know if you have it in your mind, but we're almost two and a half months in a tough overall lockdown. In these months, we have recorded dramatic losses. Four and a half thousand families mourn their people, tens of thousands of people mourn father, mother, grandmother, grandparent. What does the government responsible do? Instead of doing everything in order to protect the life and health of citizens, to shield the National Health System, to put barriers to pandemic, it is consumed in poor and macabre statistics. Mr. Mitsotakis, I want to say one more thing I've said before. The dead aren't statistics. They're human. The pain of the families who have lost their people is not going to be released today if you tell them that the numbers are positive in absolute terms compared to other countries. They are people who, if not all of them, could be with us today if you had strengthened our hospitals with permanent staff. It's not only the beds in the intensive care units, but also the people who will be serving these units. You keep talking about a thousand hundred and fifty beds. I would like to ask myself: How can we have reached 100% of our capacity with six hundred fellow citizens? How is that possible? [[Noise in the Chamber]] You'll answer them later. It was over six hundred fifty in intensive beds from other diseases. How is that possible?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u6	Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u7	I'll talk to you about that. You will be able to answer. So I was saying that if you had strengthened the hospitals, if you had targeted the protection of vulnerable groups, if citizens were not stacked every day in public transport, if we had a clear picture of the epidemiological situation in time with massive and reliable tests, we could have a much better development in pandemic. That is why I say you have serious responsibilities. They are very serious and they become even more serious, because you are showing that you do not mean to understand these responsibilities. You do not mean to move away from this trap of complacentness and self-sufficientness in which you and your Government have fallen and in which you are increasingly immersed by those who want to keep you dependent on communication protection. The worst thing a Prime Minister can do is live in a glass blocked by reality. You do not mean to understand that to correct things, you must admit errors and omissions. No 'We did well and we succeeded in the second wave'. But for you, I don't think there is any such tactic. You haven't made mistakes. There are responsibilities of all others except yours. Of course, the same applies to the economy. Since March we have called on you to take steps to prevent the recession and we have reached the end of 2020 to record the deepest recession across Europe, according to your own figures. Lockdown's temporary lockdowns are now permanent for hundreds of thousands of businesses that will fail to reboot. Hundreds of thousands of workers are trapped living with the 534 euros. And you say the balance remains. When these support measures are stopped, we can see what the balance will be. Shoppers across the country hear you one day announcing possible opening up of the market, the other bundle in everything. The same refluxes, of course, concern the course of vaccination. Every day another plan. How much will we receive, when will we receive them, where will citizens be vaccinated, when will we have a sufficient percentage of vaccinated to achieve the desired rate of immunity in the community? They are crucial questions and you do not answer them. It's all in bulk, it's all in luck. The only thing that was not at random was how early you organized the vaccination of your own officials and their families, who if we did not intervene in time, would continue until today at an exceptional rate. Mr. Mitsotakis, have you also wondered why you are constantly enlisting the concept of individual responsibility? Why are you constantly talking about citizens who are not disciplined, as you say, in the continuous lockdown? Why is your basic work - there you have good coordination, is it true - is monitoring and imposing fines and why - if that is the case - are not disciplined? Because they don't trust you, Mr. Mitsotakis. They don't trust you in your government. Because citizens see, know, and understand that you're out of control. Because citizens see and understand that you are going blind, seeing and doing. And most importantly, you are now tired of citizens and every day you get tired of them more and more. You know, the citizen would be willing to accept mistakes if there was a genuine attempt to correct them. But when they are not even recognized how to try to correct them? The citizen would be willing to hear your excuses if he could see that you too are listening to him. He would be willing to endure if he could see that his patience does not become a state of opportunity for laws threatening his home, his work, his freedom, his freedoms, his own life. He would be willing to accept undisputedly the cost of fighting if he did not see that, apart from not admitting mistakes and constantly refreshing reality, you are already taking advantage of these difficult times to prepare perhaps even more difficult in the next period. And the worst thing I'll tell you is what they see now, even those who voted for you in the previous elections. You were elected with your main project to build a state of accomplishment. Where's this state at last? Where's the last state? Here we see an unprecedented state incompetence. You'll call me too much. You'll call me unfair. Good. So let's go in particular. Mr Mitsotakis on 5 November when the second lockdown started you said that three weeks lockdown is enough and from December we will be free again. On November 17, your Government spokesman then assured that schools will not stay closed until the Theophanes. One day later he announced that the focus would be opened before Christmas. What finally happened two months later? They only opened the city hall last Monday and the focus is still closed. Here's your statements. [[At this point the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the abovementioned statements, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] The second example. On the morning of 2 January, Mr Georgiadis said that the possibility - now on 2 January, early in the year - of opening the retail trade in zones has not been excluded. At noon on the same day Mr Petsas announced an extension of the general lockdown. [[At this point the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the abovementioned statements, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Next example. We have come to the point of intervening a prosecutor for a statement by your Minister, Mr. Georgiadis. Strangely enough, he's not here today. I don't see him in the government headquarters. Did you forbid him? He revealed in the case of the celebration of Agios Dimitrios in Thessaloniki: "Then some infectiousists told us that there should be quarantine in Thessaloniki before the celebration of Agios Dimitrios". Listen, listen: "We from respect for tradition, orthodox and faith, did not quarantine before St. Dimitrios' feast." You have misguided your Minister. But we don't have to go far. Mr Hardalias himself - to say so - said that Mr. Djitzkostas, from 22 October, has recommended it, knowing clearly the situation firsthand. What did you show up to tell us a month and a half later, you yourself? I read in word: "I have retrospectively said that they could not close Northern Greece, Thessaloniki one week earlier, but you know then there were no requests from anyone to close earlier." From no one! Who are you kidding? Why don't you admit everyone's mistakes? When, Mr Mitsotakis, one of you goes against the other, when one of your Ministers is taking the other, when the lie is attacked to cover the inability, then how do you want the citizen to trust you? You didn't do anything for a whole summer. You did not take timely measures for northern Greece when needed. You do not actually strengthen the National Health System and the country reached the end of November - early December to record a sad first in deaths per 100 000 population and four out of five, that is 80%, according to reports that are - let me say - pro-government media, lost outside intensive care units. I submit the post from 'THE VIMA'. [[At this point, the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] And you came here today to tell us about the successful management of the second wave, to declare content on the debris. But the "FINANCIAL TIMES" came to reveal that Greece exceeded the average of the European Union and the United States in deaths per 100 000 people at the time of the peak of the second wave. [[At this point, the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] "BLOOMBERG" ranked Greece in the fiftieth place between fifty and three countries, based on the resilience of the pandemic. Fifty-three-three-three-three. [[At this point, the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] We don't. They are referred to as 'FINANCIAL TIMES', 'BLOOMBERG' for the critical difficult times that we have been through - I repeat - late November, early December. And that's why? For despite the fact that the most stringent measures have been taken in relation to all the other countries, Greece has recorded a sad first death in late November, with the death rate of our fellow people being formed at 6.3%. It may have something to do with the number of tests that were not sufficient, because with a few tests and non-target tests you don't have the full dimension of the cases. So it is likely that this number of deaths refers to a real number of cases, much larger than the one constantly recorded. But, Mr Mitsotakis, I would like to tell you frankly: after all that has happened, do you think that your presence here today in this House was a presence of a responsible Prime Minister, which you are saying to us: 'We have fallen and we have no responsibility as government for the tragedy that the country is experiencing, and we have no responsibility for the success of this country? Is the attitude of a responsible Prime Minister? Or are you just irresponsible? I believe that more and more citizens have been persuaded of the last time. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Whatever he says, look out! - the coordinate propaganda, I fear you are not the Prime Minister who has no responsibility, but the irresponsible Prime Minister, so irresponsible that you can behave in the most contemptuous way to doctors and nurses who raise the greatest weight of battle. First they were your hypocritical applause, then they were the tears of your Minister, but in practice you left them and kept leaving them alone, completely alone against the pandemic. You left them with unpaid overtimes, even made them a sworn administrative exam, ESA, at "Savvas", because people were ill. And lately, your Undersecretary, Mr. Contozamanis, also blamed them for the hundreds of the dead for the past few months. But all of this, I think it wasn't random. The irresponsibility, indifference - I dare say - is also linked to specific values, ideas and strategies that characterize you and define your unreserved interest in some social elites and your indifference to some creative social groups. As you are treating the people of the National Health System, because for years you have been and continue to be against public health and whoever supports and serves it. Your resignation and you personally, Mr Mitsotakis, have fired, slandered, threatened, systematically degraded public space people and especially officials, civil servants, teachers and people in public health. That's the truth! So it is no surprise that you have chosen at a time of pandemic - because it was a political choice - not to make a permanent intake of doctors and nurses, but only to announce for those subsidiary doctors who are in ICUs - they do not exceed two hundred throughout Greece - a promise of permanentization. And, of course, it is no coincidence that you have brought in a budget for 2021 which provides for a reduction in health expenditure of almost EUR 600 million. Why? Because for you the National Health System was, unfortunately, and remains a barber, because your faith is private health and the partnership with public hospitals in private hospitals, it is private insurance, it is speculation, and in this critical area of health and life, I will say. I'll say it one more time. I think it is an accident that your prolongation, which has these years of public health, has been dealing with today in this critical pandemic situation, the ideological wars of the ERR and of public health being in the country's heels at this critical moment. Ladies and gentlemen, it takes time and coolness to list the unbearable slightness and refluxes of the government and Prime Minister in this difficult period. Time and cooling, because at such times political restraint is not just virtue. There is a need for social and, if necessary, survival. I would like to repeat that the scientific community, as well as the majority of the members of the Committee of Experts from the Ministry of Health, have been complaining that the data are not sufficient. I mean, the evidence they have to make to make decisions, the epidemiological picture. When the double recording system scandal was revealed, your answer, Mr Mitsotakis, was to scorn it. Instead of answering, you declared annoyed with the debate on double books and some seem to have despised your annoyance and rushed to redundancies of reporters. That's what happened. Anyone who refuses your "myth" simply by recording reality wanting to be sent to "the outside." You have intolerance to criticism. But you have intolerance to the truth. But the problem remains. Just yesterday it was announced that EGE recorded authorities in Genaris, in the past few days, thirty-four cases in Kozani that were recorded in November and asked for the District Director of Western Macedonia - it is not SYRIZA the man - to come the prosecutor to intervene. Scientists denounce the incomplete picture on which they are invited to draw conclusions and propose measures. And you, with no sense of responsibility, with human lives at stake, say everything is going well. You refuse to listen to the experts' criticism. Do you refuse to make public for the last two months that we have been asking for - why, really? - the minutes of the Committee on Infectious Substances. You have even refused the proposal to go to a board of political leaders with the participation of members of the Committee of Experts. Or is that exactly why you refused it now? Because I asked for the committee's representatives to be present and you would come before us in the face of your contradictions. Or is that why you refuse to convene the Committee on Institutional Affairs and Transparency - two months ago, we have asked - in the presence of the Minister and representatives of the infectious? Why don't you call her? What are you afraid of? I have, in fact, put before the President of the Republic officially, aware of the moments, the proposal - because it is the Prime Minister's responsibility to convene the Council - to share the experts' information, to exchange views and even to codecision on what is going to happen. What did you answer? That such a Council would be an initiative behind 'closing doors'. That is what you said: 'Behind 'closing doors'. Is it true, Mr Mitsotakis, that you have made the decisions that you have made, that we have made, that we have made our life course critical, that you take them with 'open doors'?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u8	In the House, here.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u9	The House, here, is very well aware that it is an area of political controversy and that is how it should be. When someone calls for consultation and you respond to 'controversy in the House', you show your intentions. You don't have to come to this Step hypocritically and talk about unity. Is it not, then, true that you have been indifferent in many cases and even today are you unaware of the expert opinion? Is it not true that you are indifferent and unreasonable for the opinion of the people of the National Health System and their organisations? Is it not true that you are indifferent to the opinion of the people of the market and their economic organizations? Ignore everyone! You decide on your own and implement, not only behind closed doors, but also with closed ears and closed eyes, I would say in some cases. You don't listen to anyone and you don't want - and that's the worst - to see the results of your incompetence, incompetence, your ideas. But when one insists on the mistake, when he refuses, listens, see, talk, understand, then insistence on wrong is worse than wrong itself. So I ask again: why does the country continue to provide every citizen who needs the molecular test free of charge? You have launched a process open to rapid test. Haven't you been told by any of the infectious agents, any of the statisticists that this is a big mistake? First of all, through this process, while in December we carried out massive molecular tests, today molecular tests have been reduced and they are carried out rapid, which do not have such a large degree of clarity and reliability in relation to molecular tests. And has no one told you that it is the wrong way to go targeted where you have to go, because you have evidence to check in closed structures, in large workplaces where we have contracted cases, in Central Macedonia, in West Macedonia, in Attica, inviting citizens to enter an online process where there will probably be those who are concerned and therefore likely to take protection measures against the virus? You bring results that have nothing to do with the real picture in this way. Why do we continue to walk blindly? Why do you continue to make decisions that are not based on any serious epidemiological surveillance? In this way we make exactly the same mistakes you made three months ago and drove to the second lockdown. Also, why did primary schools open up, just as they closed? You spent hours asking us: “To open or not open? What is your position?’ But the thing is not whether they open or don't open. We all want to open up. How they're going to open up is the issue. They opened up with classes of more than twenty-five students, as they closed, without provision for massively free compulsory tests for all teachers, without the search for additional rooms, either within the school units or in the wider community as indicated by the EGE's guidelines for the opening of schools of August 31. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] They opened without the recruitment of the necessary cleaning personnel, without accelerating the ten thousand permanent appointments to the education guaranteed by our government, without any protocol if students and teachers are suffering. Also, why does this same and irreparable state of crowding of buses, public transport? So hard is it to dilute routes, find solutions? I know, Mr. Mitsotakis' head is swinging, because he had told us from this Step that the buses aren't stuck. It doesn't fit into buses. It's scientifically documented. Why, too, are factories, crafts, large production units operating without care from the state? And especially for these areas, I believe you have a responsibility that you have left this situation. And then your ministers also show up swinging the finger on people who at risk of their lives go every morning for the cut. We said it again from this Step. A worker is asked to give from his pocket 60 euros for the test, if he feels unwell, and after 15 days of quarantine work a month unpaid overtime. This is what your government has established, Mr Mitsotakis, through Mr Brutsi, who has taken him down from the cabinet and is now sitting at the seat of the parliamentary representative. That's what she instituted. Do you understand that? What, then, can this man who feels an unwillingness? Why would he plead? He's sitting in. And when he's asymptomatic, but an entity, he's conspiring in public transport to go to his work, where you say he's not stuck. Now we're going to the critical vaccination issue. I wish the half-energy that you spent to tell us that only with the vaccine - I stress it, just! - we will end this adventure, give it to the organization of a serious and reliable plan for the vaccination of the population. Because it's a very critical story to be vaccinated. In September, Mr Kikilias said that we would have seven hundred thousand vaccines by December, and in November he announced the creation of a thousand eighteen vaccination centres for the vaccination of two million and seventeen thousand citizens every month. I am tabling the relevant motion for a resolution on the Minutes. [[At this point the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] In December, therefore, he stated that about two million per month will be vaccinated. On the 8th of January, however, you, Mr Mitsotakis, told us that eight thousand per day will eventually be vaccinated and that is an achievement. And the next day, Mr. Chardalias told us that we will eventually reach the great achievement of the seventeen and seventeen thousand vaccines a day. [[At this point, the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] At the beginning of this week, the Government representative announces that four hundred thousand citizens will be vaccinated by the end of January and you in your recent television interview said that by March, in the end, we will go to the two million citizens, which means by simply dividing to the seventy-five days by the end of March, that they will be on average twenty-six thousand vaccinations a day. But let us see what the situation is today. Instead of a thousand eighteen vaccination centres will be put into operation next week only a hundred forty-four with the first consequence that the elderly over eighty-five years will be invited by Monday to go to hospitals to be vaccinated with very serious danger of illness. I am not going to talk about the vulnerabilities that have been done, because mistakes are made. You said what good they are all telling you, we also get indignation messages from citizens calling them to take Lesvos to Lesvos to vacate old people, or from mistakes made, who send people from Evia to Karpathos. That's what's going on. I think you can fix it. The big picture what it is. By January 11, some fifty thousand citizens had been vaccinated on the basis of the statement made by the Secretary-General of Health, i.e. on average five thousand a day. With simple mathematics, that is to say, in order to reach the objective you set for January, daily vaccinations should have been tripled and to reach the goal you set for March, they should have been five times doubled. With everything I have shown a moment ago about the image shown by this government, who can trust that this is possible? I wish you could make it. Here we will be helping you manage. But these, Mr. Mitsotakis, are out of the question. I would therefore expect you to come out and give a clear picture and a clear commitment to the Greek people and finally move seriously. Greece has today vaccinated, according to your own figures, 0.62% of the population, when a neighbouring country outside the European Union with three million less people, Israel, has vaccinated 22% of the total population. 0.62% - look out! - has been vaccinated for the first time. We're not talking about immunity. We will have this immunity when we are vaccinated for the second time. [[Noise in the Chamber]] And because I see that many of you are unconscious when you hear Israel and want to be compared only to European countries, to see and to what level our country is. Countries such as Estonia, Slovenia, Lithuania, Croatia have vaccinated more than twice as much against Greece. You mentioned all the vaccines we have bought. In fact, the European Union has moved in this direction and I will say afterwards. However, it is not a question of getting vaccinated in time at this time. It's just time. Time is a basic parameter in our function, because every time it passes, every day some people pass in danger. For any vaccination we could have secured, but we don't have it, a human life is being compromised. And I would say the least paradoxical, not to say provocative, with this poor number on the pace of vaccination to celebrate and it is challenging to say that 'whoever is raped, stumbling' to justify this desperately low number of vaccinations. I repeat, Mr Mitsotakis, that we do not have the luxury of time when dozens of our fellow citizens are losing their lives unjustly. Every day it's valuable, because every day we can save people, especially now that a very difficult winter quarter comes. But this requires strategy, it requires a plan, it requires organisation, it requires speed. I'm afraid none of this has your ultimate state. You have rushed a moment ago to discredit my proposal for a pan-European initiative in order to ensure that the European Union has the patents for vaccines and, as you usually do, to distort the message of what I have said. However, you are also extremely unreliable here to denounce a proposal that has been made for many months by the distinguished professor, Mr Mosialos, and which you yourself signed. I am tabling a document in the Minutes. [[At this point the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] You had publicly defended this proposal by saying: 'In response to this challenge, the European governments could reward vaccine manufacturers by buying their patents at reasonable prices'. The European governments! And what is interesting is that once the Members of the New Democracy, Mr. Mitsotakis, applauded Mr. Mitsotakis...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u10	None of you!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u11	If you applauded me, Mr. Plori, you'd be in trouble, I imagine. I don't know if you were vaccinated, but Mr. Velopoulos would come out and say it's the vaccine! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] So once you have applauded. And you know who she was? When defending private pharmaceutical companies you sarcastically sarcastically sarcastically said that by a law and an article you will state the "PFIZER". Well, no, Mr Mitsotakis, we are not asking you to make the PFIZER state. However, we are asking for what you have supported, the vaccine must come into the ownership of European societies because it is essentially a collective public good. The European Union has also supported with large sums the research needed to develop these vaccines from private companies, so it has the right and the obligation to make more dynamic moves. And today there are already dozens of vaccine production units in Europe and the rest of the world. The head of the World Health Organisation said "if not everyone is healthy..." - referring to the world population - "... no one will be safe, because we are living at a time of globalisation where the movements are lasting." So this initiative to increase the production of vaccines, if the patent was secured, is crucial and we have taken it at European level. You just wrote an article. I don't know if you realised and what you're signing. I would like to remind you of the phrase of the man who discovered the first vaccine against polio, which scourged the United States of America by the middle of the last century, by Jonas Solk. So they asked Jonas Solk who owns the vaccine patent, and he replied: “In humans it belongs. There's no patent. How can you pave the sun?' [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] But, Mr Mitsotakis, your position today reveals your obsession with every public good and you know this is a brake on the collective effort of our societies to put an end to the nightmare of pandemic. Unfortunately, you know, when the public goods that ultimately judge life are traded, we end up in cases such as that of Germany - you have not mentioned - which hastened to buy for its own account, outside the European agreement, thirty million more doses of vaccine than the original agreement with the European Union. I am not a fan of this practice, no fan of vaccinationist nationalism. However, there can be no double standards in the European Union. And do not rush to accuse us of things that, from what your legislative interventions show, you yourself have recognised as possible. For you, who, just now, were tying the logic of the bilateral agreements here before you were tying up Germany's practice, on 23 December 2020 - if I'm not mistaken - with your amendment here in Parliament, you have been here to ensure that you can negotiate directly during the process with a producer of the Ministry of Health with a view to the urgent need to protect public health. To say to your amendment it says that the Ministry of Health can supply the vaccines either through the single support mechanism or through a direct commission after the direct negotiation process with a pharmaceutical producer. You have voted for these and you are constantly in contradiction even with what you are voting on. I shall put forward a document on the Minutes. [[At this point the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Ladies and gentlemen, it was a great deal - and it is - the scope of the debate that we are holding today and I know that a very large part is also the debate on the progress of the economy. If at any time with the good end being dominant the agony and insecurity of whether we are going to live, the anxiety and insecurity of how we are going to live will prevail. But I understand, Mr President, that I have already spoken a lot of time on my first speech, so I would like to address these issues in detail when I am going to have a second speech. I am coming down from this Step by saying that it is critical in the next few hours, days, weeks, months, months, to work to stabilise this situation, to work to have a sense of stability and security for Greek citizens. It is critical, however, to let the arrogance happen, to leave the logic of infallibility and to see reality in the face. We have reached our conclusions on the way you govern. And this tragedy in which we have been driven is partly due to your ideological obsessions and part of the inability shown by your state. But we are now proposing human life as a priority. And if with a burning reason we burn your attitude, it is, Mr Mitsotakis, to change your strategy. As long as pandemic lasts, it is our priority to protect human life. Our conclusions, however, on the need for another government progressively, which can give impetus to the Greek society, which can give prospects for a strong and human state, for a solidarity society that will get us out of this crisis, are data and we will fight for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u12	It is now Mrs Fotini Gennamata, President of the Parliamentary Group of Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u13	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, about a year ago the global medical community and nursing staff are fighting to tackle the pandemic and to limit the losses which, unfortunately, are not being reduced, but are showing in many countries to increase, between them and our country, which has been mourning thousands of human lives in recent months. And that is the burden and the historical responsibilities of those who take decisions, those who govern them, which the last people would expect from us, the forces of the opposition, would be easy and inexperienced populism. Prime Minister, if you wish, try to follow the voices of the opposition, at least in Parliament, because I have often heard you say other things than the Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u14	I'm listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u15	And finally, today we have the opportunity to exchange arguments outside the bubble of the mediator monologue imposed by the Prime Minister and the Government of New Democracy, so that the view of the rest of the parties can finally be heard and to reach every house and every citizen in the ears that there is another view. So today I intend to remind the citizens that we are not all the same and we are not all saying the same thing. There is no so-called successful government on the one hand and an allegedly irresponsible opposition on the other. There are those who suit you, Prime Minister, with demagogy. There are those who unwitting you with their proposals, such as us in the Change Movement, which we emit from the frequency of responsibility, the documented criticism and the concrete proposals. There is the Change Movement that almost weekly throws light on the errors, on the opacity, but also on your ruffles. We shed light on everything that freezes the world's hope, Prime Minister, when every television show of yours again follows the reorganization and handshake in dealing with the pandemic. When we all know that measures are not for everyone, as your so-called God-fearing ministers admit. When we don't know which Minister of State to believe about vaccines, about schools, about opening stores. Depending on what suits your Government every time, you hide either behind specialists and contagiouss or behind my "upside actions" Prime Minister. When behind each piece of legislation we rinse "crowds", with ruffles, with services, with monkey contests. When the well-advertised "excellence" and evaluation for the public ends up in an AEP and restores the unforgettable "blue interview". When you have the police to solve the problems of universities, problems that will obviously have to be solved, but you do so in a way that does not have a precedent in a European country and it is certain that it will prove ineffective. In short, Prime Minister, every day that passes and the Greek people tighten teeth from insecurity, from anger accumulated, the more prone you become in the traditional practices and attitudes of the Right. Soon you'll need binoculars to see the Center, the covetum for you. Ladies and gentlemen, this battle with pandemic will all win it together or we will all lose it together. Let's finally understand it. Society, state and political system are in the same camp, and the enemy to us is one, the coronary. We in the Change Movement do not invest politically in destruction and ruins. We have always been a force of social responsibility, social sensitivity and justice, a force of political responsibility. In order to be useful these hours, however, we must be honest before everything is done. No cover, no silence. All in the light. Because every mistake, every omission, every day of delay, every one of the many fronts - back that has become, cost and cost human lives. Unfortunately, the government remembered our drafted proposals when we arrived at no further, usually too late and with great inadequacies in their implementation. Mr Mitsotakis, self-criticism and the recognition of errors means bravery and that is what the Greek people expect from you today, because at the same time this shows both wisdom and decision so that the same mistakes are not repeated. You do not have the courage to recognize what the Greek people see anymore. With difficulty a few months ago from this Step in tritology you sang excuses, but your own ministers disprove you. Their statements on how we arrived at the dramatic developments in Thessaloniki are recent. Especially since May, you have moved without a plan, without serious treatments, only in his logic "seeing and doing". It may not sound nice to you, it may bother you to repeat it. You almost confirmed me today, talking about the turns, the brakes, the gazettes that you are treading on a case-by-case basis. Although there's a risk that you won't press them properly and make some mistakes than we've seen throughout this course so far, so we'll find ourselves without preparation in front of the second wave of the pandemic. You did not make the most of our positive attitude. You thought it was enough to speak on the Pecha list and cheers for some media to convince citizens. You're wrong. Unfortunately, you'll understand, once again, slowly. Citizens now have knowledge, they have memory and they have begun to draw their conclusions on what is going on in the country. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have two major challenges ahead of us, to which we are called upon to respond. The first concerns the safe opening up, the relaunching of economic and social activities, obviously by ensuring that a third worst wave of the pandemic is avoided. The second is the issue of early vaccination of the population, but in terms of transparency and efficiency. We will then present our proposals in detail. However, I would first like to make an assessment of the critical points of the previous period which have had a very significant impact on developments. Mr Mitsotakis, on 22 March, I proposed that a first-line network should be developed to deal with the pandemic. What did this proposal say in a few words? He was thinking of making use of the primary health care that with mobile workshops would have the potential with specific home visit protocols, as well as an appointment to the structures of primary health care, in order to prevent disease progress and to decongested hospitals. In words you adopted it. In practice you still haven't been able to put this process into operation. Since the beginning of April, on 6 April, we have insisted on mass tests being carried out in order to detect the epidemiological burden of each region and to be able to take appropriate measures, by exploiting universities and research centres. We have proposed the prescribing of the EOPY tests and their award, so that the private workshops are not bewildered. The government initially refused. He was obliged by developments to accept our proposal after six months. Still, you haven't moved on to the lab certification for the tests. And, of course, all this time, citizens have been forced either to overload or not to do the preventive tests, so that we do not have a full picture of the situation in each region. From the first moment, we have pointed out the need to increase intensive care units and to provide timely staff with qualified staff. The government has again remained in unadulterated words about a new ERC, which we have never seen. And we couldn't, because you just don't believe it. Fortunately, the House accepted our proposal and financed the fifty beds of intensive care units in the "Salvation". And you have only just understood in November what is going on and you have come up with night-time amendments to proclaim the staffing of new intensive care units, since in the meantime you have weakened other critical activities of the public hospitals. Everything else, for thousands of recruitments, is words of the air. We asked you to tell us where all these thousands of recruitments you made went. You never presented us. Some may be working from your office or from your homes. We're still waiting for the evidence. From the first moment, we suggested that you include the private health sector in the design. You did not, leaving the National Health System and its people to deal with situations really off limits. You also had to say that a few weeks ago, without doing so. Since the beginning of May, we have stressed the need for measures to ensure the safe opening of tourism. You confined yourself to the well-known Santorini show, without any preparation, without specific protocols in good time, without any controls on the northern land border on the roads in northern Greece, with the well-known negative results. And then you moved your finger to the young people, switching your responsibilities to them. As of 6 May, we have proposed the mandatory use of a closed-air mask and tabled specific proposals to avoid crowding in public transport. In words, you promised everything. In practice, only in November did you proceed with the invitations to recruit new staff and increase vehicles in the means of transport. From June 10, we warned at our special event, in the presence of Elias Mosilos, of the second wave that was coming. Not only did you hear us, Prime Minister, but - as the ministers themselves have revealed - you believed, inadmissiblely wrongly, that this would come much later and you did not mind, putting public health directly at risk. From mid-August we warned you about the risk of assembling in schools, and we suggested concrete measures to deal with it, with fifteen students in class, with the recruitment of teachers, with additional municipal areas and, of course, with rotating teaching. I see now that all the proposals we have been drafted are adopted in the public debate by more and more parties. That is positive, but at least let them be adopted by the government in practice, let us see better days. What did you do? You let the classes operate with twenty - five - thirty students and your announcements for free masks evolved in the mask fiasco - giants. In early October, we pointed out the risks to the development of the pandemic in northern Greece. You, as has been revealed, also despite the experts' warnings, as your officials say, have preferred not to interfere in the celebration of St Dimitrios, obviously for voting reasons. We have proposed very specific measures to support the hospitals in northern Greece, to recruit new staff, to permanentize the subsidiary throughout Greece, to avoid conspiracy in university spaces and churches. We have proposed that you recognise the struggle and supply of the people of the National Health System. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] The point is not only to stay on the applause, the balconies and within Parliament. With your responsibility, Prime Minister, at last take the decision to incorporate them into the heavy and unhealthy. You have no reason to do this. Now there is the relevant positive suggestion from the committee responsible. Anything else will only be hypocritical on your part. There is no need for other examples. I would like to make these proposals as a whole. It is only about pandemic health, so that it does not create confusion and that your staff can more easily process them - we hope this time - and adopt them. [[At this point the President of the Movement of Change Mr. Fotini (Phot) Gennamata presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] So we expect - and I insist - that you do not repeat, Prime Minister, the same mistakes because they lead to new dangers for citizens. Do not go on with this logic 'it is not my fault, it is always the fault of others'. And it is not the doctors' fault, as your Minister tried to say, because the patients were late enough to come to a health system that had not been prepared, had not been strengthened and suffocated, despite the superhuman efforts of health. It's not the people of the National Health System because you left hospitals subordinated, personnel helpless, with great shortages at the time of the crisis, in drugs and oxygen. What happened in hospitals in the region, particularly Drama and Kilkis, is not allowed to be repeated. And finally, someone has to take that responsibility for what happened! And it's not the people of the system. We ask and demand that the truth be finally told to the citizens and with a clear commitment that at least in health matters - I repeat - the same mistakes must not be repeated. Ladies and gentlemen, I will be the last to be interested in the statements by government officials who empty each other. I could just say: 'Your problem'. However, health and public information issues for the pandemic do not allow for such phenomena. His policy'seeing and doing' has these side effects. When you don't have a plan, you're exposed. You're exposing yourself when you make decisions even by ignoring the experts' proposals, because they don't suit the purpose and the party needs. The old ageing, the backwards, the unsuccessful commitments are many. I will only remind you of some of them. On 4 November, the Government Representative disputed that it would become Lockdown in Attica. He fell completely inside, Prime Minister. Three days later, on November 7th, the new lockdown was decided. On 10 November Mr Pierracakis "empted" the Government Representative who said that the citizens sent a million sms for sport, saying "We do not look at the categories of messages and there is no such design in the system". On 24 November Mr Petsas 'emptied' the Minister for Development, saying: 'No celebrations for the dead'. On 27 November Mrs Kerameos said that the schools would be opened before the celebrations. How vindicated, Prime Minister, we all know. On 15 December, the infectiousists "empty" Mr. Petsa for his statements about nine people at the holiday tables. On December 31, the huge alalum is created with the show of the government officials being vaccinated, and the Deputy spokesperson "empties" the representative, saying that symbolism ended with the vaccination of political leaders. And now what will you do to those who took them out of the government, will they also have to do the second dose? And you've been left with the new uncovered ones. Even there was no elementary design in it. On 2 January Mr Petsas announces on his own when the schools will be opened without a decision being taken by the Committee of Experts meeting on 4 January to decide. Shortly before Mr. Petsa's announcements, Mr. Georgiadis said that "the market will be opened by clicking in shop" and Mr. Petsas comes in the same day and announces the end of the click away and then Mr. Georgiadis says "We knew it, but we could not say it earlier." On January 4th, Mr. Petsas says that "Whoever returns from Dubai enters quarantine," but travelers themselves disprove him. It is obvious that this is not a picture of an elementaryly serious government. I am tabling all these inconsistencies from the statements made by the officials, because they deserve to remain in the Minutes of the House. [[At this point, the President of the Movement of Change, Mr Fotini (Phot) Gennamas, presents for the minutes the statements referred to above, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] Ladies and gentlemen, I now come to the issues concerning the next steps. I repeat before the National Representation and the Greek people the proposals which we had long tabled for the safe opening. It is not possible to continue with horizontal measures that stifle the economy and society and intensify the deadlocks. There is always the threat of the third wave, of course, and we can prevent it, but also drastically restrict it. But there must finally be a plan, not only brake, gas and turn. Which way are we going? Where do we want to go? What way are we going to choose, Prime Minister? "Watching and doing" or "Watch-Out"? Because so far we have seen a huge risk ahead of us for Lockdown accordion, which will be absolutely catastrophic. We therefore insist on the gradual opening-up by brave measures to support trade in retailers, the focus, the workers, the businesses affected by the crisis. In my dentistry, I shall refer more to economic data. There are areas with low epidemiological burdens and these are those that can first open with many and repeated tests to monitor the development of the pandemic. And movements from other areas will only be permitted with a certificate of vaccination or a recent negative test. At the same time, however, the crowding of schools, the means of transport, the churches which cannot be exempted from any measures proposed by experts must be addressed at the same time. Unfortunately, your recent choices and the celebration of the Lights, but also with the opening of the schools that have been reopened, as they were before they closed, show that you continue exactly the same logic that you have carved out all these months. Three further necessary interventions: support for the National Health System. The pressure continues, fortunately to a lesser extent, but the risks are here, they are struggling. We therefore need to complete the recruitments that have been announced and to permanentise subsidiary staff. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] We cannot afford to lose this experienced human potential from the health system. And there must be readiness for real integration of the private sector as well in planning, where appropriate, not only in words and announcements. Finally, I find it incomprehensible that the government's continued refusal - and I have told you before and I will not be tired of repeating it - of the integration of the people of the ERC into heavy and unhealthy. Secondly, care to restore what the coronary has created complications to their health. There are many, Prime Minister, these people. A new crisis is gradually taking place in the crisis. A concrete plan and rehabilitation structures are needed in each region of the country, with a multidisciplinary team and training of the primary people, to guide those post-COVID symptomology patients properly. Thirdly, open epidemiological data, our great misery. Finally, it is inconceivable that there is no complete, reliable case register and access to epidemiological data. There are complaints from the polypathic Kozani - we call it days -, which is from October in lockdown, that cases of fifteen and twenty days late are reported, cases detected by private laboratories and that data were not present either in EGE or in local authorities. Do you know what that means in practice? This means, in practice, that people who were ill did not have the right instructions were never tracked down in their contacts and that the decisions taken today in Kozani are being made with fictitious elements and decisions are made on restrictions, which have painful consequences for the economy and society, with elements of the previous fortnight and 20 days. Who is responsible for this, Prime Minister, citizens, self-government, opposition or your government? Will you finally assume your responsibilities? We heard you put Argolida in a hard lockdown. The evidence posted by the EGE on Argolda speaks of three and four cases. You obviously have some other evidence, which we do not see, because I imagine someone didn't wake up one day and went crazy and said, "I'll put Argolida in a hard lockdown." It's based on people. But who's got the evidence? If he had it, he'd have posted it. So there's somewhere else. Where? Civil protection? Who's got them? And I really feel and appreciate that the members of the committee, the infectious people, do not have this information fully. So they cannot say where the tests need to be carried out, where targeted measures need to be taken. Can you assure, Prime Minister, today the Greek people from this Step forward that there is a united, reliable record of cases, which is accessible from the scientific community? We expect answers and commitments. I come to the critical issue of vaccination. Net words: The goal must be a unique, rapid, transparent, effective vaccination of the whole population. It is only in this way that the necessary immunity will be created to restore economic and social life. We have said clearly from the first moment 'yes' to vaccination, 'yes' and to the certificate, which is required after it, and in English in order to facilitate travel. And I am pleased that you have adopted this proposal in good time, which we tabled to you on 8 January, and it seems that our country is taking the lead in this way. I am tabling the proposal that we tabled from 8 January for the certificate to be used at European level for travel. [[At this point the President of the Movement of Change Mr. Fotini (Phot) Gennamata presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It is our firm position that the European Union ought to be united, with common policies, to face up to its pandemic and its consequences. Ideas about bilateral negotiation and burglary of European solidarity are the most conservative and backwards that can be heard. And we must claim to prevent any attempt to negotiate bilaterally. If we allow this, then we will have accepted the inequality in the heart of the European Union, professing that each Member State is left to its fate and to its own against the laws of an inconsistent free market. Having identified Germany's attempt to conclude bilateral agreements with private pharmaceutical companies, I would like to make it clear that this undermines the principles and values of Europe that we see. I am also wondering why you have not today condemned this attitude in Germany, as do your night amendments which we did not have to legitimise, because it is not so serious that we cannot discuss them openly and in good time in this Chamber. The European Union has ensured the number of vaccines needed for the Member States. And what we all need to see from now on is how the countries are going to push the European Commission and the European Commission to ensure that there are no delays in delivery schedules. And that's what you need to do as a priority, Mr. Mitsotakis, to push on your side too, so that this nightmare can be over faster. Critical next issue is where the vaccination will eventually take place. Two months now the government is advertising on the channels that there will be a thousand eighteen vaccination centres. Most centres knew and what it would be and had started and procedures to prepare. There were plays. The Prime Minister came out and talked about eight thousand vaccinations a day. Then he uploaded the number to twenty thousand vaccinations. Then, yesterday, the official Circular of the Ministry came out and we were surprised to see that it was excluded from the vaccination process, the primary health care that primarily makes vaccinations in every country. In fact, workers from health centres who had been designated as vaccination centres and had begun to take instructions on how to function, moved by the Ministry’s suggestion and vaccinated in hospitals. Listen to it first! Vaccines are therefore organised only by hospitals. This, in our opinion, is a very big mistake, because, first of all, the possibilities are limited, because hospital staff will be more involved - perhaps even - with vaccination, and we should also deal with COVID -19 because we are not finished, but also with the other diseases that have not been stopped in Greece. Or should all other incidents be channelled from now on only in the private sector? On the other hand, it poses a problem especially with elderly people, because most hospitals are said to be far from home. They should have prepared the vaccination centres they were talking about, should have hired staff if the primary staff are not enough, so that vaccination can be effective, quickly, to protect the health of the citizens without harming them. We have not seen this until today. And, of course, there had to be transparency. We need works, Prime Minister. Create vaccination centers, taking advantage of primary health care. And if it isn't enough, get private doctors and nurses on time. At the same time, finally create Observatorys. The ETA doesn't have his rays all over the country. It is therefore necessary, at primary level in each region, to have Observations which will provide evidence of the immunity of the population, either after vaccination, or those who have been ill, to have a clear picture of what is happening in each region and in each county. And, of course, the famous sample checks must also be carried out. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] I come to the issue of the rate of vaccination at issue. We have so far received forty-five thousand vaccines, and according to yesterday's figures, we have done seventy thousand sixty-eight vaccinations. By the end of the month, we will receive another hundred and eighty thousand from PFIZER. At the moment, however, we have a low rate of vaccination, which ultimately works at the expense of both citizens and the economy. And I don't understand why. Vaccines are also in combination with the safe opening, if you followed it as an option, they could give great breath to many regions of the country, oxygen, and to society and the economy. So why don't you inoculate at a faster rate? I am tabling the relevant tables showing that we are extremely low compared to the other European countries in the rate of vaccination, while we have vaccines. [[At this point the President of the Movement of Change Mr. Fotini (Phot) Gennamata presents for the minutes the tables mentioned above, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] Finally, we insist that we need transparency in the vaccination series, real-time information on the implementation of the programme by category and vaccination centre, with numbers and a detailed description of the vulnerable population groups that will be vaccinated as a priority. These are our proposals, take advantage of them, but above all - I repeat for the third time - not other errors at the expense of the health of the citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, with pandemic history has not been braked. Changing speed. We're living and living cosmogenic changes. Already our lives are changing in everyday life, in our relationships. Nothing will stay the same. We are in the cyclone of a sweeping change that concerns the whole planet, every country, every society, every party, every collectiveness, every citizen. That is why we need a plan and actions at all levels. The vaccine alone is not enough for long-hauled freedom. It's our heavy artillery, but infantry, soldiers are a well-organised and effective national health system with primary care on the front line. I won't get tired of repeating it. I will not stop defending the National Health System which is the guarantor of public health. It can't and can't stand our society staying locked in its homes for much longer. Any delay or frugality costs. Each Lockdown brings a heavy bill, costs lost jobs, 'lucker', cuts. It costs unpaid bills, obligations all of us expect in the corner together in a few months. It costs public funds, public administration, bureaucracy, delays, unpaid pensions, lost compensation for farmers. It costs human relations, children, families, domestic violence. It costs democracy, freedoms, the rights of all of us, but in particular the weakest and most vulnerable. That is why we are here to support and guarantee, with our struggle, every citizen's request to come out of this trial, without further losses and to get his life back safely. That is why we are honoured, the contract of our movement with Greek society, to make it stronger, to lift it higher, not to hurt it, not to scare it, not to divide it, not to hold it hostage, but to release it and give it back justly to the sacrifices it has made so far, so that this country can withstand. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] This is the task of progressive governance. This is the demand that is silenced in the minds and hearts of the citizens who are starting to look for this much-conscious new change. And we're here, the Change Movement, to respond. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u16	I would ask that the Stepma be settled in order for the President of the Parliamentary Group of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Dimitris Koutsoubas, to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, the same debate on the same subject, the management of the pandemic, we did two months ago. What was the new government invoked to support its political choices, which continue to have tragic consequences for our people? The mass vaccination of the population as a whole is a long way from being mass and cannot cover up the recurring and enormous responsibilities of your government. Two months after the spread of the pandemic continues while you have already started talking about a third wave without well - having had fun the second one. "Greece has done better than other European countries", this is the permanent government argument in the criticism we are making of your refusal to proceed to the shielding of the public health system, mass tests of the population, to take necessary measures to protect the workplace, public transport, schools and schools. You may say that to others in this House who, even in the words, question this system that regains profits, which extremists the European Union and its anti-Fraud commitments. So don't say this to us because the positions and proposals of the JRC do not fall within these narrow limits, in these so-called tolerances of the capitalist economy. They conflict with the growth of the profits of the few, focusing on the real needs of the many. That's why we're not looking to find out which part of the capitalist world there are the fewest losses in human lives that the public health system has not sealed, where doctors are not forced to make choices for the ICU. Because everywhere from Britain, with a health system which was considered a model and which was even warmly displayed by the British state, to Sweden of the much-advertised Scandinavian model, the situation is tragic. Everywhere, from Germany to Spain and Portugal to the so-called progressive government, which has recently been resurrected to Greece as a shaved food, peoples in all countries are experiencing the effects of trade policy, the privatisation of the health sector, which you all have here, without exceptions, followed. All European governments manage the pandemic with compass, not the needs of their peoples who are being tried hard, but mainly the needs of their business groups. The same applies to your own government in all sectors. Your criterion in the management of the pandemic is not the people's real needs, which is why you have not gone into massive hirings of health, in many new ICUs, on a real order of the private health sector, which they themselves have been telling you since the beginning of this adventure. On the contrary, you are presenting a virtual reality, but it cannot hide the shortcomings or the fact that the public health system has turned into a system of disease, with what this means to the overall health needs of the people. And when you can't justify unjustified, when you're cornering, you're putting the blame elsewhere. That's exactly what you did to justify, for example, the number of coronary patients who end up outside the ICU. You have targeted doctors who have now given the battle to difficult conditions that you and the previous ones have created with your criminal policy. Your criterion is not the protection of workers, because otherwise at least you would have carried out mass controls on workplaces, you would have imposed health and safety measures on these areas that have proved to have been converted into over-transmission sites. Not to mention mass tests in the population, which you are not doing, a measure that you should have implemented from the first moment. Your criterion, too, is not the needs of students, their families and teachers. You opened the primary and kindergartens on the same terms as you booked them. Unless you tell us the only scientific directive was open windows. At the same time, universities remain closed for over a year, high school and high school for months. The position of students is in their schools, in their courses, of students in their schools, with all protection measures. He's already ringed the bell for the consequences, not just the editors, to the new children. Your entire premura was to bring in a new system of examination for universities and install police forces of repression within them. To the closed universities! But that's who you are. Your criteria for managing the pandemic are not scientific, they are political, economic, business, and we did not expect the government's confession by the mouth of the Minister of Development that, as a government, you ignored suggestions for quarantine enforcement before the celebration of Saint Dimitrios in Thessaloniki, to draw this conclusion I told you before. In fact, when a few days later you also banned the Polytechnic events, even though you knew they would be done with all the health measures and despite the fact that there was no decision of the Committee of Experts. Your criterion is not the real needs of the workers. Proof that, within the pandemic, you are preparing to go on overturning the century with regard to labour, labour, trade union rights and, of course, your criterion is the needs of the self-employed, the small and medium-sized enterprises, which you say are also on their side. You probably have confused the billions and other gifts you share with various business groups, with the small amounts that you give the thousands of self-employed, who are currently on the edge of the disaster. You advertise the payback program as the main weapon to support professionals. You know, however, that most of them were not included in the first three phases of the measure, and now, in the fourth and fifth phases which you did not intend to extend a little bit of the criteria, the sums given are not in fact enough to cover the obligations of a small company, let alone their families. In fact, you excluded the professionals from the special purpose allowance, which you granted them in the spring. Are you not conscious of the volume of problems, especially where restrictive measures are of a general nature? Why do you think the professionals have risen up in West Attica, Kozani and elsewhere? Why are commercial and catering professionals protesting? Clearly tell what happens with their debts. In the debts of the previous crisis, which, of course, result from your own tax policy, new debts have been added and added continuously, since the suspensions you have voted for have an end date. What are you gonna do? What does your government's work say? You'll tell me, rhetoric the question. In the midst of a pandemic, you rushed to legislate a new Banking Code, preparing massive seizures and auctions, committing even part of the income to keep banks from losing any euros. You're talking about a second chance. In practice, however, you condemn them to an eternal hostage. What is still left of this policy for small and medium-sized enterprises? Stay the Scottish shower of continuous restrictive measures, open it - close it, with click away and click in shop. In other words, you are constantly resorting to a policy which you are implementing for the whole of the pandemic. The normality that you promise the self-employed, the professionals is an empty letter, not only because the pandemic still has a long way to go, but also because the uncertainties and the crisis in the economy of the country and internationally will not be overcome. It will turn out to be a bad road for thousands of small businesses and your wishes and statements of sympathy again are fraudulent. That is why we demand here and now that you take substantial support measures, especially for those categories that are really in need. To those with an annual income of less than EUR 12 000, a monthly allowance now capable of surviving. To legislate here and now bravely deletion of debts, interest, surcharges, and 30% of debt to taxi and banks. The Communist Party of Greece will present these days a similar proposal for a law on this. Your criterion is not the needs of the people, even on the issue of vaccination, so the programme is moving very slowly, with insufficient vaccination centres and a limited number of vaccines. Because that is what the European Union's conventions are imposing on pharmaceutical companies. The decisions taken by governments and within the European Union are again taken on political and entrepreneurial criteria rather than on scientific criteria for the protection of public health. How else can it be interpreted that not all those measures are taken to provide all available vaccines that are effective and safe? How else can it be interpreted that the Member States commit themselves not to have their own plan for the supply of vaccines, even when there are voices that strong states in the European Union, such as Germany, have already made their own bilateral agreements? How else can it be interpreted that the Commission refuses to make public the contracts it has signed with the various companies, which, as you know, the European Parliamentary Group of the JRC has requested? And what, please, was the answer that he received from the Commission? What he says is to preserve the confidentiality of the negotiations with companies, that the market in medicines and vaccines is a highly competitive market, they have responded, and that sensitive business information should therefore be protected. In other words, listen to the Greek people's fears and learn what is going on behind their backs. It is indicative that the pretext procedure - parody in the case of a contract with a single company which, as announced by the Commission, is given for reading by the MEPs, in a separate room for some hours, and not even the whole contract, but some of its small extracts are chosen by the company. What's the conclusion? Above all, the protection of competition, of waste, of companies' interests, which undermines the process of the necessary vaccination itself. And why is he undermining her? Because it is very simple to refuse to make contracts public on such a sensitive issue that it does not contribute to dealing with the reservation or the fear that there is. On the contrary, it feeds all unscientific and irrational concepts around vaccines. Even disorientation of vaccines, drugs, which, regardless of intentions - and even ignorance - are not free of confrontation between various pharmaceutical companies and their satellites, are not, of course, mutually exclusive. Against these issues, which are matters for the salvation of human life, the government must take a stand. Why does it not seek to self-provide all vaccines certified as safe and effective, independent of their country of production, in order to achieve early and mass vaccination of the population? As also, other political forces that are in agreement with this framework have now been mocking the people that our country, our people, is supposedly isolated outside the European Union. And it turns out that we are finally isolated within the European Union itself. We are isolated because the Greek people and the rest of Europe and the world as a whole are being alienated above all the achievements of science and technology that exist in the 20th century, because the production and distribution of vaccines, such as the speed of scientific research and their approval, are determined on the basis of profits, geopolitical competitions, patents, commercial secrets and gambling with the various pharmaceutical industries and not on the basis of the need to protect people's lives and health. The Communist Party of Greece reiterates the need for all vaccines certified as safe, effective, to be used to protect the health and life of the people. The medicine, the vaccine cannot and must not be a commodity, but a social item alone. And that can only be achieved by socialising monopolies, that is to say, the people being the real owner of all those who produce them, free from the greedy capitalist profit and the hunting of the various dangerous competitions. This, of course, does not mean that only vaccines are enough to replace the messes that exist in the public health system. Even to implement a mass vaccination programme, such as that needed to deal with this pandemic, you need first of all to have public primary health care with infrastructure and all the necessary staff. Unfortunately, however, all those who have ruled this place have devalued primary health care, because it was - it was - a cost, as you consider it and which, of course, you have loaded on the backs of the people's families. And yet, primary health care could offer too much and really save human lives, mostly, but not only at this time of pandemic. However, your Government has made sure in the State Health Budget in 2021 that it cut off from already underfunded primary health care in excess of EUR 96 million compared to 2020. And the question is how it will cope with the huge vaccination project, with which staff, with which infrastructure will this mass vaccination programme take place. With the current situation and the vaccination exercises that have been sent to health centers, a number of issues have already arisen which are reported by their own health workers and their own bodies, such as a single doctor responsible for too many concurrent vaccinations, such as inappropriate vaccination sites, such as inappropriate waiting areas for those that are vaccinated and others. Until now, vaccination centres have been managed with 'blocks', i.e. with recycling of medical and health care staff and movements from decommissioned health centres and different hospitals. And we are talking about a vaccination programme which should be repeated and not just for the second dose, but also for the next time and for the next few years. However, the lack of primary health care has become even more visible in these months of pandemic, where the health system has become a system of disease. Thus, many patients with cardiovascular diseases, diabetes, obesity, respiratory diseases, cancer and so on, who are very high risk and have a worse prediction, have been delayed or even interrupted their attendance at the external hospitals, resulting in deregulation and, ultimately, an increased risk of coronary infection, resulting in a need for hospitalization, intubation etc. A well-organised and staffed primary health care system could and should cover these patients, who remain helpless, unless they have money, a lot of money, to resort to the private sector. Unfortunately, we have too many examples of this already since the first pandemic wave. Of course, we could talk about the services that a well-organised primary care system could offer in its own way the treatment of pandemic, so that our already charged hospitals do not hang out. In our proposal, primary health care has a special place, because we prioritise the needs of our people and the health sector. Ladies and gentlemen, at some point, sooner or later, this virus will be healed. What is not cured is this rotten system, which you serve. That's why we need, like, a seasonal fight to protect health. The rest in dentistry, so that I can also give the Bureau joy and consistency in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr Secretary-General. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make two announcements to this House. The Standing Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: "Definition of the range of hayalitis in the maritime region of Ionian and Ionian Islands up to Cape Tinaro of the Peloponnese". I also have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent debate on Monday 18 January 2021. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The 283/11-1-2021 topical question by MP Pella of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr.Theodoras Jakris to the Minister of Tourism, on the subject: "Extreme aid to owners of tourist accommodation and other businesses active in winter-health destinations". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 273/11-1-2021 of the Member of the State of Change Movement, George Kamine, to the Minister of Migration and Asylum, on "Restoration of transparency in statistics on asylum and the outcome of Syrian asylum claims". 3. The 282/11-1-2021 topical question by MEP I of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Yiannis Delis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Egnatia Street". 4. Mr Kritonas Arsenis, Member of the Commission. — (EL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Mr Arseni for his excellent report. B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The 284/11-1-2021 topical question of the SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance Mr Elisabeth (Bettis) Scooter to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Extremeness in the clearance of works for the years 2017, 2018 and 2019." 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question raised by Mr Georgios Mulkiotis, Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: 'Integration into heavy and unhealthy first-line workers in the treatment of coronary pandemics and inclusion of CIVID-19 in the national list of occupational diseases'. 3. The 290/11-1-2021 topical question by MP B2' Western Athens Department of Athens of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas Arsenis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Thessaloniki: International Exhibition of Thessaloniki (ITH) like Greek. From Metropolitan Park to Metropolitan Earth Winning." 4. The 285/11-1-2021 topical question by SYRIZA's MP Magnesia - Progressive Alliance Mr.Alexandros Meikopoulou to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Rehabilitation of the Volos Hospital the decision of the administration for the new organisation". 5. The question by number 277/11-1-2021 of the current question by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Independent taxation of newspapers of medical staff hospitals, health centres, EKAB and all health establishments". 6. The 291/11-1-2021 topical question by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas Arsenis, Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'Motocross Reports on Motor Sport in Dreams and Protected Areas'. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The 286/11-1-2021 topical question by SYRIZA MP Rethymnon - Progressive Alliance Mr. Andreas Xanthos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The problems in the availability of vaccines in Europe and the need to lift the status of "patent" in pandemic conditions." 8. Under number 278/11-1-2021, a topical question by the MEP of the Change Movement Mr.Michalis Katrin to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The mystical strategy of the banks strangles Greek businesses". 9. The 287/11-1-2021 topical question by MP Heraklion of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr Charalambos (Hari) Mamoulakis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "The need to upgrade the five unequal nodes of the North Road Axis of Crete (BOAK) in the region of Heraklion". 10. The 279/11-1-2021 topical question by the MP Argolidas of the Change Movement Mr. Andreas Poulas to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Award to the practice of the health of the National Health System (ESS)". 11. The 288/11-1-2021 topical question by Piraeus SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr.Ioannis Ragosi to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "New environmental injustice in Schisto Perama, Keratini - Drapetsonas. In the midst of the pandemic, with an anti-constitutional legislative initiative of the Minister for the Environment and Energy, an Attica waste transhipment station was authorised, while a decision by the Regional Authority of Attica is being taken to create a waste treatment plant, although the Regional Waste Management Plan (PESDA) is pending at Attica, as well as the new law on recycling is pending.’ 12. The question by number 280/11-1-2021 of Mr Kegeroglou's MEP, Mr Vassiliou Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: ‘A risk of unfair taxation on grounds of non-recovery of the agreed limit of e-commerce’. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 1902/371/19-11-20 question and application for the filing of documents by SYRIZA MEP - Progressive Alliance Mr Socrates Famelou to the Minister of Health, on "Serious responsibilities for the explosive increase in COVID-19 cases in Thessaloniki". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 1596/10-11-2020 asked by MP Argolidas of the Change Movement Mr. Andreas Poulas to the Minister of Health, on "Preparation for vaccination against COVID -19". 3. The 1432/340/4-11-2020 question and application for the filing of documents by SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance Mr Socrates Famelou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "It remains pending the identification of the source of dysosmia in the town complex of Volos". 4. The question asked by MP Boeotia of the Change Movement Mr Georgios Mulkiotis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on "Support measures for the armoring of closed care units for elderly - nursing homes in the middle of a coronary". The President of the Greek Parliamentary Group Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos has the floor. Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u19	Thank you very much, Mr President. I mean the following. Why until Tinaro? I don't understand. The Cythiras aren't Greek? Can't they have 12 nautical miles? I'm asking you about the bill you're calling, Mr. President. It is the world's originality of a Greek government, which makes an EEZ card, twelve nautical miles of card. We're doing all kinds of karts. We are going to today's conversation, which, frankly, is so tiring that people are not going to see us. And I say it, because it reminds me of "they came, they saw, and they went away." They come, they talk, they leave and the story is over. Neither the Prime Minister is here, nor Mr. Tsipras nor Mrs. Gennimatas, nor Mr. Koutsoubas nor Mr. Varoufakis. This is a tragedy, unfortunately. What's a tragedy? Why don't we realize, since we're talking about pandemic, that it's the obligation of each of us to attend the time when one of the Chiefs is speaking, at least half of us? It is a national procedure in the Greek Parliament to deceive each other. Let's go to the rest. Gentlemen of the New Democracy, do you know why you failed in the pandemic story? Because you didn't convince. You're not convincing about what you're saying. You have not convinced the Greek people that all you mean. And the fact is, you were unprepared. No Prime Minister could carry out such a pandemic on his own, and I imagine there has been no such problem in the last few decades in the country. On that alone, however, the Prime Minister should join with the other parties' leaders and experts to stand together in this regard. Unfortunately, he took responsibility himself and will take responsibility for the failure of this pandemic that comes. And I say this because we had oligories, half-truths, the introduction of strict measures without anyone asking either Greek parties or the citizens. The consequences of all this: the Greek people's constant question of any decisions taken by the government. I am referring to the lockdowns, I am referring to the mask, and I am even referring to the vaccine. Why? Because very simply, with relics, with lack of coordination, with the self-confidence of scientists who were saying other things in the committee, but on the channels, the Minister says, all of this has a consequence, not to be believed. How will they follow the leader of the country, the Prime Minister - why is every Prime Minister a leader of our country - the rest, and will they believe that all that he and his ministers say, all that he and the experts are the right ones? I'll prove it to you because you failed. I will prove to you that you are a failed government and should have been the Prime Minister here to prove it. The Prime Minister himself just a few minutes ago told us that it was 3 billion euros the cost of every month lockdown. The Prime Minister himself said it a few minutes ago that it is 3 billion. I am reading the statement from the Minister, Mr Staikora, on 5 November 2020, a few months ago. "More than 2.3 billion Lockdown's costs." Another 2.3 billion more. 3 billion more. It's 700 million. And that's not all. Wait a minute. I have a similar statement from Mr Stakoura, your Minister, in September 2020. 'In 2.5% - 3% of GDP, the monthly cost of Lockdown'. 3% of GDP for 186 billion of GDP makes us 5 billion a month. The Prime Minister tells us about 3 billion, 5 billion was told by his Minister once and 2.6 billion the other day. How will you become believers, gentlemen of the New Democracy? How will the Prime Minister be believed when his advisers give him the wrong evidence and his ministers don't know what's going on with them?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u20	Month after month they change!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u21	What month? GDP is one. It doesn't change with the month! What are you talking about, Mr. Hatzidakis? GDP changes every month? What are you talking about? Tell them nowhere else! Tell your minister who doesn't have an economy. I apologise, but this is how he exposes the Prime Minister of the country. The Prime Minister came here and with a steep prime minister he told us about 3 billion. Hey, it's not 3 billion! It's $5 billion! So when you start with a lockdown and you say it's 3 billion, while it's 5 billion, you start wrong. It's over! That doesn't change. It doesn't change. Let's go to the rest. The Prime Minister is willing to speak of digitisation of the certificates of vaccines. It has a great deal of willingness, a strong understanding, to vacate all Greeks. Good. Does the Prime Minister not know, did the experts tell him that there are people who cannot make the vaccine because they are vulnerable groups, have various autoimmune diseases? And it is said by PFIZER. Aren't these people gonna be able to go on a trip ever? Aren't Germany going on a trip? They're not going to France? Isn't that racism? Because I have an autoimmune disease and I can't make the vaccine, won't I travel? And then Macron comes, the Romanian President comes, the Canadian comes and they are "empty". Why does this study by the Greek Government and Prime Minister save and well that all Greeks should be vaccinated and well to obtain a certificate? And that's not all. Listen. The worst of all is that the Prime Minister came here as a "doctor" and told us that the vaccine is safe. He said it was good and safe and the Greek Prime Minister guarantees it. Didn't any doctor tell him that a vaccine or medicine to be safe takes at least three years to certify that it is safe? Three years it takes! It has been said by the World Health Organisation for too many years. Because the side effects occur after five years. They don't show up at once. I'll give an example of Contergan's case. It's a whole story Contergan. It is a medicine that contains a substance in it which is a little difficult to tell. But listen. This story of Contergan was from Germany. The whole world was selling the medicine, and the company guaranteed it was all safe. The children of pregnant women who were arrested two years later went out without hands and without legs. She wasn't filthy. If you don't know, you should tell the Prime Minister to look into it. It was Conterman's medicine. The company compensated, after thirty years of court matches, of course, people because they had certified the states that they were safe. And I ask you: what if the side effects come out after three years? One question is that. And today BLOOMBERG says about side effects of the PFIZER vaccine in Norway. Side effects! The Norwegian authorities are talking about the risk of vaccination in people over eighty years. [[At this point, Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis enters the Chamber]] The Prime Minister has come and I thank him for the honor he's doing to us. When BLOOMBERG talks about side effects today, gentlemen, how do we come out and say that it is safe? Today he said 'BLOOMBERG', Mr Vandemeulebroucke. If I'm not mistaken, you're a doctor. A few minutes ago he said that in Norway, twenty-three people in the Norwegian state had intense side effects from their vaccines. And it's mostly about people over eighty years of age who did the vaccine. It was said by the 'BLOOMBERG'. I'll testify for the Minutes. Here it is. Don't think I'm saying what I want. ‘BLOOMBERG’ refers to it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u22	How many vaccinated people? It matters!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u23	Twenty-three of the thousand in the last week. Listen, Mr. Xanthi, a life to be lost, doctor...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u24	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u25	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u26	Mr. Xanthos, I'm being nice to you. Don't do that. Expose now. I'm very kind to you. And that's not all. In Israel thirteen people - 'Jerusalem Post', today, I am not saying it - have experienced side effects of the vaccine on the face. I'm not saying we don't get a vaccine. The problem with you is that you have become protagonists of the vaccine. Wonderful! It's not the solution for the vaccine. There are other solutions. There's the drugs, the medicine. I'll tell you right away. I have a very simple question to ask the Prime Minister. He told us he asked for 12 and a half million vaccines. That's all it is. Under eighteen years a vaccine cannot be taken. Listen, it's twenty-five million, but it's for 12 and a half million population, because it's double the doses. Eight million people want to be vaccinated, because under eighteen years of age people are not vaccinated. That is what the PFIZER is saying. They won't be vaccinated. Isn't that right? So eight million. The remaining four and a half for 15 euros, 67.5 million euros, why are we giving them? Why are you taking twenty-five million? Take 20. What is the point of taking surplus stocks? Tell me about it. It's 67,000 euros. Sixty-seven million euros, 30,000 ICUs do, see how many ICUs do. Look at how many ICUs! It's just math, it's just arithmetic. But to the government - I don't know, the Prime Minister has bad advisors, I can't understand it differently, I honestly say that - they're mere fines. In wage increases you're not simpler. To benefits really to give work, you are not. The fines are simple, though. Listen. Netherlands: Basic salary EUR 1,700, 90 euros the fine for the mask. Germany: Basic salary EUR 1,550, 150 for the mask. Greece: Basic salary 500, 500 for the mask. Why? Why just the fines and the punishment of the state against the citizen? So the citizen hates the state, he hates it, he doesn't want it. We lead him to an extrovert from socialism within the state. They're mistakes. Also, because I do not know why the ministers in particular of the New Democracy are shouting and salivating how successful the government is, I still have a post from the "BLOOMBERG". Greece is fifty-five between fifty-three developed and developing countries is last in the European Union. In fact, it says something very appropriate, which we are going through. It says that Greece is one of the worst countries to live in the middle of a coronary. That's how we made Greece from the worst countries live in the middle of a coronary. Is that honorable for the government and for Greece? I'm talking about Greece. Leave the government. The government will come, sit, re-election soon, re-emerges, may not come back. For our Greece! And he says: Greece has two protagonists. Stricter lockdown from all countries and smaller citizens' mobility. These are referred to in the ‘BLOOMBERG’. Are these successes? If you do not believe it, I will submit the BLOOMBERG report for the minutes. I'll give it all together at the end. We are now going to the other contradictions, which the ministers have suffered mainly, because they are advising the Prime Minister, his advisers and his ministers. Many years ago your own beggar, the founder of your party, said: "Who rules this place? " Today, you know, this message is timely, but with another question: “Who decides about this place? Scientists or the government.’; This is where we need to see what is happening at some point. One is the Minister who tells us: 'Scientificists tell us and then we decide.' Then, when they see that there is a problem, they say: "Scientifics decide and we listen to them." Then the Prime Minister goes out here and says: 'We never heard them - and he testified it here this time - and we put a strict lockdown.'
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u27	He never said that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u28	He said that just before the Prime Minister. You weren't here, Mr. Hatzidakis. He said: 'We have not heard the committee once and we have even imposed more lockdowns'. Don't make me have a dialogue. The Prime Minister said so. Don't disprove him. He said it here. Let's actually go. Vatopoulos, your own man: "We recommend, the government decides." Hairdresser and Nicaragua: 'The committee has not been asked.' I'm telling you what people say. Agha: "We have been surprised by the government's decision to open the schools." Your scientists. Professor Tsagris: 'The government will decide whether to open up'. Athanasios Hectyl, President of the Pan-Hellenic Medical Association, known to be against the opening of schools on Monday that passed us. Lazana, Member of the Committee on Infectious Substances: ‘Policy the decision not to prescribe the COVID tests’. Kikilias said it was the expert's decision. So I show you the conflicting statements. Here are all the statements, I'll put them in the Minutes, have them, from your site are New Democracy, your favourite site, what we've been afflicted all day. But we will continue to put forward proposals. I'll develop them in my dentistry. Now I'll tell you the mistakes. Yesterday I saw a Prime Minister who was put forward by his ministers and the experts with their contradictory statements made him appear to be - I will say it directly - not serious, trapped by such statements, overthrows. To tell him about Mr. Kasapidis that I know him personally. Excellent man, honorable district ruler, honorable. But tell me, what will man say in his society when you've been carrying the cases in January since November? You'll tell me: Wrong. But when you finally have a state? When you say and yell, you're doing everything right? So these mistakes, because they are continuous, give the Greek people the belief that something is wrong and that you are not believed. That is the problem, that the government has not been believed by its constant mistakes. So we had a transfer of cases from November to January. And I'll testify to that in the Minutes. We're on. Linos, Professor of Epidemiology. Mrs. Linou is excellent. He says "MEGA": "They close areas without the case details." Ladies and gentlemen, you must listen to this. Mrs. Linou says that. It's their committee. In the ‘MEGA’: ‘The country falls short of the issues of pandemic transparency’. Mrs. Linou says that. It's in your committee. I'm trying to show you that the problem isn't one that governs the place. It's all the concentric circles around one. That's our problem. There is a contradiction between any statements made by experts, doctors, ministers. How will my uncle Stelios believe in the Old Mylotopoto Giannitson or worthy Yannitson my relatives that this government of what he says means and what he means is doing and is right? They'll never believe you. Interview of the Prime Minister for the Vaccines. He talked about two million. Then Kikilias said a million, six hundred thousand. It's contradictions. But there are two million more and six hundred thousand more. The Prime Minister says two million vaccines, Kiilias, the Minister, in the afternoon said six hundred thousand. I will also not say either about the hospitals and about the eighteen incubators we would have, now we are going to hospitals. I will say, however, that you have made a finesse, Prime Minister, when the vaccines with the 'Babis' truck came in. At first you brought them with sirens, with stories. Okay, I'll say it was a communication, if you want, barber. I'm saying it. But in Corinth, I'm honestly saying that, you did with a wheelchair. There's the picture! Yeah, I'm afraid so. But they expose these to you personally. All these around, the incompetent, the poor exercisers of their duties expose you. And see how the vaccines are being transported to Norway, Prime Minister. In a triple fridge. There's the picture! In France the receipt was made by the head pharmacy of the state in Paris, by no Minister of Hardalia, by any Kikilia. You went there with bands. It's good you didn't get the F-16 together. Incomprehensible things! What do they look like? That where we have to plan seriously, for communication, we sacrifice the substance. That's the problem. Also, the lady you see here with the sweater is "Mr. Norway's Chiodra is no accidental person. I'll testify to the Minutes and these. The seriousness of seriousness is a small step away. That's the problem. You also say to eighty-five-year-olds - I cannot imagine my father, he is fine in his mind, man, to be well, to live another fifty years - on the basis of the directive you made to get on the internet, to give his information or to run on the JEP and to get a priority order for vaccination. Eighty-seven people. That's not happening. You expose an entire government from such nonsense or say it otherwise than such nonsense. And you expose people like this, but also citizens. Also, at 9.45, the chosen Mr. Gerapetritis said: 'The committee considered that schools should not be opened'. At 11.28, two hours later, Peloni said: "It is not certain that the schools will open." On 13.11 the Minister of Education said: "They are on Monday grades and kindergartens." Well, tell me now in a few hours, it's not how to expose a man, one with another to be disobedient. It's a government. They're mistakes. You didn't do well, my Prime Minister, not you, but your advisers and ministers. You didn't do well, unfortunately. I will also say it otherwise, if we had set up a proper education, we could have a full day school from morning to noon. So what could we do? In the afternoon, from 17.00 ́ to 21.30 ́ we open - by click away you want to receive out - the retail trade and open the focus for these five hours, so people can work. There are restaurants there in the Old Faliro, Admiral, a bunch of fish taverns are deserts, closed. And they pay municipal fees, they pay power.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u29	They don't pay!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u30	Since March, they've been paying, sir. Now the government has decided to make the move. But I will tell you this: why should I pay electricity, why should I pay insurance contributions if I don't work? That's what I'm telling you. Why would I have five cars in my company and pay the traffic charges and the premiums while I'm not moving them? This man who has the restaurant or the fish tavern will be closed is certain. Let's open them up four to five hours this afternoon. But seventy years did not make it possible for Greece to have a full-day school, to open in the morning and to end at noon. That's the point. Here to talk seriously all parties about the next one that can come, I wish there was never another pandemic. But who are we going to talk seriously when everyone comes here to make a party spool, to expose the Prime Minister to get a 2% point, to defend the Prime Minister to remain in the 40% that the polls tell him? That's not what's going on in politics. This is the country's bad policy for decades. We say concrete proposals. That is our difference, that we have entered the Greek Parliament in a reasonable manner. And if some people think that by hitting Mr. Tsipras and others, Mr. Mitsotakis will get bonuses for party, they should know that over the party there is homeland and Greece, there is the health of the Greeks, there is the health of the people. Let's leave it a little bit out of this since we're talking about a pandemic, so the Prime Minister says, so the rest of us say. Aren't we a pandemic, which means it's a very big thing? Let's all find a common recommendation. Let's find out how to propose things. And what you're doing, Prime Minister, is wrong. Instead of talking all of a sudden, you decide to talk to the House, okay. While we had to discuss private proposals, as you have done in the past. Last time you did that. Now why don't you do it, I don't know. Maybe with reconstructing you have a different view of it now. Let's go to the rest. And as you were saying about education, Luxembourg's Minister for Health stated: "Children in our school sit one - one - alternate" i.e. zig - zag. They're working their schools properly. They work here too, but how? Not in the morning - afternoon. While if we had built a structured, serious, structured state, the government could decide this afternoon to open the retail trade, I open the restaurants for five hours not more, to move the market a little. I'm talking to you as an entrepreneur now. They'll close shops. They're going to be unemployed familymen and they won't have to feed their children, do we understand that? Here every month we'll be paid. These people won't have to eat. The focus has six thousand workers, Prime Minister, six hundred thousand souls. Six hundred thousand workers live from the focus, and this year is not open. How will they survive? With the crumbs we give them? Not that we have, you don't have money in the koruna, I get it. Where are we going to find them? For many here say, "give, give. give'. Yeah, we'll figure it out. It's important. Do they have a proposal? Oh, no. So we can't give. They're all talking. I have a few specific suggestions where we might find money. I shall shortly be telling them and I hope the Prime Minister will implement them. Then Mrs. Pagonis goes out and says: "There is no sense in such a ban. I do not know who gave orders, who has said such a thing about fishing and hunting." Why is the fisherman, who sits on his own beach, my Admiral, there in the Faliro and fishes, not to be able to fish? Or the hunter, where does he go to the mountains and mountains? Is the bug with the hunting? And Mrs. Pagony says so. You don't understand. When the government decides and says experts decide, but experts say the government decides the world is not convinced! Mrs Pagonis comes out and says: 'The experts did not approve the operation of a market within'. That's all I've been telling you for a reason. If you want to be persuasive as government and the Prime Minister is not to be exposed every day with what you say to him or we do not have to be exposed to the world, for what each one of us says is left and there are, to be serious at last, and I say so on the basis of knowledge. Listen here. Open with click away. Adonis is coming out, my friend - I've known him since the eighteenth year old Adonai - and he says "the click away huge success, bravo" and at noon you're shutting it down. And I'm telling you this: Click away means that I, the shopkeeper, put in the store in a pile of merchandise to sell, because the government told me I could sell. I ordered, supplied, paid. And he comes by noon, and you close it to me, and I'm off-limits. This Minister who did this has to hang backwards, I say, because he kills the economy, kills the shopkeeper, kills the one who opened with the optimism that his shop will sell ten euros. I'm telling you the very simple things. The damage you've done you don't understand. And it's a big damage. And the worst you know what it is? The damage to the economy can be repaired with a job, with a plan. But in erosion - listen - the seriousness of the political system and its solvency does not heal the wound easily. And the solvency of the political system has been very eroded by such mistakes, fatal mistakes and childish many times. Let's go to the next one. Germany. Because Mr. Xanthos said, which I very much appreciate, even though he has made a few verbal posts and is very concerned with my work, I will submit to the Minutes for him in particular the form of the German Ministry of Health. Here it is, I'll testify to you later. It's German. I don't know if you know German. I know and I'll give you a translation if you want. I say this: Unlike the Greek form, the German ladies and gentlemen, it mentions one of the side effects. Who are they? Can I talk to you? Injection site reactions: 84%. Fatigue: 62%. Headache: 55%. Muscle pain: 38.3%. Lips: 31%. Pain in joints: 23%. Fever: 14.2%. Frequency of side effects: 0.5% after the second dose. Less frequent in participants aged fifty-five or over. That's all. It says more about pregnant women, etc. Here it is. I'll give it to you to see. I repeat it and say that the Greek Solution is not against any vaccine. I've done a guess. In Germany - I grew up there - we had vaccines. But I cannot go out as Velopoulos - when my own doctors' research team in the party tells me that we are not 100% sure - to force the last citizen to be persuaded to make a vaccine. Although one life is taken away, I will be morally responsible. I'll never do it. On the other hand, I am disturbed, Mr Xanthi - you are a scientist, of course - by the demonization you are trying on the other side. Because I am not sure that all scientists are saying so well. In the Greek Parliament in 2007, the scientists told me that the ice would melt, that Athens would become a lagoon, that the earth would become like the moon from the ozone hole. Science is dynamic, not static. They're changing the data. So we have to be careful. Because if we took science today in relation to tomorrow, it's completely different. For example, the Earth is turning. Then they said it wasn't coming back. After a while, they said he was coming back. I mean what I'm telling you. So we have to be very careful when we go out and say that we are 100% sure that a vaccine is safe, because 100% means 100%. That's what the Greek Solution says. The body, the body of man is his, and he does everything he wants to do in any appearance of his personal report. You can't force him to do something he doesn't want. Freedom is there. That's what we say, nothing else. Anyone can do it if they want. It's not forbidden. But we won't force anyone to do it by force. That's what the Greek Solution says. And we're going to the next topic: Solidarity. I have told you a thousand times, Prime Minister, and in the New Democracy: stop talking about European solidarity. There is no, Prime Minister. You were an immigrant as a young child in France, but I was in Germany, Prime Minister. The German government, the German citizens, have learned to look at Germany first and then all others. I'm telling you, because I grew up there. Where does it mean what? There is no European solidarity. There's a German imposition. That's the truth. And Germany proved it once again when it's trying to get its own vaccines. Has Cyprus tried it with Israel, Prime Minister, or am I wrong? He tried it. So why are you sticking only to Europeans and not, if you like, sometimes different options? If there was solidarity, Prime Minister, it would be the German navy here in the Aegean Sea, it would be the Dutch, Spanish warships and would fight the Turks, they would be intercepted. Hey, there's no! What can we do now? To mock the Greeks? I wish there were. We all want a Europe of this kind, but it is a Europe of interests, unfortunately, of individual state or individual interests, which have overcome the whole of the European Union. We don't have any illusions. To change Europe to the best, yes. So, clear things, but another one. Also, what did Israel do? I am one of the worshipers, Prime Minister, of Israel as a state, because I saw what he did in the rural economy, what he did in the mutated products, in the hybrids the mutants, what he did with the wall so he didn't have illegal immigrants, what he did with his defense, a small state, children, with enemies all around - around. Such a state I want to have, to protect the citizen, to protect him safely and in health. What did he do? He went and took immediate vaccines, directly. Since you believe in the vaccine, since New Democracy believes in the vaccine and other parties - we have reservations - what were you supposed to do? What Israel did. What did the Minister of Finance of Israel say? He says so, listen. I want Mr. Brutsi to listen to me, who was Minister of Labour. Israeli Finance Minister in a statement said: “Lockdown costs 5 billion a month. We bought 9 million vaccines, double the money, 30 dollars, they make us 540 million euros. Yes, but we will avoid lockdowns." He's right. If I'm going to win 5 billion every month of Lockdown and indeed the vaccine is safe, since you say it's safe for you, you had to take vaccines above. That's what I'm telling you. That's not what you did either. In other words, even your "mark" for the vaccine did not do so properly.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u31	But before you said we got more.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u32	We didn't receive it, Admiral. Don't you understand what I'm saying to you? Did you receive it? Israel has received them, is receiving vaccines. Please, Mr President, he does so all the time, but he does.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u33	Don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u34	Another I am ordering something and another I am receiving. Is that the same? Christ and God bless you! November - December you said you would get two million. Mr. Blonde, two million didn't they say they'd get? Mr. Kikilis told us that we would have two million vaccines in December. So he said a few months ago, 'we're ready'. I'm telling you you didn't receive it. Even in what you say it's major for you, you're doing it wrong. That's what I told you. Why are you extinguished? I don't understand. What for?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u35	Excuse me, I didn't get it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u36	All right, my admiral, that's human. Let's actually go. Well, I won't tell you about the tests. The more you test, the more cases you have, that makes sense. You want to shorten the cases? You're minimizing the number of tests. They are the well-known things they do, the poaching and the odds that often seem or do not seem. But here's what's weird. I called ELSTAT. ELSTAT is the beginning not the government, but the state. From the first to the thirty-fifth week of 2019 and 2020, of the two years, we had almost the same deaths. They're exactly the same. In 2019 and 2020 we have exactly the same deaths. Isn't it a little weird? I'll testify to ELSTAT, here it is. Why should the government explain it to us? I can't with a coronary that I don't have any more dead, without a coronary in 2019 to have the same dead as 2020, the same time. The reason the scientists had to answer, I didn't. I say it. I'll testify. Also, why doesn't citizens believe? Listen a little. They're getting journalists out of the few, of course, who can argue with them, Mr. Tragas, let's say, and they're saying a lot of things this morning. I read from the 'GENERAL'. And now I'm a professor of medicine at the University of Athens in DIAGY to be president of this institute and so on, so that we don't expose people, and take 400,000 euros and go out every day to tell me "make a vaccine". In "DENGY", a university professor. That's what citizens see. When a scientist who loves the Greek who wants to enforce the vaccine has taken four hundred grand in a year from various things, like Chiodras and the others who take them, they will not be believed. We'll think they're silver. We'll think they're doing it on the payroll. That's what I'm telling you. It's a mistake. Put on other scientists that didn't at least get them. Four hundred grand in eight months, the lady taking and coming out and saying, "Make a vaccine"? They're mistakes. They are mistakes because Caesar's wife has to be seen and honest. Let's go to the next one. I'll talk about the mask. I do not know if you believe that the mask does the work you say, but I have Mr Constantine Gousita, Professor of Environment Engineering at the University of California, who says: 'Restricted protection of the mask in enclosed spaces'. He had a whole lecture in the United States, many teachers went out and said the same thing. It's not panacea the mask. It can also be dangerous to a certain extent many times when it is not used properly. It's like a gun. The gun gives you security. If you use it wrong, it's dangerous. That's why I'm saying the mask isn't panacea. Also, this mask premiere starts to trouble me. I learned that in Germany the mask is not mandatory, Mr. Xanthi, it wasn't. In September, October, November, December, the mask was mandatory only in the squares. When he had a lot of people, you had to wear a mask. Outside, you weren't wearing a mask. The same was true in the Netherlands. I don't understand why you should wear a mask everywhere. I'll tell you why you at SYRIZA don't say it: Our friends made factories, Mr. Xanthi. We need to sell the masks. The masks must be sold. And to be sold, the masks must be all over the place. Do you understand, Mr. Xanthi? In Germany, other things cannot apply. In Germany, man cannot move freely without a mask and go only to the square with a mask. What I'm telling you are examples of European. The problem in Greece is this: Check the channels. The channels show what you want. That's the big problem. They present what the government wants and says. Every day I hear from morning to night on SKAI and the other channels: 'Have New Democracy! Long live New Democracy!’. It is annoying - I honestly say this - for democracy. Unfortunately, that's the truth.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u37	You say that?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u38	I say so. I'm paying to get out, sir. I pay out of my pocket. I'm an entrepreneur. And I paid before. I'm paying now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u39	Mr. Comrade, please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u40	In 'SCAI', however, you don't pay. You give ads from the Greek people's money. I'm out of my pocket to go to regional channels. It's not the same. I get out of my pocket and pay 120,000 euros invoiced on regional channels. How much does the New Democracy give as a party or its Chief as a person to go out on the canal every day? Nothing. It gives ads from the Greek people's money. And please don't do that, because I want to answer you, because I respect you very much. Let's go to the rest to close. I am beginning to wonder about the economy if the government really knows what it is doing. Why am I saying that? With loans you generate debt. I've said it a thousand times. I repeat it for the first millennium. And you don't tell the Greek people that what you're giving now, the benefits, is the wrong policy. And I'll tell you why I'm saying that. It is philosophical to differentiate between us and our ideological. I say, therefore, that Mr Skylakakis, the Minister, is coming out and says: 'We lend ourselves to getting through' - and rightly so - 'and we give money to help the economy'. That money's borrowed. Sometime we'll be summoned to return them. Do you understand what you're doing? In an already bankrupt country, a bankrupt country, a year and a half we have not done anything, so that we can make economic sectors to produce wealth, as Israel has done, which has made planning and lending and giving. The next generation, then, my child, who is twenty - one year old, your grandchildren, your nephew will be asked to pay this money with interest. If that's what's called the right economic policy, you're wrong. If that's called a reasonable economic policy, you're committing a crime. That's what the Greek Solution tells you. Also, with benefits, you don't solve any problems. What has the Greek Solution said dozens of times? Give the companies the benefits to hire people. You are subsidising unemployment, not work. You make mistakes ideologically. You're subsidising unemployment. And I'll tell you why. Mr. Brutsi, you left your ministry. I know what I'm telling you. A businessman, not a tax agent or a university professor, speaks to you. Subscribe the job. You're wrong. Also, the country's debt is 340 billion. It's over 240 billion in time. Only 31 billion are cash. Gunshots are ringing. GDP collapses every day. We're not producing anything. In ten years we have lost - listen - 25% of our GDP. And in a year with COVID, we lost ten more. Do you know what that means? Do you understand that? Romania - I said yesterday - which we spent twelve years in GDP has gone beyond us. It has reached 246 billion, 247 billion. Why is that so? Because he started producing and creating. As far as unemployment is concerned, I should like to tell you incredible things. I won't say about the memorials because I'm tired. Here it is: September 2020; unemployment at 16.1%; second place in Europe. November 2020: youth unemployment at 33%, second place in Europe. Here are not students counted, who you know are not counted, as are the long-term unemployed not counted. This means that the Greek society is literally dismantled. When there is unemployment, crime is growing, addictive substances are growing - ask teachers - and many things are increasing that should not be increased in a society that is favoured. We need to solve the unemployment problem, get our children to work. Six hundred thousand Greeks left. If we put these in unemployment too, we'd be at 30%. Six hundred thousand, the blossom of Greek society has left, we have kicked them out - not to say 'give them' - I am unfortunately putting me in - and these children have to come back. The six hundred thousand Greeks must return, because - I repeat - they are the blossom of Greek society, tomorrow. We are the last in economic prosperity in European countries for the second consecutive year. Here you go. I'll testify to that in the Minutes. I'm telling you all this because there's going to be a time when the pandemic is gone. The problem will be global in the Greek economy. The focus, the free trader, the private employee has been dismantled. The hopes, dreams and all that Greeks believe have been reduced. We must at some point change the question of all of us and propose to the government and accept the Prime Minister, because he is - I repeat - Prime Minister of Greece, not Prime Minister of New Democracy. Also, in the lowest position in the ability of consumers to pay bills and save is Greeks. They can't pay PPC and water. These are the results, which, if they are accumulated with COVID, have ended the Greek society. We're done with it. There won't be any Greeks. It's perfect and perfect. You also cut subsidisation from farmers. Why? That's the drive lever. You have cut subsidies to farmers, disability benefits, PPC's social invoice. Programs for over fifty-five years have been cut. The municipalities are stalling and trying with two months and four months to keep people, they don't have any money. In Central Macedonia small businesses came out of subsidies due to COVID. Farmers waiting for retirement. Ladies and gentlemen, your father and my father have been waiting for four years to retire. Christ and God bless you! These people who paid contributions are waiting to get a pension of 300-400 euros. Do we understand that? Do we understand that? Have we ever thought about it? We're taking some money. The other guy who paid, he's waiting to retire, anyone, the military officer, who's cut things off for him and goes to court. All these are mistakes You, sir, paid for it! You paid for it! They didn't take you back? They didn't cut you off?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u41	They're turning us back.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u42	Please. Do not address yourself, Mr President, personally.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u43	There are at least two hundred sixty outstanding pensions that have not been paid. At least! Two hundred and sixty thousand people. It's not a number, it's not a euro. People are units, souls, bodies, hungry mouths. Do we understand that? That's what I'm telling you. And we're a successful state? Did we succeed? Despite the effort made by the Minister, the Minister's valuable effort at that time - to say it all - is still in place. Are we seeing this? Doesn't either of us see them? And yet there are children. They're our grandparents, our dads. Sixty-two - says - an advance pension of 300 euros and you wait in a long time. These are unheard of things, getting an advance on your pension and waiting when the rest of the pension is coming! Two hundred and fifty jobs from the building, which has been completed, are essentially in despair. Do we understand that? The Greek people are in despair. And I'll tell you one more thing. I don't know where you're from, Mr. Xanthi. I'll report to you the ski resorts, gentlemen. We have Kalavryta, Arachova, Cayaktsalan, Tria - Five Pigadia, Fall Mount, Nymphea - above the ski resort in Pisoderi - which is not working. In Germany and Switzerland they operate. These people have made farm tourist units to survive in the winter, because they have no to live, and they cannot work, they cannot work. It's closed! You shut it down! Nothing's working! Why? Entrepreneurs are falling apart. Tens of thousands of euros invested, hundreds of millions of dollars - I don't know how much - and abroad they work properly. Why is that where they work and they don't work here? What's the point? Hatzidosios comes out and says that one out of four companies will close down, ladies and gentlemen, in the next few months. He's the President of the Athens Chamber. Focus: 34% will close companies, 41% in commerce. Those numbers were supposed to scare us. And what's the worst? And I'm hanging up here. Instead of supporting Greek businesses, gentlemen of the New Democracy, listen to what crime you are committing, my Minister, by mistakes that you did not control the bankers. In KALIMANIS, one of the largest companies in Greece packed fish, etc., did not provide any more bank loans. They blushed the loans, they don't give her any funding. While the Turkish get, the French get, the Germans get, she doesn't get! So you've always done with "PITSOS" and "IZOLA" and with all the companies in Greek textiles, the banks closed the cliff, the company is over. The company "KALIMANI" is in danger of being found in Turkish hands at the "DARDANEL", which is a Turkish company because the Greek banks do not give it any loans. These Turks will take her too. If that's a good economic policy, you're wrong, you're making criminal mistakes. And on the other hand, they inform storekeepers, Mr. Varoufakis, that to maintain the POS, while the shop doesn't work, they have to pay the month 5.5 euros. Listen. The Piraeus Bank informed stores that have the well-known POS, which the state had to oblige them, that while the shop does not work, every month it must provide 5,5 euros of assistance because it has the POS. And I'm asking, how will he pay the POS if his shop doesn't work? How would he pay the POS machine if he doesn't work for his shop? It's amazing. I'm telling you the mistakes you made. If the Prime Minister listened to us, it would really be much better. He's not listening. That's the problem. And he's listening to the various paperworms he's gathered next to him that he's been told to be and he's doing whatever the man is. It's not his fault. When I have advisors, when my financial advisor, Mr. Viliardus, with his team Christodoulides and the others, are telling me wrong, I'm going to say it wrong if I don't look for him. I'm looking.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u44	Mr President, you must finish. You're about to triple your time. You've got a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u45	I do. That is where I will say our suggestions. If you're happy that while the market is closed, only the pawn shops work, something you're wrong. All pawns are open! Greek goes and leaves his fortune, his gold, his ring to get a little euros to pay his tax. These are mistakes. And the last mistake. You don't have money for the Greeks, but I have before me the ghost competition of Mr. Mitaraki. Friend. Now listen here. It gives EUR 6.2 million - there too - to a PLANET consultancy firm to advise, says, services for immigration. It gives EUR 6.2 million, gentlemen of SYRIZA, to a private company, the "PLANET" - legal company - to advise him on where to put the hot spots. I'm filing it in the Minutes. Until yesterday I thought Greece was going with an automatic pilot. I thought so. From today I am convinced that Greece is going with a broken automatic pilot. Unfortunately, that is the reality. We're going with a broken autopilot. We need to correct it so that future generations don't swear on us, because we have children and grandchildren and nephews who will at some point say that these people were the killers of our hope, that is, the children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u46	We are closing the protagonists of the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups with the speech of the President of the MERA25 Parliamentary Group, Mr Giannis Varoufakis. Here, Mr. Varoufakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, a good year for all and everyone with health above all, especially those who listen to us, if they hear us. The government, in the midst of a pandemic, had four obligations. Firstly, reliable management of information on pandemic and reliable measures on the one hand, strengthening the National Health System, thirdly, building an effective network of mass testing centres that would then be converted into mass vaccination centres and stay as a 'private' in primary care of the National Health System and, of course, a sufficient number of vaccines for these mass vaccination centres. These were the four that you had to do as a government. Let's get them one by one. The Prime Minister said earlier that with regard to the administration of information by the government, but also with regard to the way in which he managed to channel information to the people, the government was following scientists. And that was what we thought at first, that the government was actually following scientists. But, judging by impressive failures, we began to question whether the government was following scientists. And because, as Ronald Reagan had rightly said at one time: 'Trust, but verify', 'Confidence, but control', at some point we started asking - and other parties in opposition - for the Minutes to be given to us. For example, on 1 December 2020 I asked Mr Kikilis in writing to submit to the House the minutes of the meetings of the two committees, the Scientific Committee and the Committee on Services to see what is going on. And if you want, testify these minutes one or two weeks later, we don't mind. The point is that we all know that they can at some point be read, to see what the relationship between what scientists say with what the government is doing. The fact that there is discernment among scientists is also more obvious, but also reasonable. But we wanted to see the Minutes. Scientists have no problem with the publication of the minutes. You guys have a problem. Why? Because you want to hide that you do not do what scientists tell you, that you work for scientists as a fig sheet to do your head. And if you want to prove that I am wrong - and I will apologise if I really am wrong - you will be tabling the Minutes that I have asked you for from 1 December 2020. Confidentiality must exist not only in the elements that you do - and you do well - but there must also be the confidence of the citizens in the information you present to the citizens. You have built an entire information system on a digital para-state with direct assignments to 'logues'. This digital paradigm you built is not the best thing to inspire trust. I heard before the Chief of Officer County say it, but did I read it myself and ask you: Is it or is it not true that in Cozani thirty-eight out of the fifty-three cases of last Tuesday it was from 12 November? Tell us! I go through trust in evidence, trust in measures. Look, trust in measures, especially when it is dragonship, as it is and should be during a pandemic, depends on two things: their logic and their proportionality. I said it before today. You know I live in Aegina. So one particular person comes in every time and says to me: "Tell the government, is it possible that I can't go in on my own boat to go out and get some air, but at the supermarket where one is on the other, you press me, I press you, it's fine?" When your package of measures suffers from reasonable inconsistency, ladies and gentlemen of the government, you are undermining your measures. Can't you understand that? Is it so hard? Proportionality. I heard the Prime Minister say we are going to rekindle the economy by a fine of EUR 500 to those who undermine it by going out like this. And this horizontally disgraceful punishment, without any social sensitivity of who this man is, because he came out, how he came out, undermines your measures, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple. In addition to the issue of this unreliableness in action which undermines the measures, we move on to the second issue to the National Health System. You have spent the smallest amount in the European Union on the National Health System during the pandemic period and you have enrolled a negative increase for the National Health System. Prime Minister, you said - and quite rightly so - that we are here to make political controversy and disagree on policies, on hypothetical policies that have not been implemented. But you said we had no right to disagree about numbers. I agree. Is it or is it not true that you have spent the smallest amount in the European Union on the ESS and that you have registered a negative increase for 2021? Answer me. Mr. Contozamani, Mr. Undersecretary for Health, I read what you said about the ITH issue. Mr. Tsipras also mentioned it. If I read correctly - I'm trying to be as fair as I can - you said that for deaths outside the ICU, your comment was that it was not because of a lack of ICU, but you said that the problem is not complete, "is the scientific data that the doctor has and the situation of the patient, with which the doctor decides to introduce or not to introduce into the ICU." That's what you said. Let me try to interpret it and understand it. You say either that those who died would not have been helped if they had entered the ICU or that there was an ICU, they would have helped their introduction to the ICUs, but the doctor was wrong and it was because they increased - not that they necessarily died - the possibility of death.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u48	Read...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u49	Yeah, but from what I read you, there's no third explanation, only those two you have here. In other words, for a government that you have refused to see the people of the Federation of Hospital Doctors, GENGE, it is possible, as well as the movement that you have done, where you leave the doctors, whom the atheists dared to stick to COVID -19, to pass responsibility on these kinds of statements, look at what it causes, you undermine the public's confidence in the ability to cooperate with the nurses whom you applaud. Now we're going to the vaccination center network. You said more than a thousand, right? Over a thousand centers. I have asked you since December where these centres will be, because you have not done what the German Government has done, which, firstly, identified what these centres will be, put a budget line in the staffing of these centres and also managed to simulate the vaccination before the vaccines come to Germany. I told you, we were here and you were here. And you didn't answer me then. You told me we'd do over a thousand centers. Now these thousand centers have become a hundred, which are hospitals. In addition, where is the funds, Prime Minister, for the large exit of mass vaccination? You're talking about millions of vaccinations. Where's the budget line? In December I asked. The Minister for Finance was here, Mr Stakoras, and I raised the question: 'Where is the budget line concerning this large budget line?' There is no one word that affects it, and obviously you do not now have a network of vaccination centres, but you are sending people to the existing hospitals. Is it possible to send the "child" elderly to be vaccinated by pediatricians while the "child" ceases to work? That's all it takes. I don't need to do anything more, this description I made - and deny me that it didn't happen like this, but I learned it from a child's pediatrician yesterday - this is a statement of failure. Say one: "I'm sorry, we said we're going to make so many centres and we didn't do it." You spoke, Prime Minister, about four major centres. Well, you better do it. It should be more and it should be in addition to the thousands of centres you do not. In Britain only 2% of vaccinations will take place next week in hospitals. The rest are centers outside hospitals, which have a logic, which I do not need to explain, which has an epidemiological effect, and no one needs to be an epidemic to understand, plus that they are now setting up fifty major centres, for example at ExCel Centre in London, Millennium Point in Birmingham, Ashton Gate Stadium in Bristol, which will operate in the morning - night to catch the numbers, respectively the numbers you hope to catch, which you will not catch. Basically, what you are doing is singing instead of creating. You trade hospitals such as "Children", instead of setting up the center of mass tests and mass vaccinations now while pulling out the primary, instead of building it. You are actually closing down health centres to become vaccination centres, and we know that you have them in the long term. It is well known, let's say, what you want to do with the Gate of Adequateness in Thessaloniki, which is in my constituency. We're talking about a clear governmental fiasco. I was expecting you to come here today and admit that what you had in mind about mass vaccination did not succeed and tell us what you will do to achieve it, beyond the reference you made to the four centres that you did not tell us or where it would be, apart from being very little. I didn't hear anything, Prime Minister. You have a dentology, you have a tritology. I would ask you to enlighten us, because this frugality, this governmental fiasco, has major victims, because every man who is not saved, while he could have been rescued, is a disaster and a tragedy. Using the valid data of the British Ministry of Health, "Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency" - I tell you clearly, to be specific - adapted to Greek demographic data, we see that if we manage citizens over eighty-eight years, who are thirty-eight thousand, to inoculate them, we will have saved sixty-seven of the deaths we would have had differently. If a million eighty-two-two-two thousand is vaccinated, then we'll save eighty-eight lives of the percentage we'd lose. If three million and thirty-three thousand are vaccinated, all sixty, that figure would be 97%. We'd save ninety-seven of the hundred that we'd lose. Therefore, speaking of the average of vaccination in the first half of the year - but this includes in the previous days of January we had tragicly low vaccination numbers - if we had thirty-two thousand a day for the first half, we would save ninety-seven of the hundred lives we can save. Throwing the average out of twenty thousand three hundred eighty-daily doses - number you have not reached yet and will not reach since you have not built this network of vaccination centres - we will lose nine more of the hundred people we could have saved. And if you drop the average - which is very likely and so it seems - about nine thousand, then we'll lose thirty of the hundred people we could save. This is the cost of your failure to set up the thousands of vaccination centres you were talking about in order to reach the number that you were going to achieve. What can citizens expect now? You spoke of millions of vaccinations in the next few weeks by the end of March. That's what I see. I'm going to make a prediction. I had also made a provision for GDP and, unfortunately, I had fallen in. I hope in this prediction I'm going out. I really hope so through my heart.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u50	Fifteen percent...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u51	Uh, yeah. You'll have as much, Mr. Mitsotakis. You're being exposed right now. I told you about a slight recession minus 10%, with a tendency to minus 15%. The recession will close by 15%, Mr. Mitsotakis. When I said for a minus 10%, you and Mr Stavros and, more generally, those of you who are outdated say, "What is it that the destructor says?" You were talking about less than 3%. Now, you say less than 10% and I tell you that in May 2021, perhaps a little later, when the figures for 2020 are being closed, it will be closer to the 15% minus, rather than the 10% minus. After all, who had spoken first about minus 10%? I, not you. You said 'we don't know' when I told you it would be at least 10% minus. That is why I recognise you as a democrat your right to be exposed. Report once again on the question of who fell inside and who didn't. Now we're going to something else. I see from the rate of vaccination escalation that we'll be lucky to have eight hundred thousand in the first quarter. I do not see you as capable, as you failed to set up the network of mass vaccination centres and now you are talking about four major centres. I wish you'd succeed and I'd come here to do what you didn't do today. Today you should have said: 'Mr Varoufakis, we disagree with everything, but at least on the issue of the forecast for GDP you fell in.' I'll come and say, if you're really denying me, you're disobeying me and I'm happy. It's an inappropriate loss of what I predict, we predict, with the evidence I have given you. About ten to twenty people from a hundred who could have saved in the first semester, we'll lose them because of your oligarchy, Mr. Mitsotakis. Now we're going to the vaccine orders. Let's talk a little bit about the framework. We as a PART25, a deep European party, fully agree that under no circumstances should we escape from the European framework. The European framework is very good, of course, with the first stage - if you remember - of the pandemic where it was done. He who saves himself is saved. Germany prohibited exports of medical equipment to Italy. You remember those things. At some point they were set up in Brussels and decided on joint orders and a central distribution which we support. Mr Tsipras, since you have come to mention what you have said about the patent. I liked it too, as your own MPs applauded you, so I felt a raise when you referred to the inventor of the vaccine against polio. He gave it to him. The 'PFIZER' and 'MODERNA' do not give it. To do what you say, in order for patents to belong to people who need these vaccines to survive, there is a huge structural change in the entire capitalist system of the European Union. Is that what you're gonna do? If you were in that position today, would you? How would you do that? Here the night of the 2015 referendum you said "yes" to everything, because that's how you saved the country. I do not think you would do anything different to hit the property rights of PFIZER and MODERNA. Prime Minister, you said a word that you know, at the hanged man's house, they shouldn't be talking about a rope. It's the equivalent of the rope. You talked about the money tree. The money tree exists. The money tree operates systematically daily. Why do you think that stock exchanges are currently at the highest level in the history of capitalism, while capitalism is on the tartaric? Because of the money tree, because central banks print trillions of euros and dollars every day - this is the money tree - and they give it to their own, to the financial system. Mrs. Lagard and Mr. Draghi have printed how much money have they made since 2015? I'll tell you why you may not have the number available in your mind, 5.5 trillion euros. If that's not a money tree, then what is it? You could, as the European Council, have said that a piece of the money printed by the European Central Bank - supposedly - by the citizens of Europe - will go to ensure that the instalments are paid. However, we are now going to something that I think is much more important, because it is about European-level involvement, not only at Greek level. We are well aware that the European Union, in the framework of this common system - which we in Merra25 too want to see, is part of it - for the ordering of vaccines, in September three hundred million doses were ordered by the European Union by the BIONTECH PFIZER and three hundred million doses by GSK/SANOFI, French, which, of course, did not finally produce a vaccine that works. Nothing from 'ASTRAZENCA'. Another vaccine that works. Maybe this is where Brexit has to do. It is unacceptable that the European Union played such a game or because the 'ASTRAZENECA' is interconnected with Britain. No agreement between the European Union and the European Union on the market before mid-November. So when the European Union signed the contract for the purchase, even of these 300 million instalments by the 'BIONTECH PFIZER', the European Union had left behind in the tail. This is a huge failure in Brussels. And what right are we not criticising? We here criticise our Government as patriots. As Europeans, we have a duty to criticise this failure in Brussels. What is the result of this failure? One million doses that have already been converted into vaccinations in Israel are ‘PFIZER’. The 1 million "PFIZER" in Britain, which despite Brexit had taken it first and a million British have been vaccinated with the German vaccine. This rajadism of your memorial arc breaks bones now, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Marcus Zender, Prime Minister of Bavaria - he may also be a Chancellor of Germany depending on what is happening today in the internal vote within the CDU - says this. I have it here, and I translate it while I read it. He says: "I cannot understand how it is possible for citizens from other countries to be allowed to be vaccinated so quickly by an amazing vaccine that evolved in Germany. Time is valuable. People die every day because we don't use it. If Israel, the United States and the United Kingdom are in front of us with vaccines produced here in Germany and earning more financially, and I cannot explain it to the German citizens." It criticises the European Union. You can't. What does Europeanism mean? It means that we want to move in a European context, but in order for the European framework to work, we must have the opportunity to look at them in the eyes and say to them: 'You have failed, ladies and gentlemen, because you are intertwined'. Why were they ordering three hundred million doses from the SANOFI which did not produce vaccines? It's very simple. Complication of the Franco-German axis. We are talking about an external and internal troika vaccination scandal in Greece now. Now we're going to the German apostasy. Germany has not only criticised Mr. Zender. He also made a distance. That sounded like it before. On 21 December in this Chamber I said the following. I asked a question. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, is it true or is it not that the German Minister for Health, Mr. Gens Span, has the procedure of declaring Germany from the common strategy ahead of the common strategy and has it put national planning for delivery to the German authorities of vaccines outside the European Union? If that's true, what are you doing? Are you going to remain on what they're going to send you? Will you object or will you ensure extra vaccines like the German Minister for Health? You didn't answer me. You have only told me that we are going and doing what the European Union says. You didn't even criticise Germany, nor did you do what Ursula von der Lyen did, which started an investigation against Mr. Gens Spanna to circumvent the common framework. I bet I don't think they're sending the troika from Brussels to Berlin to shut down Deutsche Bank's ATMs, but that's another story. On substance you had four obligations. Reliability of measures and data on pandemic, HSH enhancement, public network of mass testing centres and vaccination after and rapid vaccination. It was four obligations that led to a quadruple government fiasco. Now we're going to the economic pandemic. We've been through this, but it's worth remembering some basic elements. You say and say again, Prime Minister, you, Mr Stagioras, and your Government, that in this area of slowing down the financial pandemic you have done very well, that you have managed well the funds that the Greek State has, that you did not spend everything in front, that you did not accept what we have been saying since the first time, that is, what you now put it on the fire to erase it as quickly as possible, that you kept it and now give it. It is precisely, Prime Minister, the same nonsense as saying: "I have many vaccines now. Of course, I won't be enough for all this time. That's why I'm not gonna do it all together. I'll leave to have it then. In other words, it escapes you that, as in the health pandemic, in the economic pandemic, contagion and multiplier effect is what gives you a duty as Prime Minister to fire what you have at the first moment. Not to save vaccines, to save the possibility of helping shops that will put a padlock on, thus creating a chain of locking reaction that you will then want a lot more money to be able to deal with. You asked us to make creative suggestions to you. We've done you. Maybe they were fools. In the budget, when we made these proposals, you should tell us that they are foolish and explain why. You didn't. I'll do it again now, too fast. Firstly, a most creative proposal: the suspensions of this period which you have made in shops, in companies affected by more than a certain amount, these debts, delete them. Why is this a creative proposal? Why is she financially responsible? For the simple reason that this deletion is an investment in public revenues of the future. Because if you don't delete them, they'll put a lock on them, and if they put a lock on them, you'll erase them and you won't receive the time. Something more specific that you should at least understand. The large companies have given capital support - not loans - and you have taken back shares, such as 'AEGEAN'. You don't do it in the small- and medium-sized ones. You give him the returnee and a piece will have to pay you back. You may be inhibiting the point of repayment, but the other person who does his packages knows that he has to give it back. That maximizes the padlocks. You asked for a creative proposal, we made it to you. Anglich is an option, an option. You could say that any of the small and medium-sized ones cannot or does not want to pay them back, can choose - using the same platform that entered to get the returnee - to give an option to the public. Essentially what it gives is the right to the public - which the public will never use - to take a piece of the company's ownership rights. Is that practically what it means? It means that it does not return this money, as it is a capital support until it sells the company, so it will have to repay the state. Here's a creative proposal. Think about it. We have told her from the budget, we have not been heard. At least tell us if it's unfair or wrong. I'm coming to finance now. Prime Minister, you had the courage to come here and talk about 72 billion from the Recovery Fund. Then we told you that for 2021 at the most you could take 3. Not more than 3. Eventually, we were very blankets. Because in your budget you signed 2,5. This whole story with the Recovery Fund will remain in the history of the Eurozone as the ashes thrown into the eyes of the citizens of Europe in order not to become the Eurobond. This fund is macroeconomicly insignificant. What you will eventually get will not go to companies that have absolutely nothing to do with the backbone of the Greek company, see "FRAPORT". To give you a size class, in 2021 you will get 2.5 billion according to your budget and only for 2021 you have 11.5 billion debt repayments. And since we're talking about debt. Aren't you going to negotiate on the debt? Do you think the debt is sustainable? It was not sustainable before you were elected, contrary to what SYRIZA says. Now? The latest figures are not 440 billion. The public debt is 364,9 billion. This was on 31 September 2020. With GDP falling to 162, we are talking about 225%. To these add the other, secret debts that are not here, like the two billion you have taken. Isn't that a debt? You borrowed them. Aren't you going to turn them back? You'll turn it back. The armor's money. The 12 billion you will give to the predators, through the 'HRAKLE', which is forewarned that you will give them, or state that you will not give them. State it here that you won't give it. I wish. If you put all this in, we go to 237% with 240%. Debt alone doesn't matter, none. At the moment, you will tell me: 'Look, we sell bonds for free'. Free, zero rates. Yeah, for one reason. It's one reason. The European Central Bank, the Troika, has signalled the stockbrokers: 'By buying them, we are behind', despite the fact that this state is totally bankrupt and that is why they buy them. If they bought a German punt they would have a yield of 0.8%, plus something of our own bonds, given that they have behind the European Central Bank they are fine. This does not indicate that we are not bankrupt, it shows that we are bankrupt, but who is being hanged on the handkerchiefs in the newspapers, as was done in 2015, 2014, 2012, 2011, 2010, is a matter of political will of the Troika. That means, at the moment you are a donor to the Troika Prime Minister, just like the previous ones. I'm not just saying it for you. That's what it means. And the bigger the debt, the greater the force of the troika, which will come here at some point and tell you: 'Come here, you have a deficit of 15%.' So you will - have no doubt - when you don't get back all of what you're supposed to get back. When ELSTAT's ball sits, you'll see that you'll be at minus 15%, to go from minus 15%, not at plus 1%, plus 2%, plus 3%, at minus 3% to go. The recovery we will have this year, you know what it will be. You know that very well. It can't be made more patient. It's not gonna be enough to go from minus 15% to minus 3%. You're going to need measures, supplementary pensions, main pensions, taxes, you're going back to the tax advance where they were. What does that mean? It means that when the small and medium-sized one starts to rise - we hope that this tune of pandemic will leave above us - when the small and medium-sized one begins to recover, the austerity that the troika, the fifth memorandum, will be imposed upon you, hitting him in the head, to be or to be shot back in the canvas of the crisis. It will be unbearable after so many years of crisis, and after this year and last year, the fifth memorandum. You have no doubt, Mr Mitsotakis, that this will be the beginning of the troika's search for your replacement. Let us look more generally at the international context, the European and the...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u52	If you can, Mr. Varoufakis, be briefed. You've got a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u53	I will not be brief, Mr President. And I ask you not to violate this procedure with such intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u54	So we shouldn't accept that...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u55	No, they shouldn't, when the previous ones spoke forty and fifty minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u56	I made an observation again.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u57	I do not recognize the right to stop me right now. Do you recognize the right to make such a distinction between political leaders? If you recognize it, your problem. Ladies and gentlemen, the international situation is important. We don't live alone, we know that. COVID -19 is the take-off of inequality and imbalances, inequality within countries and imbalances between the states of the European Union and in general. The north and the south are now detached. It was a disgraceful European Union in macroeconomic terms. If you see, right now in Germany, despite the problems with COVID -19, and industry and services have almost recovered, and France is sinking. As far as Spain and Greece are concerned, I should rather not look for a verb to describe what our path is macroeconomicly. We have a second form of imbalances between industry and services, with the services accepting the greatest blow and the industry recovering. We know very well that our country has no industry, so in this area we are in a precarious position. We are in the part of Europe that is detached, going to the bottom. And a quick look on the other side of the Atlantic, because that also matters. The result in Georgia, where Mr. Byden secured a small majority in the Senate, will result in a budgetary increase in the toning injection from 900 billion to 1.5 billion. At the same time, another note. I want you to see that in the United States they will eventually give $2,000 to every person. When I proposed that it should be done by the European Central Bank in March, you were mocking. You did well. What does this evolution mean to us in the United States? It means directly that the euro will be strengthened in relation to the dollar, and because the British pound coincides with the dollar, British tourism, which is already affected by the long tail at airports because of Brexit, will become even more difficult. It also means that our exports as a whole outside the European Union, which was a form of strengthening the Greek economy, will go downwards. Generally speaking, Warren Buffet, the well-known broker has built a network for a long time, which for him has been ringing some risk bells about the stock exchanges from his own perspective, which we don't care about. This indicator is the ratio of stock values in the numerator and the United States' GDP in the denominator. I have to tell you that last week this was the highest level since 1929 and since 2000, just before the 'dot - com bubble' came up, the 2000 bubble. What does that mean? It means that if he shuts up, we'll have more recession and increased interest rates on the public debt. And if he doesn't shut up, we'll have a greater finish and growth of parasitic oligarchy, which is currently gaining from the good course of stock exchanges to the detriment of the economic dynamics of small and medium-sized enterprises. Choose your poison: Do you want to shut up or do you want to shut up? In both cases the country's budgets and small and medium-sized enterprises will suffer. I should like to close down, ladies and gentlemen, with one point. Prime Minister, your government has entered into a war in the middle of a quarantine with society, especially with youth. You identify the neo-fascists of the "top square" here and of Capitol with the exemplary assemblies of the citizens in the "bottom square" then in that unique experiment of direct democracy in 2011, aimed at resisting the destruction of the Constitution and the conversion of the country into a Troika protectorate. If you want to compare coups - with or without introductorys - you have many examples of recent history: the appointment of a donor Prime Minister in 2011 by this House and the one you made together the Memorandum Arc in July 2015. Today, as a government, you continue that task of abolishing democratic sovereignty. Let us think about it together what you are doing: you are building a police state and you are banning demonstrations even seven of our Members on the basis of a paradox. You say police brutality is justified, legalized when it applies the law. The law is legal because it is based on the Constitution. The Constitution is legitimized because it expresses the people. But do you forget that the people imposed the Constitution through illegal acts out there on the Constitution Square? That's why it's called Syntagma Square! That's how the cycle of your irrational authoritarianism closes. And a very simple truth unfolds: you are a new EPE, a post-modern ERA. Neither the radical liberalism of Constantine Karamanlis nor any form of neoliberalism has touched you. You build a new para-state, digital para-state, with direct assignments to the "losers", predator funds that you finance with public debt, to the banks you are stalling and privatising with public money. You took the refugee from the Ministry of Justice and gave it to Mr Chrysochide. Now you're delivering the universities to him. By investing your neoliberal hatred and by adding it to the extreme right - right hatred to refugees, you add neoliberal hatred to the public university. Prime Minister, do you want to show that you're hurting universities, that you want discipline, that you want to hit, that you want to hit the unrecognition at the university inside? I want it too. Remove the largest nursery of anxieties, interdependence and authoritarianism within the public university! Remove the SGP! That's where it all starts and then they go to the rest of the public sector. [[Applause from the Wing of Mera25]] You won't, because you want an interconnected union in the public sector, when it supports you and when it builds you nursery for young people who then go and through pandemic are appointed general hospital managers of the ERC. As Roosevelt said about Somoza: "He's a bastard, but he's our bastard." This also applies to the SGP with you. Take note of what you are doing, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, because you are now doing something with education - we will see that as well - you are resetting the base of '10'. Yeah, but it's a little hard to do, because you've fallen under "10" almost everything in the management of the pandemic. Let me read you - nothing! - Two lines and I'm closing. From Johns Hopkins University, EUROSTAT, and the V-Dem Institute of Political Sciences of the University of Gothenburg, Sweden, a country ranked on the basis of respect for the democratic standards of the pandemic period. We were last together with Bosnia-Herzegovina and Serbia. Congratulations! The perfect ones of excellence! Also, major restrictions on freedom of the press, discrimination policy against minorities, abuse of safety principles, prolonged and epidemiologically unfounded penalisation of asylum seekers, restrictions on journalists access to information, verbal harassment and arrest of press officials. That's what the Göteborg University says in Sweden. You will tell me that 'these Swedish may also be communists, social democrats. All right, let's leave them. Are we going to the World Economic Forum, to your children, your neighbors, your Davos partners? You know they took out the special competitiveness report for 2020. Who were government in 2020? You. In the 11 main areas to enable a country to recover from the pandemic, the World Economic Forum rated Greece below the average for all except one, where we only caught the average. In the field of ‘public institutions have stable operating principles and a long-term vision’? average 60.46.3% you. In the field of taxation policy, the average of 50, 42,6 you. In the area of "modernisation of education" 56.3 average, 38.7 you. In the field of "processing of labour legislation and social protection" averaged 61.4 you 47.6. In the field of 'enlargement of care for the elderly, children, improvement of health system infrastructure' 47.8 average, at the bottom of the score, Greece had 24.73. In the 'long-term investments and stronger stability' sector, with an average of 69,2, 68,3 you. In the area of competition policy, for which you are cut - and these are elements of your friends, your fellow Members, your colleagues, not any left-wing, Social Democrats, Green -62 the average, 49 you. In the area of research and innovation which can create new markets tomorrow, 41.6 the average, 25.31 you. In the field of enterprise incentives - neoliberal party you are -62.2 the average, 59.8 Greece. [[The President-in-Office of Parliament, Mr KONSTADINOS TASOULAS, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Greece is the only country that, according to your Davos escorts, in the eleven sectors, only catches the average in one sector. You are presenting yourself as excellent in management - you have done so today, Prime Minister - when all you care about is being pleasurable with oligarchy and interests. Both of you can't do it. Whether you are excellent or enjoyable to the fewer. Choose.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u58	After completing the first cycle of speakers with their prototypes, we go to secondarys, with Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis first speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u59	Mr Varoufakis will never cease to be surprised at the degree of complacentness and arrogantness of Mr Varoufakis, who is still referring to his journey before 2015 without any consciousness of his enormous personal responsibilities for the fact that the country has arrived on the verge of bankruptcy, we have been loaded with an unjustified third memorandum, our banks have been bankrupt, because he wanted to play his own game of resistance with the Troika, in collaboration with Mr. Tsipras, who at the last minute made his own personal "cock" and with the support of the New Republic has kept Greece in Europe. Let us see where we would be now if we had followed these nice policies of Mr Varoufakis. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We have said that many times, it is simply the order of the speakers that I always take the floor after the last speaker in the prototype cycle. I now come to my answers to what I have heard from the other political leaders and I begin with the position of Mr Tsipras. In the first two minutes of your position, Mr Tsipras, I had the impression that you could escape the normal context of confrontation and attempt in this Chamber to have a substantial debate, with documented criticism, with evidence and fertile proposals from the point of view of counter-population. You have even talked about a new consciousness of collectiveness, which I am sure exists in society, and it would be a good thing at some point to be reflected here in Parliament too. But that was only in the first two minutes. Then you returned, in the remaining fifty-seven minutes, to your well-known self and armed, once again in your word, with all the clichés of your party's minority self. Excessive, inaccurate, selective evidence - I shall prove all of what I say - and of course total lack of any essential, creative proposal, in addition to some unequivocal genealogies that might be relevant to a high school child's report, but they do not fit in with a Chief of Officerial Opposition, former Prime Minister, who has ruled the country for four and a half years. So I come to reply specifically to what you have said. Your proposals, Mr Tsipras, have been exhausted in making more recruitments to the ESS - you have told us many times - to carry out more tests, to make more rapid vaccinations. So let's go see them one by one. And, of course, you once again criticised us for the fact that we in this Chamber have not made any self-criticism at all. You referred again to the incident in Thessaloniki, segregating a specific event for which I have given answers in this Chamber and saying once again inaccurate about exactly what was said by this Step. When I spoke to the House at the most difficult time of the pandemic at the beginning of December - because I was not hidden, I came here to the House to inform the National Representation of what happened last November - I also took the share of my responsibilities. So I said specifically, and I say it again, having done my self-criticism then what we could do differently. We could have imposed the use of masks everywhere earlier, limited night entertainment earlier than we did, and possibly in Thessaloniki we should have a few days earlier to take more drastic measures. And I said I didn't see anyone from the Opposition suggesting that! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Have you asked, Mr. Tsipras, that you or any of your people should shut down Thessaloniki earlier? Have you done it? Answer me, and now if you want. Answer it now, if you'd said so. No, you didn't. Because you wanted to be good at shoppers as well and at the same time criticise safe, ex-post. The truth is very specific about what happened in Thessaloniki and I will say it again, I have no difficulty. There were, in fact, some infectious and some local players - not the anti-politics executives - who were actually asking for Thessaloniki to close down earlier. But this was not the recommendation of the committee of infectious animals. And this is completely registered and official, and none of the executives have opposed it, by the scientists who participate in the Committee on Infections. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] And you know why this evidence can be confirmed on the basis of the facts? Because we saw it later, Mr Tsipras. And you come over here in this Chamber and you claim that you don't want to make politics over the dead and do exactly the same thing, but you do it in a vulgar way. Because you're coming in and invoke a time point. What's that? You are invoking the last week of November and the first week of December, where the country was indeed above the European average in deaths. It's this chart here, Mr. Tsipras. Only you showed half of it once more. Here, indeed, we were above the European Union. But the rest of the time was better than the European Union, as we are now better, Mr Tsipras. So isolating it in an adventure that lasts a year, a week where things in our country have actually gone worse and standing insistently on this very element, to show supposedly impotence of the government, is not just unfair, it is totally undignified! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] They are undignified, they are inferior to the circumstances and you certainly do not honour this way and the struggle for health, who in extremely difficult conditions have given themselves the best, so that they can cope with this unprecedented crisis and do not respond to the main concern, that we do not have normal situations here, but we have a pandemic that hits once a hundred years. Show me a country in Europe which was not called upon to handle a corresponding increase in cases at some particular point in time. And you come here and call for statements made in the House that Lockdown will last three weeks, when I was first in every public position, I said that we cannot make accurate assessments of a pandemic, which still gives us all a surprise, not just us. And, indeed, it would be a wishful task if the second lockdown could last three weeks. Unfortunately, we had to last longer, because very simply the cases did not fall at the speed with which we would like to see them. When, first of all, from the beginning of the pandemic, I have said that there is no stable one, that we are reassessing data at regular intervals, that we are all obliged to review the viewpoints on the basis of data, you come and stand at a certain point in time to demonstrate that a change of strategy is a failure of the government. All European countries did the same. Germany is coming and says now that it can be in a lockdown by April. But I did not see anyone criticised Germany, Chancellor that he said anything different today than what he said 15 days ago. But the data's changed. Is it so hard to understand that? So you're so embedded with the need to constantly criticise the government that you can no longer objectively see what's happening and recognize that this is not a Mitsotaki pandemic, it's a COVID pandemic, it's a pandemic that hits all the countries in the world? And as unpleasant as you are - why you emit every time you talk - the fact that on several levels we have done better than the other European countries is good for Greece. It may not stick to your opposition account, but it is good for Greece. The fact that today - look here a little, Mr Tsipras - Greece is the only country, together with Denmark and Finland, which has a positive index of less than 4%, is good for our country, because it is good for us to then allow us to give this information to the experts, to make decisions on a gradual opening up. In order to reach this point, the whole society had to make a great effort and a great price. Finally, you understand - and here I agree with Mrs Gennamata's initial position - that we are all together in this adventure. We're all together! And, at least, if you want to criticise, accompany it with documented proposals. This story about the ESS and the so-called neoliberal obsession of the government not to support the National Health System has become a psychosis. But come on, it's this government that doubled the beds to intensive care units and beds. Have you given any explanation why you as government delivered five hundred and fifty-seven beds? Why have you five hundred fifty-seven beds delivered to you who care so much about the ESS? Why? Answer me. Why did one of your days have to wait fifteen and twenty days in a normal flu epidemic to get into intensive therapy? Why did all this happen? [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Your days have all been! Yes! And there came a centre-right government, and it went the five hundred and seventy-seven beds to three hundred and will go to a thousand and five hundred. And this government came and recruited the National Health System! This government has strengthened the hospitals! Go to the district hospitals. Aren't the hospital workers telling you that each hospital was reinforced by subsidiary staff, part of which will be permanently installed? Aren't they telling you that? And when you're asking for all the anti-population parties, do you think there are today anestheticists available in the country that could be recruited to the National Health System? Are there? Tell me, are there doctors we haven't hired today? Are there nurses now available for supplements, which could be hired and not recruited? So tell me where are these anesthetics who can't be hired to the National Health System? Don't move with indignation.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u60	Please! We're not interrupting.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u61	Identify reality and accept the data as they are captured. I now come to the second issue, to the question of tests. That's where I really didn't understand your location. Do you consider the rapid test unreliable? Say it openly if you consider it unreliable. Do you consider approved tests by the European Union, which enable us to have data very quickly, which we can use to take measures at local level, unreliable? 99% precision test? Do you consider that it is not useful to be able to conclude epidemiologically and monitor the course of the pandemic? Why, with your speech at the moment, are you undermining a national effort that is being done, so that we can convince our fellow citizens to come to the points where we are doing the tests, so that we can have enough random sampling so that we can draw conclusions? Greece is on the average. Look over here. Mr. Blonde won't tell you any different. He's a serious man. He'll tell you the same thing. Greece is on the European Union's average test.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u62	Mr. President, four thousand...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u63	Please, Mr. Giannoulis!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u64	Mr Giannoulis, between your point of view and the ECDC, I think everyone will look after the ECDC, not yours. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] That's not my evidence. It's European. So the tests are useful and I will ask you once again to support the effort we are making, because in this way we can only actually identify epidemics in their origins and take restrictive measures soon, so that we do not then have to take horizontal measures, which obviously have great social and economic costs. I now come to the issue of vaccination. If I understood correctly, the criticism of the whole of the opposition - I have listened carefully to Mrs Gennamas - is why we are not going any faster. Let us go as quickly as possible with the doses that we receive. You know very well that the vaccines we are currently making are transfusions. Therefore, we cannot spend all the vaccines that we have at our disposal today.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u65	We know that, Mr President. We told you guys that you had vaccines to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u66	Wait a minute, Mrs. Gennamas. I'll explain exactly what I mean. We cannot spend all the vaccines we have today, because we do not know for sure whether companies can keep up with the traditions that they have committed themselves to. Today, I've just heard, unfortunately...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u67	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u68	Wait till you hear it. PFIZER has informed the European Union and all the Member States that, unfortunately, we will receive fewer vaccines than we had planned for next month. All European countries. If we had moved forward at a much more rapid rate and anticipated that we would receive PFIZER's vaccines, there was a serious risk that we would not have the second dose to those who did the first. So you understand that this is a complex exercise and I have every reason, Mrs Gennamas, to proceed as quickly as possible. In this we will agree, but we cannot jeopardise the availability of the second dose, and I cannot be sure at the moment about the insecurity that exists in the logistics chain that companies will meet the commitments they have made to us for the number of vaccines they will deliver to us. I now come to a broader issue concerning the European negotiation and the attitude of other Member States, to respond to Mr Varoufakis, who also made a reference to Germany's position in particular. Look at that, the European Union has indeed delayed the authorisation of the two vaccines that have been approved at European level. That's one truth. It has been delayed by Europe, although all of us, and at Council level, have urged the Commission to move faster. You understand that twenty-seven drug organisations are involved, it is more severely bureaucratic for Europe to approve a vaccine than it is for any independent state, such as the United States or the United Kingdom. But I want to be quite clear. If there are countries - and it turns out - that have violated the European agreement and purchased additional vaccines at the expense of the other Member States, that is absolutely decriminable and will be politically condemned if it is confirmed. It hasn't been confirmed yet. I am very specific, I am referring to Germany, because there is this rumour that Germany has bought additional doses beyond and above the European framework. It is something the European Commission is investigating. I have asked a clear question and have not yet received a clear answer as to whether this is true. If it is true, and I deplore it, it will certainly be a blow to the effort of European solidarity by the largest European country, if it is shown that the single framework has been violated. I'm sure it'll be an act that's convicted. From there on, however, the vaccination schedule can only proceed on the basis of available vaccines. And obviously we have not yet opened up all vaccination centres, because quite simply we do not currently have enough vaccines to make use of them. You will know, Mrs Gennamas, that the vaccine 'PFIZER' must be stored at extremely low temperatures. This makes the supply chain very complicated. We are therefore not going to send a limited number of vaccines to points which they cannot subsequently use if we are not entirely sure that these vaccines will be used and no dose will be lost. In any case, I will accept that the subject of future criticism, because today we are about on the European average, after 15 days of vaccination, will be the speed of vaccination. I think we all have every reason to agree that the sooner we inoculate the population, the sooner we build the wall of immunity. But there is one reality, which is about the availability of vaccines in itself, and that is where we are dependent on the agreements we have made at European level. Since Mr Tsipras was also mentioned in the most important debate on the European patent, this is news last year, Mr Tsipras. Europe has decided to move differently and to buy vaccines from companies centrally. What you did not say is that your proposal to produce, supposedly, vaccines in Greece, having guaranteed the European patent, because that is what you said outside the Presidential Palace, is a completely inapplicable proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u69	Did I talk about Greece? Read our proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u70	I'll talk to you later. After all, the Greek pharmaceutical industry itself has come and explained to you why this cannot be done. So let us be a little more careful when you throw fireworks at a difficult time, where we all have to inform the Greek people clearly and above all, with persuasiveness. So I would like to say again that going back to the most difficult time of the pandemic that has been in the period of November and December, it is wrong for us to do so. I never refused in this Chamber that November was extremely difficult. We all know that. And we know how traumatic and painful it is for all of us to see the numbers of our intertwined and fellow citizens who are losing their lives going up day by day. I mentioned, ladies and gentlemen, that it was after November and December and January and that today we finally managed to control this second wave. And that is what now allows our experts to consent and allow the retail trade to be opened throughout the country. This is the decision, which I have just been informed that the Committee of Experts has taken. On a weekly basis we will monitor the data and it is certainly an important breath, overall for the economy, that we can come back with very strict protection measures in a context of economic normality. We have all tried together to control the sharp second wave, so that we can get to the point of reopening economic activity with a great deal of attention. But I still want to be quite clear. Any opening, whether it is open to schools or open to economic activities - opening up of a retail trade - poses a number of risks. So far, we have no substantial indication that the retail trade has made a substantial contribution to the virus's transmission when it was open. The best proof for this is the supermarkets, which were working throughout the six months. So far, we haven't managed to locate any strings that are related to supermarkets, either to workers or supermarket customers. And that is something that is extremely encouraging. You have repeatedly spoken about public transport, and you tell us that we have done absolutely nothing, when we have told you and made public many times about how many buses have been added to Athens and Thessaloniki. [[Noise in the Chamber from the wing of SYRIZA]] Especially for Thessaloniki, you should be very careful, because we all know the terrible situation in which you gave us OSH with few buses, which at the moment we have actually strengthened and we will strengthen even more. However, since we want to talk about scientific data and you insist, Mr Tsipras, that you speak of our fellow citizens who are stacked in public transport, I must tell you that there has been no scientific research linking a rapid spread of the virus to the media. If there is, we're here to see and evaluate her. But as a scientist, as a graduate of the Polytechnic, as a man who should support his analysis in real facts, let us finally agree and let us inform the Greek society where the real dangers are. Obviously and wherever there is any crowd, there are some dangers. That is why we are so insisting on using the mask at distances. That is why we are saying that, when it opens up with the retail trade, we must all be double careful. And it is not certain at the moment that the opening of the retail trade will not be accompanied by an increase in cases. The honest answer is that we do not know. The answer, however, is that on the basis of the data we have today, experts consider that it is a reasoned risk that we can take. Therefore, instead of coming to this Chamber and exchanging categories, often without arguments and without evidence, let us all join in here with society itself, which at the moment perceives the need to return to economic normality, but knows at the same time that, throughout this period and until we build the immunity wall, we should be careful and careful twice. And the truth is - and that is where I will agree with Mr Varoufakis - that not all vaccinations are of the same importance as our fellow citizens' future burden and the possibility of them being nursed. The reason why we start from the older and the most vulnerable is precisely because they disproportionately burden the National Health System. So there is no immunity wall that we need to build. There are essentially two walls of immunity. One and the self-evident immunity wall is when we arrive to have vaccinated 60% -70% of all the Greek population, so that we can safely say that we left the pandemic behind. There is also a second immunity wall, but in which we can get to the earliest and which may be more important, and this is about the vaccination of our fellow citizens who, if they get sick, have an increased chance of getting to the hospital, the non-genital, of losing their lives. That is why we are so insisting on the vaccination of the elderly and the most vulnerable. I can assure you that we will do everything in our power to do the vaccines that we have at our disposal as quickly as possible, not only in the centres that we have launched, but - as I have said - in mass vaccination centres. In the first phase, we're going four. If we're judging that they need more, we're here to fix them. It is something that we have designed, that is something that we can implement and in this effort we should all be partners and all sick. Of course, in insinuation and doubts, Mr Velopoulos, about the effectiveness and safety of vaccines, let us be a little careful. I understand why you want to close your eye on the anti-invasives. It is an audience politician that may be of interest to you, but you must not forget that apart from those who are absolutely determined not to make the vaccine - and it is their right obviously, we have said that the vaccine will not be mandatory - there is also a significant proportion of our fellow citizens who are currently having reservations and whom we must convince, on the basis of real facts and not by reproducing internet rumours, only to make your own party exploitation.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u71	Mr Alexis Tsipras, Chief of Officerial Response and Chairman of the Parliamentary Group Radical Left - Progressive Alliance are now called for his own denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u72	Listening to Mr Mitsotakis' second speech, I imagine not only myself, but also the majority of the citizens, the main feeling was insecurity, because I saw a Prime Minister who has lost his temper and with a speech of dissatisfactory, aggressive, no cooling began to attack the anti-population parties. The JRC left it, I don't know, maybe by mistake. I'm sure if Mr. Koutsubas was here, and you'd attack him. We have heard you attack, saying, that we are not telling you proposals, that we are criticising you, while you have done everything right, and you have, say, done an excellent job, and we are the ones who do not understand it. And I remembered a nice expression we used to speak of inner-party processes, those who have passed through the Communist Party will remember it: "My God, guardian of criticism, because from self-criticism I am guarded by myself." Guard you from criticism, for from self - criticism you have a way: you do not make self - criticism. You're doing all right! And you have reached the point of raising so much tons that it is obvious that it is inappropriate for a man who currently has the great responsibility. To you the clergy received, so are things in life. When you're a prime minister, you might find yourself in the face of difficult situations. And the attitude, the style and the way you are dealing with the debate in Parliament betrays to me the concern that you are at a very high level of pressure, so you don't have a clear mind to make decisions. You said here that we are vulgar because we told you that it is not possible to come and bring us maps to show us that the five thousand dead are green and that it was a success. So how many dead do you think it's a failure? And you tell us it's vulgar what we do and not what you do. In this way, I am frankly speaking - it is outside the context of logic at this time that you choose to raise the tons in this way and, in fact, in an anti-population that is all over the critical issues - the most crucial issue of all, you know, is that of convincing our fellow citizens about the need for restrictive measures and the need for vaccination, this is the most crucial issue facing a government in the situation of pandemic - not only has put back on it, but we were all exemplary. And you come to make comparisons and say: 'Yes, but in Europe...'. Have you heard your counterparts in Europe how they respond and how they address citizens? Not by moving the finger. Did you hear Chancellor Merkel's letter on New Year's Eve that spoke about the great difficulties? Did you hear statements from other your counterparts talking about errors and omissions and failure? There can be no success throughout Europe when we have this number of dead. But you speak here with arrogance, aggression, and a divisional style. In any case, my greatest concern came from your statement now, that we do not know whether the companies will meet the deadlines. And two days ago, I was listening to you at the interview you gave to Mr Hatzinikolaou, saying in a categorical way, as in the statement you made from Portugal, that we have been oversufficiency in vaccines and that the deadlines will be respected and that you do not worry and that by the end of March we will have inoculated two million people. And today you come and say that we are not inoculated, because we do not have vaccines and we do not know whether the deadlines will be met. And you are attacking us when we say: 'Take initiatives in Europe to solve this issue'. It was - it says - 'last year' the letter you sent along with Mr Mosillo on the patent issue. What 'last year'? Here's the problem. And the problem, obviously, is not just Greek. It is a European problem. When Europe is facing a whole - obviously also Greece - a crucial issue with the adequacy of vaccines, you cannot come and attack us when we table a proposal and say to you: 'Take a European initiative'. Come and talk about it, not attack. I don't know if you've understood. I think it was interestingly said by Mrs Gennimatas and Mr Varoufakis on the issue of vaccinations. Time - I told you too - is a critical size. Because if we succeed in the next three months, which are the critical winter months, which each virus has a very increased contagiousness - obviously also the coronary - to inoculate at least the people who are in great danger, in the high-risk zone of death, because they are old, if we succeed, the sooner we can, the more people we will save, they will be kept alive. Because the mortality rate of over seventy years of age, over sixty-five years, is too high. So the sooner the vaccination is done, the more people we save. So it is nonsense to say and say that you do not worry, we have sufficient vaccines because we have bought enough, and they will spare us, and then come to Parliament and say, I am not sure that the companies will stick to their agreements on delivery deadlines. Because the question is to inoculate quickly, not to inoculate and have 'cava' - and even hypothetical - vaccines at the end of the year for next year. People will be lost from it. Insecurity I felt listening to you. And of course the same criticism is constantly being made to prove that you have done so extremely, and we were the ones who did not strengthen the National Health System. Mr. Mitsotakis, we have not ruled in pandemic conditions. In fact, we have ruled in extremely unfavourable budgetary conditions. We pulled the country out of the memorandum. We had the troika above our head being on the whip - and the previous governments, I do not confront, but listen to my argument - and they say: you must have 3.5% surplus. But previous Memorandum governments proceeded to a body of redundancies. There created the huge deficit that exists today in medical and health staff as a whole and in nurses in public hospitals. They put five euros in the front door. We had another policy. With great difficulty we have succeeded and increased the budget. We have managed and given free access to health to millions of our insecure fellow citizens. We managed and increased by a hundred and twenty beds. That's what we did during the memorial period. You, Mr Mitsotakis, always welcome, celebrate the results of the increase in beds, which you also inflate, because you put on the same list and public hospitals and private hospitals, private beds, military, but it doesn't matter. But all this happened after the pandemic. Please tell me: Did you even a bed, even a bed for intensive treatment, increase from 8 July when you came to the government until the beginning of March 2020 when the pandemic began? From July 8, 2019 until early March 2020, even a bed - a bed! - You've increased? Oh, no! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And you obviously did not increase because your programme, which you came to the elections, was the privatisation of hospitals, public-private partnerships and you wanted to change legal persons, make them legal entities. That's your program! Are you swinging the finger here to us? What do you want to compare? That you suddenly joined opinions of socialist, social democratic, while you have been the main expression of the neoliberal current of ideas in the political life of the country for years? That's what you're talking about, sometimes proudly. Now what's got into you? In any case, someone should inform you because I am actually in hospitals all the time, I am visiting - not for other reasons thankfully - and I have been talking all the time with workers, with administrations - all people are doing an extremely difficult job these hours - and obviously with doctors and nurses, not in a health insurance environment, with police officers keeping the trade unions away. I'm talking to everyone, and I hear criticism, and I hear about our things. You do not hear that because we said that you are intolerant of criticism. Clean the space before visiting. Once or twice you've visited. So what's your name? That they are happy, that you have not paid overtime, that you have not given an allowance, that you have created two speeds to people, to pay, when you invited private doctors to take 2,000 clean, and the rest of them to be from morning to night and give the battle to the frontline and take 1,200 of the subsidiary and when all you did was to proceed to an announcement of permanentization only of the subsidiary, who are inside the ICUs? Like the other subsidiary or nurses who are on the TLP, the Emergency Departments, or are in a CIVID clinic, are not confronted with the virus, they are not in the front line of war, battle! You probably don't have the idea of what's going on in hospitals, and you've got the swollenness to come swinging our fingers! Of course, you said something right and then you said a big mistake. The right thing to do? That there is a problem in finding specific qualifications. There's no offer. So you said that there is this issue with anaesthetics, which is a specific speciality, and that there is also for nurses. Well, it's not like that. Obviously, the nurses are no problem. We can find it. But what's the matter here? And to discuss this issue seriously, in substance. How can that change? How can this problem of supply be tackled in specific specialties? That's not the problem now, it's older, I'll take it. I, as Prime Minister, visited Germany, Sweden, Great Britain and was told by the Greek communities that if you go to public hospitals in these countries, you hear doctors speaking Greek, our children from public universities, who leave abroad as scientists. In my opinion, this problem is only tackled through substantial reconstruction, support, upgrading and strengthening of the National Health System that does not only pass through the beds of the ICM, but also through recruitment and through the change of wages and the creation of incentives for doctors, young scientists not to leave our country and go abroad, but to stay in the National Health System. Are you prepared for the first time to have such a very substantial debate? Are you prepared to proceed consensually, if you want, to upgrade the payroll, give incentives, strengthen with doctors, strengthen staff? Oh, no. No, because it's not on your schedule. Your program is to give possibilities to private nurses. After all, for this reason, you left them out of pandemic and didn't open them when Thessaloniki was stenose and we had reached 100% completeness in intensive care units in public hospitals and left the large private units intact, closed, not to accept COVID incidents. And when you opened up some small, under pressure, you didn't send a single incident to them, you only paid badly. Because that's your idea. And so does Mrs. Kerameo with colleges, which is the Minister of Colleges and not education. Within one night he brought the amendment here to equate the degree of engineer and economist and be able to enter the Technical Chamber and the Chamber of Economics from three-year-old college graduates. For these interests, you work. That is your ideology, of course, all right, but do not present us here and the Socialist, Mr Mitsotakis. Mercy! Let's move on. You referred to rapid test and PCR. I wouldn't answer, but I think that's crucial. I'm not talking about the attack you've made on me. Please talk to serious doctors, infectious and statisticians about this. The way you conduct the detection of the virus in the community is wrong, it leads to the wrong conclusions at the end of the day, to wrong decisions or to wrong advice, even to scientists, because at the moment you are not following the example of other countries both within the European Union and outside the European Union. You know there are some countries that have had very positive effects on the treatment of the virus, but they are not in the European Union. Shouldn't we see what they did there, look for what they did? In South Korea, for example, everyone says it was the leading treatment of pandemic through massive and targeted tests to detect the incubation outbreak and local lockdown where there is a problem. When you go through the random sampling method you will not really find out where the virus is or have a full picture of the country's cargo, so scientists will either tell you anything or tell you things that will not be targeted. As to the subject of molecular tests and rapid test, why are you paraphrasing what I said? I didn't say rapid test was useless. However, I said that the proportion in daily sampling should be clearly in favour of molecularities. I'm not a doctor, I'm a political engineer, I've studied, but these days I've been talking to scientists. The sensitivity of PCR tests is 95%, of rapid test is 70%. That's what he says.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u73	They have 99% sensitivity.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u74	Okay. Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u75	Don't make him say inaccurate. You're exposing him with what you're telling him, Mr. Xanthi.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u76	You get low positive rates with reduced susceptibility tests. That's the poaching.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u77	You're exposing him with what you're telling him.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u78	All right, Mr. Mitsotakis, you haven't been exposed at all these days and hours. May Mr. Blondie expose me with what he tells me. In any case, if you have a different view, if you have a documented different position, say it. But I would like you to make a comparison, because, you know, it is very important and how much overall you test to measure cases, which I said in my first speech. Because I cannot accept that Greece has such a large number of deaths per case, per case number. When you underestimate the number of cases, due to the inability to identify the tests and have no overall picture, then you can find yourself in such oximous phenomena. See, for example, the number of mortality in a set of cases that Portugal has and see the number, the percentage that Greece has. It is three and twice as much as the European average. That's what they say. But let's go further. Mr. Mitsotakis, you referred to the issue of Thessaloniki by once again allowing me the term "storage", to refer to your position in the House by putting responsibility in the opposition. The opposition, in other words, did not tell you, the parties did not tell you to close down, the parties that do not have the image of the epidemiological burden, nor even official access to the meetings of the Committee on Infectiouss, because you strongly refuse to give the minutes to the political parties, to have an image, to read. And I'm not saying you're going to give it to the public. Tell me why you deny that? What are you afraid of? I understand an opinion that says that if they are made public in the media, they may pose a risk of being terrorized by citizens, etc. Yes, sir! The representatives of the parties therefore have the opportunity to have access to them. You don't want that either. So your fear is not about informing the citizens. Your fear is that if we look at the great contradictions of your political decisions, because your tactics throughout this period are to put responsibilities on the Committee on Infectiouss to get rid of your own political responsibilities. So in Thessaloniki, you said in the interview you gave Mr. Hadinikolaou that we had no picture, because here's the case curve. In mid-November, there was an increase in the incidence curve, where would we know what was going on? On October 15, the cases were fifty-six. On October 20th was a hundred twenty-five, more than double. Didn't you have a picture? And of course, on October 31st, they reached eight hundred thirty-nine. I leave the Georgian statements, who either has told the very truth, so I think the prosecutor will have a lot of work to do, or once again he said one of his well-known nonsense in the media, in the television windows and you hesitate to say so. Say it! Say he said something stupid. You can't cover him, but at the same time it's all right, it's all right. Mr. Mitsotakis, I feel that the basic way, your basic concern, the basic method for dealing with pandemic is not prevention, but repression. I say this because where you are very effective, very decisive and strict are in measures and in their compliance. Perhaps this is wrong with Mr Contozamanis and Mr Kikilia, but rather the pandemic is treated with Mr Chrysochide and not with the Minister of Health. I say this because today you have announced that the individual fine for the infringement of measures goes from EUR 300 to EUR 500. And I wonder what exactly this decision serves. Is it a question of money not complying with the measures? Is a small fine of EUR 300 for the average citizen, and now that it is stricter, more expensive, it will keep up with them? It is not a question of lack of confidence in you, but it is a matter of a small fine of EUR 300. Do you have a picture of what it means to a worker who, with your support measures, takes EUR 534 for a time failure, for example, who can be found to go home at 21.20' at home, has to pay 500 euros, while taking 534 to make the month? Do it 534, don't let 500, so you don't have and take, give what it takes so much to give. Is that reasonable? I don't get it. All right, for you perhaps the Parnitha's 'nave', the EUR 500 if you were paying it - which you will not pay for - may not say anything - and I do not say it for you, for us who are here in Parliament - because we have a monthly salary that we can pay 500 euros. You know, however, as you have seen in your position on television, that the overwhelming majority - you made a discovery and good - of the Greeks are 'dependent' on their wages and are 'dependent' and on the allowance of many, the allowance of 534. It's not true what's true about us. So I cannot understand this decision and I think it is not an individual decision, but it marks the spirit with which you are dealing with things. It marks, if you like, the sense of injustice that currently exists in the majority of Greek citizens. Two yards and two weights. A general sense of injustice. The average citizen feels suffocating, because to go to the kiosk he should send sms and when the time is 21.00' he can't go, because if he goes he will have to pay 500 euros fines. At the same time, though, when he can't go to the kiosk, he doesn't care much about the money can go or he can also have Christmas holidays in Dubai, as if nothing happens, and when he comes home to sit at home for a weekend, and if he sits. Because you promised you'd put quarantine on, but you didn't, just two or three days. This is the feeling, the sense of injustice that the average citizen feels today. We are not telling you that measures are not useful and necessary. They need to be, but they must apply to everyone, and not increase the fine to the poor people and be comfortable and unaccompanied to those who move us and the finger, taking Christmas holidays to the chili and bringing the coronary, possibly, some of them. I would like to say a few words, because I promised it, on the issue of the economy. It was extremely sensible to formulate a little what you are doing to the economy, that is, your decision not to go ahead with forward support measures, with vaccination. It's just the same nonsense to have a large number of vaccines and say we're not in a hurry. You say the same thing to the economy: we are not in a hurry, we will waste it in the future, we will spend it in the future. And for those who can't understand that, I'm going to give another example, the example of a vehicle that's on the move. As long as it's on the move, it's much easier to push it, to go faster. When it is stopped it is much greater the force that is required, and how much more when it is beginning to come back. That is the way the economy is, and that is the case with small and medium-sized enterprises. That is why we have talked about the need for forward support measures. We would need much less to spend to keep the Greek economy moving.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u79	When the car moves, you don't have to push it, it goes alone.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u80	Here we are doctors and engineers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u81	You were admiral, as far as I know, so for the sea to talk and not for cars.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u82	And mayor successful.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u83	And mayor, yes. So we can talk about wastewater treatment, maybe. The economy will therefore be the big debate over the next few months after the beginning of the end and not the end of the pandemic, because the World Health Organization told us that we are not ending with the pandemic in 2021. It will be the big issue, because the citizens will find themselves in an absolute vacuum, especially small and medium-sized enterprises. It is small and medium-sized enterprises that have paid the heaviest price and will pay even more over the next period. And, of course, when small and medium-sized enterprises pay the price, it is also paid by the workers who work in it. They're thousands and they'll find themselves unemployed when the locks come one after the other. In 2020 we had the deepest recession in Europe. And, of course, your argument is interesting. "But there's pandemic everywhere. Mitsotakis is the pandemic?’ Yes, there is a pandemic everywhere, but there are comparisons. Everywhere they had a pandemic in Europe, but they had no deeper recession everywhere. This is where we had. In any case, we are extremely concerned that hundreds of thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises and workers will be in a state of suffocation. It is worth a minute to tell you the figures presented by the Athens Chamber of Commerce. It says that nine out of ten firms employing up to six workers are already making serious losses. Four out of ten companies in the catering industry and commerce are very likely to close. We're talking four out of ten! Half the business in the focus will be forced to lay off. Three out of ten companies are unable to satisfy accumulated debts. Within the pandemic, they say, new debts to taxi and insurance funds amounting to EUR 8.5 billion have been created, while their previous "free" debts to banks are EUR 30 billion. All this, in fact, at a time when this year's Christmas, the turnover was reduced by 70% to the retail trade, according to their figures. Look, Mr. Mitsotakis, these are really tragic elements. Honestly, I cannot understand your importance in this climate for you to come and vote here for the new Banking Code that you have already presented as the great second chance. But since this is the big second chance, why do you train it all the time and take extras and don't give us this second chance? Your hypocrisy is great. In fact, it is not only the Banking Code, which, in any case, even if it applies June, will be extremely unfavourable in a climate of packeting and economic suffocation for the market, the small and medium-sized enterprises, the businessmen, but Mr Tsiaras has already come here in secret - and that is what I would point out to you, namely, that you have come to the mosquitos, such as Mrs Keramea, to make the rosette to the 'collegears' - with an amendment which, in fact, you are flying outside the protection of those who have recourseed to the Katseli law and are waiting for judicial decisions. You have chosen in these circumstances to lift their protection and, in fact, when we caught you with the sprout on your back, the relevant SYRIZA director Mr Ahtsioglou came out and made a statement and made a statement on several newspapers front page the subject - this is a serious issue - tens of thousands - of you have come here again in secret to bring an amendment of fifteen days in order to make it possible for these people to get into a platform that asks them for a load of things to get in the next fifteen days. I think that this is a very serious matter and I would like you to explain some of this in your tripartite way, because it is not possible in conditions of dissolution of the economy that you do not shield those people who in accumulated debts are now seeing the debts of the coronary. We demand that you stop this inadmissible manipulation. And because you have told us that we are not putting forward proposals - obviously you are not listening to them - I would like to repeat three proposals, critical, concerning the economy and, in particular, entrepreneurship. The first concerns the conversion of the repayable aid to a non-refundable beneficiary. Oak if you're a owl than you don't have. Talk to professional associations, tradesmen, trade unions, their representatives. Talk. Many of them belong to your party, they will tell you. The second and most critical is the prospect of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship in the country, if you do not think it is an opportunity to eliminate it. Go on to the overall regulation of private debt in the standards of regulation that we have just made from the memoranda and concerned the insurance funds and we have done it for entrepreneurs, small and medium-sized enterprises and the self-employed. It provided for a hundred twenty doses and partial deletion of the basic debt. Set up cover for insurance contributions to maintain jobs and employment relationships and for the period after the lockdown has been lifted. And you finally withdraw this bankruptcy law, instead of giving it lasting extensions, because as long as it lasts - and it will last several months, perhaps several years - the economic crisis will be the 'floorstone' for small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. So listen to these positions and proposals, because you will find them in front of you anyway. I'll make two non-material remarks and close. Reliability, Mr. Mitsotakis, is a crucial issue. That is the problem and not that you do not have expensive fines. But your credibility as a politician, you and your prolongation, have not only lost it through the management of the pandemic. I saw your very interesting meeting with the Minister of Foreign Affairs of North Macedonia yesterday. You have not even dared to mention the country's name at the previous sitting here in the House and by your irritation you have been beaten with mischiefs to the SYRIZA MP, Mr. Friend. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] So yesterday you said that there was a need for the full implementation of the Prespecies Agreement and for your good. I would remind you that on 25-1-2019 in this Chamber, from this Step as Chief of Representation, you said: 'The Prespecies Agreement is a national defeat. It has already been cancelled in the conscience of the people. It is a national mistake that offends the truth and history of our country." Yesterday you said this and the Foreign Minister tweeted a very interesting one, Mr. Dendias, who wrote: "What is clear in the Prespecies Agreement is clarity about what has happened in antiquity. Your compatriots - referring to the citizens of northern Macedonia - were not in the campaign of Alexander the Great." But when we were here for months defending the truth, because we said that it was national and said that this agreement ensures the ancient cultural heritage of Greek Macedonia you were telling us liars. Today you are rushing with legs and hands to implement this agreement. You're doing good! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] From this Step I told you something: The story honors those who write it, not those who crawl behind it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u84	And now Mrs Fotini Gennamata has the floor for her dentistry, the President of the Parliamentary Group of Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u85	Thank you very much, Mr President. Before I begin, ladies and gentlemen, my dentistry and because we have been informed that Mr Erdogan has expressed his will to meet with Mr Mitsotakis, I would just like to make a comment. Such a meeting could be useful at the right time and with proper preparation so that it does not evolve into fiasco, but with inalienable condition that any provocative action and aggression by Turkey will be stopped at the expense of our country. This is something I think should be agreed on in this Chamber among all the political leaders. I've been going on about the subject we've been discussing since this morning. I really fear that with your obsessions, Mr Mitsotakis, you will repeat the mistakes you have made so far. They are mistakes which unfortunately have painful consequences, tragic consequences. They have cost human lives and of course have a great deal of weight and impact on the country's social and economic life. I'm even more alarmed after what you described us about the vaccines. First of all, I want to make this clear: I have spoken to the Minister for Health and you know that I never speak at random. I always speak with numbers and with substantiated proposals. I know that the government's choice is not to exhaust the vaccines precisely because they need two doses and because you cannot trust at what pace the next ones will come from the companies. I agree that it is right to ensure that there is a second dose for those who have been vaccinated to date. But according to the information you give, you have so far provided two forty-five thousand vaccines and made seventy thousand vaccinations. This means that you have the possibility of at least fifty thousand other people being vaccinated and you have not done it while you could have done it to this day. I'm talking about the vaccines you've said you've received. You said that by the end of this month you would get about another hundred and eighty thousand from PFIZER and I wonder if that's what you're saying you won't get. What you'd get by the end of this month. You talked about the next month. You're talking about the hundred and eighty thousand by the end of this month? Is that gonna be delayed?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u86	That's the picture we've got right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u87	Good. In any case you can speed up for fifty thousand more fellow humans according to what you have already received. That is why I have spoken to you and precisely because it is clear that Immortal immunity is being delayed, which means that we have to correct everything we have identified to date that there have been in dealing with the second wave, because you have first talked about the risk of a third wave. The delay in arrival of vaccines in combination with the risk of a third wave means that the weight, in addition to the rapid vaccination of what we have so far, must be given to the proper organisation of the National Health System, primary health care, tests, proper traceability and all for which we have been insisting. The graph you showed us and your report of the sharp increase in cases in November was completely unfortunate. There's no sharp increase in hospitalized and intubated. There was just a dispersion in the community that missed you. And obviously you missed it because you did much less tests than you needed. You didn't watch and you didn't see the bells on time so you could prepare yourself. That is why we are so persistent today. Let's not see a new increase in cases in the next few months and you're running back to justify unjustified cases. Because the cost will be too great then. So that means we need mass tests. We will not now enter a debate that is scientific. In fact, rapid antigens all say they are effective and reliable. The issue is not the rapids. The issue is the certification of laboratories, because not all rapid antigens do. That's why I talked to you before it was certified. The public makes rapid antigen than I am able to know. But there you are to be judged is in methodology. And I wonder who has recommended this methodology to draw conclusions on the epidemiological burden of each region. Because that's where there's a question. I understand that there are areas where people refuse to take the test, but you need to find other ways, Prime Minister, to have serious epidemiological data and to be able to make serious and reliable decisions, for the measures that have to be taken in good time to protect the health of the population. It should be massive and repeating the tests, and that's not the case. It happens once on the platform, with whomever wants to come and test his luck. So we have no reliable results, and you have to admit that, and you have to see how you fix it. We talked about people who lose their lives many times before reaching the intensive care unit. Apart from the percentages in cases found, which have been mentioned in the debate so far, there is another serious gap and there is no clear instructions for the hospitalization and care of people facing the disease in their homes, so that they often arrive late in hospitals and under very difficult conditions. This is also a huge problem and an empty one you need to fill. Give clear instructions to private pathologists, pneumonologists, who each one of his own tries to understand how to deal with an incident at home before arriving at the hospital. It is often too late, and that is why we have these results. Make sure you support regional hospitals, because there was a huge problem, even with oxygen. You know that too. I told you in my prototype that if mistakes are not recognized now, they will not be corrected. We'll reconvene in front of us, and that's unthinkable when we talk about people's lives. Perhaps I will ask for much from a New Democracy government in relation to the better organization of the National Health System and primary health care. Because you were one of the main fighters of the National Health System. It is no coincidence that public hospitals are absent from the government planning for the allocation of the European Recovery Fund. The proposal by Mr. Doglakas is not included in your design to support the public health system. Your plans have always been the fragmentation of the National Health System and its tradition to private interests. In the face of this plan, there is the plan for the new ESS of the Change Movement, a regenerated national health system that requires, before all, a large increase in funding from both the state budget and the resources of the Recovery Fund. And it is certain that following this crisis experienced by the Greek people, the programme for the new ESS will be central to its choices in the next elections, whenever these are made, Prime Minister. I have confined myself to my prototype - so far in my dentext - on the issues of pandemic, on safe opening, on vaccination and on strengthening the National Health System, because it is obvious that health and life are above all above all. However, all the proposals we have submitted throughout this period, which are very specific, very targeted, are realistic and directly applicable to strengthening society and business. And we will continue to press for them because we do not want to talk about ruins. We've said it too many times. We have a two-digit recession. This means that we will have massive unemployment, we will have padlocks in shops and businesses. When the pandemic retreates, we will be faced with another Greece. Immediate support measures are needed, therefore. What you announced today is very little, too late. We call for very specific interventions, brave measures for retailing and focusing, with 70% non-refundable advance, based on the reduction in business turnover. We ask for courageous regulation, Prime Minister, of business debts. We will not press a button one day and suddenly the businesses that are so many months closed will be able to meet the accumulated obligations of all these months. So we ask: Gentile regulation, a hundred twenty doses, 30% haircut for the consequent ones, and even look at the removal of fines and surcharges for the consequent ones, in the arrangements that will be made. A 100% premium for insurance contributions when businesses open up, so that we do not find ourselves in front of massive unemployment, but with a commitment to respecting the jobs and contracts of workers. Integration into support measures for both farmers and farmers. They are the poor relatives of the system to date. Granting 100% of the employees' wages, with a limit of EUR 1,000 per month to businesses with a government mandate. You referred to the unemployment benefit, but to all unemployed persons registered with the OAS. You are now leaving out of your settings of three hundred forty thousand long-term unemployed and many seasonal tourism. You must finally consult the OAED - the Minister responsible - and give concrete guidance on how your current announcement of the extensions to unemployment benefits will be implemented, in cases where they have already been extended. Do not let people who live on the limits of poverty in the mercy of bureaucracy. No one must remain unprotected at the moment in the crisis. I am returning to the issue of health diseases during the course of their duties from the coronary. There are already some who have lost their lives and there are already some who have suffered significant damage to their health. There is no provision for them to be treated as the victims of a accidents at work and there is a very serious issue for the families of those who have already been lost and for the people who have a problem at the moment and cannot work. We put it to you last time. I saw you mark it. No predictions have been made. It needs immediate regulation. Of course, we need to put an end to cynicism and analgesia. Freeze the auctions now and freeze them by law. Have the courage to bring here the law to the parliament and to vote for it all. Do not hide behind Lockdown's ministerial decisions on the functioning of the courts and directly freeze the auctions in this way. Clear words! Not everything about the banks and the funds. In this situation, can people lose their homes, their first residence? And enough now with n 3869, who also remembered SYRIZA, who never voted for him and only in words remembers him. You have never brought an amendment in writing to ask for it. In any case, we have reached a point where the government should deal with pandemic matters seriously and responsibly. You should assume your responsibilities for the mistakes you have made so far and in time to deal with the problems and gaps that we have all shown you, each one in his way. We're all trying from this step to help for the best. I'm closing down, just like I started my prototype. We're all on the same side. Against death, Prime Minister, we all fight together. He doesn't make choices about who lives and who dies. The agony of all of us and our contribution is to make it with fewer victims, with fewer losses in human lives and fewer ruins in the economy. Listen to us! Adopt positive proposals, correct your mistakes, because these mistakes cost people lives and must not be repeated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u88	The turn is now Mr. Dimitrios Koutsoubas, President of the Parliamentary Group of the Communist Party of Greece for its second language.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u89	The words, Mr. Mitsotakis, have lost their meaning. You are not changing your permanent pattern to say that you have done better than other European Union countries. With this sound argument, you are responding to the criticism we are making because you have not shielded the public health system. Because today we are not in the years of the cholera, which you said in your prototype, Mr Mitsotakis, nor in the years of the cholera, to remember both Gabriel Garcia Marks and his book. We are in the years of the fourth industrial revolution. You were saying the same thing about the period of the first wave of pandemic. But the elements of the second wave have been completely frustrated. The problem, of course, is that the price of your policy has been paid by the Greek people with their health and with their lives, and the sanitaries have paid it in the terrible conditions where they have been called to help in this struggle of life. You have practically disarmed them because of subservation and enormous shortages of equipment. The situation in which northern Greece was found - and not only - speaks for itself. So stop sucking this candy and pretending you don't understand exactly what we're telling you and doing macabre comparisons. If our country differs from other countries in the European Union, that is the struggles that took place to defend the public health system, struggles that were both slandered and slandered and fought, but today it seems their great value, their importance, because if these struggles had not been done too, things would have been much worse. You continue to present your virtual reality, too. We told you that you have made the health system of a disease a year ago, since the increase in hospital beds and ICU beds for Coronovirus patients resulted from their removal from the needs of hospitalisation and treatment of all other diseases. You tried to meet major needs in personnel, not by recruitment, but mostly with healthcare travelers from hospital to city, from region to region. We say this again to you: why do you not take the health workers here and now with a permanent and stable employment relationship at least from the OAED 4000 programme, which for many years have given the battle within the public health system and still hold them hostages, renewing all their contracts and, if they do not risk their health, they do not risk their lives, of course of course and of course of their families on a daily basis? Make a commitment at least to this today after this debate this morning! Again you answer: ‘Where can we get money? There is no money." And to have the good question, how many ICUs, really, could be built and how many doctors could be hired with a Rafale of what you just voted yesterday to buy and get paid badly by the Greek people in the midst of a pandemic, unfortunately, by almost all the other parties of counterpopulation, except CEEC and Mera25? We are not talking about all the Rafale, because for years now, you have been answering the needs of the people, 'there are no leaf trees'. How can these leaf trees be present, for example, when it comes to equipment, which has nothing to do with the real defence of our country and is not available for hospitals, not for doctors, nurses, schools and teachers? Let's go further. Get your hands off workers' working and trade union rights. Stretch the ground to "play ball" the big groups with the hit in the eighth, the swinging of wages, the take-off of shameful well-being, the new changes in insurance, the hit of trade union action. You dare, in fact, announce today that you will put more fines on the workers. You said 500 euros. I mean, you're gonna raise it. Almost a wage. But we have not seen you fined any big business that takes no protection measures for the workers concerned. You don't even control them. You're only chasing the carnivores. You've been taking repressive action and policing measures at the universities that you've been holding up for a year. At the same time, the government made public and this new reactionary bill - Chrysochoid. It's reactionary, it's unfair - we say it again - that the university function is under constant surveillance. It is reactive to identify collectively determined forms of struggle between students, workers and universities with various violations, which are also exceptions and completely marginal. It is reactive and unfair to enter other barriers to youth studies, forced to work to get through them and their families. It is completely reactive, except unfairly, to announce changes in the way you access the HEIs, putting more obstacles to children, restricting students' choices. You're hypocritically crying about their educational level, but you and the previous ones have had it and become even worse, psychofluorinated exam center. You know that reaction and injustice can only temporarily prevail. They never do, because there is resistance, there are democratic collective procedures, there are struggles. Ladies and gentlemen, recently there have been various 'good' negotiations with the pharmaceuticals industry, for the purchase of patents from other countries to increase the production of vaccines. We've heard it here today a little bit. The patent, gentlemen of SYRIZA, goes together, you know, with the ownership of monopolies of drug and vaccine, research, production, distribution, sale of these goods. You know that, of course. As always for everything, however, you invent proposals corresponding to "and to "the whole pie and the dog full". You don't have brains. We're telling you right from here. You were not taught anything by your previous governmental term, which in this logic of "speakings" you were going and brought back memorials, like the previous ones from you. Unfortunately, this ability is advertised and obviously also anticipated by some groups. You are laughing once again at the world that the European Union and the market can act on the basis of the people's real interests. We, however, Mr Mitsotakis, are not SYRIZA, who today, through his President, whistled indifferently when you said to him: “What are you asking? Statements?’. Yeah, we're saying they're going to be stalled, clean and clean. Here, too, we tell the Greek people. To socialize the pharmaceutical industries, we say, because this is the only way that the medicine can actually be made public, not a commodity, as it is today. Indeed, your responsibility is so great, ladies and gentlemen of the government, for the elderly you are giving yourself, namely the individual responsibility of supportive people, to see that they are moved to vaccination themselves. You are basically ensuring that these people cannot be vaccinated, since many of them live on their own or more have multiple health problems. Where is the staffing of the health centers you should do? Where is the creation and staffing of mobile units for home-based vaccination? We have, however, forgotten that this is always a cost to you. Your so-called social state considers it a cost. Instead of adjusting the health system to the people's needs, you do it backwards. You adapt and corner the needs of our people to the limits of this limited and huge health system, which all of you have put your hand in order to create. As much as they bother you, no matter how much you like what we tell you, we are here to perform this role. The KEI is the soul, it is the heart and mind of the hard-tested by your policies of the Greek people, who continue to fight and stand in very difficult conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, too, for the accuracy of the time. Mr Velopoulos, President of the Greek Parliamentary Group, is on the way.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u91	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to start by - the Prime Minister is not here - giving him some advice that I took from Lao Ce. "It is the best leader that others even understand his existence. When the work is done and the target is achieved, they will say 'we did it ourselves, we all together'. In his denture, the Prime Minister also exceeded himself, the worst old-fashioned Prime Minister we could see. We're all here to give him proposals. He was shaking the finger at every party leader and unleashing reproach in a way that I did not expect him, because I believe that the Greek Prime Minister is both a decent and a new politician. Unfortunately, however, it crossed the line. And I say it with a lot of sympathy, although it is missing. Leaving waste peaks, showing with the finger - and I shall refer to us - the Greek Solution, a party which has never given any ground at least within Parliament, that it does not argue, a party which the New Democracy often copys - and it is good to some extent because it accepts proposals - but that the Prime Minister speaks of a vote in relation to the vaccine, in relation to life and death, that is, I think it is a gravel on his part. Mr. Mitsotakis, you are not here, but "the house of the hanged man is not talking about rope". And I say it for everyone in the New Democracy. He speaks of the New Democracy and the Prime Minister - now listen - for a alleged vote on our part when his own party election on the scorpion called the "prostitutes" the symposia and today applies faithfully the Ambassadors' Agreement that is treacherous with alpha and omega. It's a shame to speak New Democracy! [[Stand Members of the Greek Solution applaud vividly and protractedly]] The New Democracy and the Prime Minister, who electionly accused SYRIZA of having a luxurious cabinet, said and pledged to the Greek people that he would have twenty-five ministers and he has fifty-nine. The prime Prime Minister, who is at the service of daily, voter, post-call employees everywhere, because he wants legions and praetorians for the next day of the election so that he can be re-elected, speaks of a vote. So is the New Democracy speaking and I ask its good voters and the Members of the New Democracy: are they in agreement with Mr. Tentacles' statement, which he stressed that there is and must be full and faithful implementation of the 'historic' Prespecies Agreement? "Trust" became "historical"! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] So if we talk about a vote, I'll tell him very popular, because I'm from a village. I'm from Giannitson, half of my father and old Mylopotus from my mother. I'll tell him peasant and folk. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, 'Don't scratch on the sack of tsapani'! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Get the 500 euros fine back that I've revealed now! And I am sure the Prime Minister will get it back today. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] I think we all agree in here, even the Members of Parliament, that EUR 500 is a fine to a Greek who takes EUR 435, and if he takes it - the fourth hour is not so - and lives on allowances, it is an unbearable amount. I say this and repeat that in Germany it is EUR 90 and 150 in the Netherlands. And we said it first, and we denounced it from here. I had come calmly, just to make constructive criticism. Unfortunately, the Greek Prime Minister left once again peaks that we used online data. If it suits the New Democracy to only give it to SKAI, it's wrong. SCAI is their channel. All day and all night, what the New Democracy says is reproducible anyway. It's their right. Let the money be good, Mrs. Gennamas. It's a lot of money. It's millions of euros. ALAVANOS (CG). — (GR) Mr President, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report. What's going on? You don't even go outside, do you? Because it's forbidden, too. No, nothing else. We're not even going through it. Only the New Democracy. In other words, from Syngrou and right, the labels write "New Democracy to SKAI", so that its MPs don't get lost, because they go daily. I therefore have the publication 'BLOOMBERG' in front of me. Not SKAI, BLOOMBERG! ‘Twenty-three dead - thirteen in autopsy, the reasons - after the vaccine are investigated.’. It's the first element. I'll testify for the Minutes. We're on the Internet, huh? Embryo in Israel. ‘Jerusalem Post’, Israel's leading newspaper. ‘Bird persons with facial paralysis following the vaccine’. I'm going to testify this for the Minutes too. I didn't want to escalate, Prime Minister. Welcome. But you're going to force me to file the evidence. The head of the Public Health Services of the Ministry of Health, Sharon Wright Price said an hour ago, says - the post "Jerusalem Post", which I will be tabling here again - this: "17% of the serious patients currently in hospital are patients who did the vaccine." It's today's publication. "Four and a half thousand people have been diagnosed with coronary after receiving the first dose, three hundred and seventy-five have been diseased because of the disease. Two hundred forty - four are hospitalized in the first week after vaccination, one hundred and twenty - four in the second week. Seven patients 15 days after receiving the vaccine.’; The expert, the Chiodra of Israel, is man. And they've taken vaccines. And they've made massive vaccines. Don't tell me they have no side effects. I'm not saying it's dangerous, but at least I don't say it's safe when I see there are side effects. And I can't drive a people to make a vaccine when I have this reservation. And I repeat: the Greek Solution will never do, nor will it plunder. He will always argue, always make suggestions well, Prime Minister. Good luck always. And you see we're very careful. In Brazil a volunteer died. The Brazilian Health Service announced it. Publication of the 'Washington Post', not Velopoulos. "First Theme", your newspaper, Prime Minister, your site. "First Lies" are basically, but anyway. I invoke "First Lie" yours. He says: "Nurse positive to COVID three weeks after vaccination with the vaccine "PFIZER". Here's the post. I have tabled all this because I did not want to mention in detail the reservation, which is reasonable, from our point of view. It's not my view. We have Mrs. Athanasios, who is an excellent doctor. We have doctors in our party, ladies and gentlemen, who tell us the same thing. If you're not sure 100%, you can't go out - a political person, a party president, Prime Minister - to drive the Greek people by barely going to vaccine. And since it is optional, Prime Minister, why did you send the letter to the European Union? You tell me. If you want it to be optional. Optional with certification that I made the vaccine, it doesn't exist. There isn't! It will either be optional or compulsory. Decide to learn the Greek people as well. I repeat that everyone's body is his. He said the Prime Minister - I listened carefully, I wish - "I hope Germany will not be offended". The Prime Minister must have good information. Prime Minister, you have bad information. No offense. He's got vaccines. I'm related to Germany. Apparently, I know Germany better than you. He got more vaccines. And you said that if it were proved, the European Commission would decide. Will they "da" them? What will they do to them? Merkel? Germany? One believes in here that the Germany of 'diesel-get' can be punished, Germany of Deutsche Bank with leverage, with the greatest corruption in Europe, which if you go EUR 1 million to a German bank doesn't control you from where you found it. He does not ask for "outside you". Madam Gennamas, if you take tomorrow 1 million euros - you don't, I imagine, but I say - or 10 million euros in suitcases and go testify, the German bank won't ask you where you came from. Here, if the Greek goes 100 euros or 200 or 500 or 1,000, they'll ask him where he got it from. If, then, the Prime Minister thinks that we can make a serious consensus policy and a world dialogue, he is wrong. The finger cannot move to any of us, because neither Mrs. Genuine asked, nor Mr. Tsipras asked, nor Mr. Koutsouba, nor Mr. Varoufakis, nor I ever asked the Prime Minister and the Government what our proposal was, even by correspondence. I'm not saying gathering. There's a coronary. Don't stick to each other. By mail, though. Let me say: 'Send me the suggestions in writing.' He never did. I heard the strange thing today: In supermarkets, he says, it doesn't fit. The buses don't fit. There are studies, he says. It doesn't fit. Studies didn't bring us. I give him evidence and he questions them. How can I not question the evidence he's telling me? Does it fit in the retail trade if it doesn't fit in the supermarkets? Is the hunting stuck? Is it fishing sticking? Is she stuck in the churches? Are there any studies for all this? Oh, no. How, then, can I accept without studies what the government tells me, which, as it suits it, tells me about the studies? Prime Minister, I behave in passing, please very much command your services to return the wrongs of the hunters back. They paid insanely to get a hunting permit. It's 150, 200 euros, Prime Minister. It's two hundred thousand people. You took the paradoxes, forbid them to go hunting. Give the paradoxes back. Give the money back. Why don't you give them back? Am I wrong, Mrs. Gennamas? I'm not wrong. You pay a hundred euros to get a hunting permit. It doesn't allow the hunter, Mr. Varoufakis, the state to hunt. Why not take his paradox back? Am I wrong, Mr. Scandalides? Like the thief is the state. When he gets them, he doesn't give them back. But when he owes them, he's after him to take his house, the car, get everything. Prime Minister, I will ask you a few questions and I want you to respond carefully to your ideology. Is it true - question is - that there is an order, an agreement by the European Commission on full immunity from vaccine companies so that there is no criminal and civil liability? Yes or no? That's what I want you to tell us. Are they demanding, demanding, and signed by the European Commission to have immunity for any side effects? Yes or no? Has our country agreed on this, too, if that's true? Why did the doctors ask for immunity, Prime Minister? He wrote to the president of the Pan-Hellenic Medical Association and asked for immunity from all doctors because of the pandemic. This means that they too are not sure of what may happen. Is that true? Yes or no? It was also written in the German press today that big insurance companies, Mr. Scandalidis, are asking for a change in insurance contracts so that if you have done the vaccine and something happens, you will not be compensated. These are developments that are coming. And the Prime Minister expects me to go out public and say "do the vaccine"? Are we serious now if I'm not sure 100% of something? How can I do that? I also expected him to call us all and the Prime Minister to tell us that a medicine was found that exists at the Papanikolaou Hospital. The head of the immune cell transplantation unit claims there is a medicine in a Greek hospital. They needed 250 thousand euros. They were found, they told me yesterday, the money. You personally had to pick up the phone to call him in your office, give him two ministers fortune to take them as bags and investigate. If there really is a medicine, and there can be an investigation, why can Greece not be able to do so? Mr. Tsipras was talking about the patent. I don't want a patent, since we can have a medicine. I tell you which hospital is: George Papanikolaou Hospital, the head of the blood cell transplant. Another question: Why does it have to save and I'll get the vaccine that MRNA is? There is also the 'SPUTNIK', the Russian vaccine. Is it bad? Hungary has taken it, other European countries have taken it, China took it, India took it. They took out this company of 1 billion two hundred million vaccines. Why is it saving and we have to get from PFIZER? Tell me about it. Why does PFIZER save and well, Prime Minister? Why? And because, Prime Minister, we do not often have the pleasure of seeing you in this House, because you are Prime Minister, you have too many jobs, we cannot have the demand, I want to tell you something. Prime Minister, I insist and say so: do not make exploratory contacts with Turkey with the Turkish agenda. Don't make exploratory contacts without Greece claiming anything. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] The "we do not claim", which is not your saying, is a decades-old saying, is a false saying that led us to "grey" Imia, "grey" Cyprus, Famagusta etc.. Don't go to investigatives. And I'll also say it again because you're a The Hague fan, don't go to The Hague. The Hague has neither the power nor the possibility of imposing any decision, such as China - Philippines, Prime Minister. The Philippines has been justified, but China as a strong country says 'I don't care, I do what I want', Mr Scandalidis. Don't give up our national sovereignty in The Hague, it's wrong. Also, if you want to go, Prime Minister, I will tell you directly, so that people know what bilateral contact means. I have a card with ten claims. Greece has a zero claim card. They are put on the table, both take into account the claims and a de facto recognition of any claims. So we are now talking about recognition on our part of any indestructive, provocative and chauvinistic claims. Did you put Apostolidis, Mr. Mitsotakis? He was with Ocalan, wasn't he? Apostolidis, the diplomat, wasn't he with Ocalan, who failed? He was in Kenya. Check it out. Is that who you put in charge? Good man, fine, but he failed with Öcalan once. Are you calling him back now? Look it up for a bit if it's the same. Apostolidis isn't he, Mr. Tsipras? That's who they have. Don't you remember him, Mr. Scandalides? It was your man, PASOK. Don't forget. Forget about it. It's not bad to remember now and then. Let's not forget. Our only difference, Mr President-in-Office, is that of reading it to you - 'the definition of the island shelf and the maritime zone' - nothing else. And we must not be flexible and small. We must be strong and united by all the parties' leaders a fist against what Erdogan wants. What the Greek Prime Minister has to understand, I will say once again why I insist and I will insist, you have seen today, Prime Minister, the children of the PLAISIOBOTS team, right, the children of robotics? You did well. These kids invented something great. But that means what? That we have opportunities as a country to get these children to make these new technology drivers, to give them a premium. Give me money. I'm telling you, they designed a robotic spades to facilitate the movement of people with a problem of sight. So instead of hug them by the rulers and get them and tell them to produce them together, export them, all right, the Prime Minister saw them formally, institutionally, and well he did, and the story ends here. The programme 'TELEMACHOS', Prime Minister, I told Mr Stefani, is anti-drone, Greek, which is manufactured. It is called 'TELEMACH'. Look at why it's important. I'm telling you proposals now. You should also go, Prime Minister, to Kilkis. Please very much, there is a group of young university children who build Drone Stealth, Prime Minister. These two - three things can be made massive, exportable, we can take currency, we can produce our own. That's what we say, like EAB. There are concrete proposals, Prime Minister, but you do not. Especially the Kilkis bad thing you're not going. You should go. Also, listen, let me tell you the gentleman's name at Papanikolaou. Achilles Anagnostopoulos is in charge. Give money to investigate the Papanikolaou. Why? Let me tell you, Mr. Scandalides. Because the 'BIOTECH' in June received a loan of EUR 122 million from the European Investment Bank, but also EUR 358 million from Germany. Why shouldn't the Prime Minister take our own company, I say, a group of people in Papanikolaou give 10, 20, 30 million for the investigation and we take the medicine out and we make money? I look into it and business, believe me. To make money for the state. Is it bad, ladies? Why don't we do it? Because they're asleep. I'm also going to say it right away, and I'm closing here, why are we afraid, Prime Minister? I will give a valve outlet, a valve that you do, you may be the only Prime Minister, after Mr. Tsipras, who has done 'yes' 'no', which you will do something real about the vaccine. Referendum. Make a referendum on the certificate. Make a referendum on the vaccine. You didn't do for the Skopje exam. You didn't make a referendum. You didn't do exploratory, a mobilization of political leaders, do a referendum for at least something. What is more good to say by the Greek people 'I want' or 'I do not want', a people's verdict is called indirect. And also, Prime Minister, and I say it to understand, Switzerland goes out and says it's going to a referendum on the vaccine. Switzerland in a referendum today announced the Swiss Medical Regulatory Authority. If the Prime Minister doesn't believe it, I'll give it to him, a Swiss guy, to testify here as well. It's not make news or internet. What the Greek Solution submits goes to Practicals and Documents, so that some people don't think we're dispersing news. Prime Minister, I will tell you this: for universities you are doing well. I heard Mr. Varoufakis. I don't know if you or Mr. Kutsubas said so. It's not about putting the police at the universities. Oh, no. I wish there were no police worldwide. The point is, why we've come to need the police universities. Why are our children untrue to realize that the building called university is not theirs, it is all Greeks and they must respect it? It's a matter of education and education. Are those pictures? I have the pleasure of going to Germany often. You go to a university in Germany, Mr. Tsipras, and you're glad, because it's cleaner than the Greek Parliament. Here, then, it is all our fault that we did not show our children that university is not a place to beat each other, it is not a place to party. And if you want to do a good job in universities, everyone and the Prime Minister will tomorrow morning abolish the SGP. Outside the school parties, out the party heels, to keep the university quiet! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] It's a solution. I'm politicizing as a man, as a young man, as a student, and another partyist, and I beat my fellow student. It's not the same thing. Trust me. It's not the same thing. On the other hand, I will say: it will fail because it does not have the good witness outside, it does not have our own view, we all agree seriously. And most importantly, a thousand officers are not enough for universities, Prime Minister, honestly. Unfortunately, with a thousand people we can't do business. Don't be fooled. If you have a hundred fifty buildings of four shifts, we're done, they're seven hundred, eight hundred people. You don't understand what I'm saying to you. That's not how it works. Here, through the socialization of our children, their relief, their treatment must understand that they must protect themselves. Let me give you an example. At school, I remember that in high school, we were getting books free and we were all tearing them apart. In Germany, you had to return it, the student had to return it, sir Admiral, next year.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u92	What if he's written it down?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u93	To return it, I tell you. Take care of it. Otherwise, you pay for it. That's how you learn. Otherwise, it can't be. We took them for free, Mr. Scandalides, and we tore them on the streets when the June season was over. So he learns what a child means norm, what a directive means, what "you have to do", to respect public wealth. That's our point of view. In conclusion, I will make a few suggestions, Prime Minister, which you must take seriously as a liberal. Because you're a liberal. I think so too. You should know that as a liberal you never give up unemployment. You're subsidising unemployment. I insist that the money given for unemployment should be given for work. So, you do a platform and you say: How many companies can employ a thousand people, two thousand people, three thousand people? These companies should hire the state to pay new recruitments - not the existing ones - to pay a premium as well as a premium. 'Cause the clerk might be good at some point and keep him. Why not? Also, Prime Minister, I insist on the loans. You need to make a real loan haircut or do bad bank. We've been calling it the first time. Mr. Varoufakis, let me inform you, to be fair, that 10% of the gentleman told you the first time, Mr. Villardos. I was listening to you earlier. You didn't say that first. Mr Viliardos said so, but he says nothing because he is an honest man and a noble man. But 10% has been said by us since April, when history started looking at the measures. I'll say the following. From the Recovery Fund, Prime Minister, tell me why to take the money to the wind turbines? Tell me about it. Go to the electric car in Thessaloniki. Greek company builds it. Give money there and that's green growth, I'll produce my car and I'll export it. Because the wind generator is German and when I have 100 euros and 60 euros, I give them to produce the product, i.e. import, all 60 are gone. Who's gonna take it? The Germans. The European Union is giving it up, the Germans are getting it. That's not growth. Two jobs are not growth. Also, the amount of repayable advances, without bank criteria and strict conditions, is slaughtered. Look at it, Prime Minister. Suspension of tax insurance obligations. I'll say it one more time. You've booked me two stores that I'm a businessman. But I also have to pay insurance contributions, to pay both PPC and traffic charges for my cars and car insurance premiums. How am I supposed to work? I need the fixed expenses again to pay them. This cannot be the case for businesses. It can't be done. I'm telling you, as a businessman. Businessmen can't work like this. And the retail trade ends, it dies. We're just finishing up financially. Let's figure it out. I was listening to Mr Varoufakis - he was right about that - that the big tsunami comes because many will be closed. They're going to close down and stay out of work, a lot of our fellow people. Do we understand that? You'll make him look for money, and the Prime Minister won't be able to find it. Where's he gonna get them to share with the unemployment funds? There's no money. So you must make a programme, Prime Minister, a reconstruction plan. That's not how it works. Also, two hundred forty doses to everyone, that's it. There's no money on the market. And the carmen. Prime Minister, I hear your Ministries have given up their cars. Transport drivers don't work and they haven't taken a single hand. They're freelance professionals. Not one. The cab drivers. Let's see what we're doing with the cab drivers. People don't have a job. What are we doing? Specific agricultural groups, livestock groups. All this, Prime Minister, I'm telling you in a good mood. We have nothing to break up with all the political leaders. We are separated by one thing, by the party claws and - I repeat - by the old-fashioned perception. We must finally understand that we must reorder our logic. We cannot, Mr Athanasios, have thirty two independent authorities when the Constitution calls for five. Five, Prime Minister, can you hear me? Thirty-two independent authorities. The Constitution defines five of us, Mr. Tsipras. Do you know how millions a year it is? Four hundred and six hundred million euros to the above independent authorities for a thousand three hundred people, that's what they are. The Minister's answers to me. Do you know what numbers these are, four hundred or five hundred million a year for a thousand three hundred people? Are we all right? Withdrawal of all the independent authorities and the House to decide with the President, to do their job. Is that so hard? Also, ask for money. I am pleased that the Legal Council of State, Prime Minister, said what I told you nine months ago by Novartis to take the 3 billion. I don't want anyone to go to jail. Bring back the stolen money. "NOVARTIS" to bring the 3 billion euros stolen, to share it with the Greeks the poor, the homeless, the one who has no head bed, the one who takes the house because he owes 10 grand, Prime Minister. That's who I want to support. Also, why don't we do something about Dieselgate, Prime Minister? Mr. Villard has said it 15 times. Dieselgate is a great scandal. In America, millions of euros have been paid a fine for the mushrooms they make. I apologize for the expression, but that's the way it is. They go and tease software to see that their engine burns less and their products are competitive. They had "mushrooms," they had scams. The Americans got them. Why don't we check how, what, we get the money? Why doesn't any Minister do it? Why don't any prosecutors initiate the procedure? All this, Prime Minister, why am I asking? Omonia, obsession, and most importantly - I'll say it directly - really. Let's be honest in here. Let us be 100% sure of what we say. That's why the Greek Solution came here with seriousness and measure to put forward proposals every time and elements that confirm it, not faint arguments, not opposition to opposition to the Prime Minister, but to whip him, if you like, as a bungalow to see where the right route is if the man is wrong. That's what the Greek Solution does, and that's what we'll do for Mr. Tsipras, if he goes to rule again, Mrs. Gennamas. For anyone who governs this we shall, until the Greek people give me a four-year period and finally rule the Greek Solution, which is the only solution, the real solution to the place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u94	Good. However, Mr Velopoulou, at that time in Kenya there was another ambassador.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u95	No, Mr. President. Once again the 'First Theme' is disproved.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u96	Ambassador to Kenya was another. I know because he was from my country.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u97	He took over the process, I say. That's what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u98	I'm talking about the ambassador.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u99	I didn't say an ambassador. I said he took the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u100	Okay, good. Mr Yiannis Varoufakis, President of the MERA25 Parliamentary Group, has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, in addition to the confrontations between us, it is very important that in the next few days the rate of vaccination reaches forty-five thousand per day, so that we can save at least twenty percent of our lives in the next six months through vaccination. You referred to a huge number. I wish! I consider it impossible to do so, since you have not set up the mass vaccination centres network. I hope you can prove to me that you can do it in the next few days. We will support you, as we have backed the restrictive measures from the outset since March. We're talking about people dying unnecessarily, who can save them right now. It's a crime not to save them. That's what you'll have our support for. On the other hand, you will allow me to tell you that in the middle of a oven, when you realize that the captain doesn't know the basic technical characteristics of the ship, sir, and he doesn't even know the course that the ship has carved, at that time you don't get the best sense of security. We have a Prime Minister who thinks the country was on the verge of bankruptcy in 2015. Mr. Mitsotakis, the country went bankrupt in 2010. That's why we have the memos. We do not have them, because Mr Papandreou suddenly decided that he wanted to get a huge, major loan in human history, at absolute prices, not at relative prices. Mr. Papandreou didn't want that. He did, because the country went bankrupt. What does it mean to be bankrupt by a state? It means he can't repay his debt. That's what it means. And so it went on terms, not supervision, but debt-sharing in the troika. This was in 2010. Then your party said it. You may not. Others in your party then called it. As for the formal bankruptcy, to talk a little bit technically, when did it happen? Didn't it happen in 2012? When did the CDS get detonated? What does it mean to detonate the CDS? It means that the world financial market considers that your state has been officially bankrupt. It took place twice in 2012. So you really think in 2015 we were on the verge of bankruptcy? Oh, no. We were at the bottom of bankruptcy. That's why we've all been elected with SYRIZA. The Greek people did not suddenly become radical left. He elected us because you had thrown the country to the bottom - not just before or shortly after - bankruptcy. Prime Minister, you said something that I would fully agree with. I also stressed it in my protology. I'll say it now. We have a duty here to disagree politically, civilly, of course, but we have no right to disagree on numbers. You said that. You didn't say that? Uh, can we agree on the numbers of bankruptcy? Because bankruptcy began in 2010, but continues today. Mr. Tsipras, you didn't get us out of a memorial. The fourth time you called it 'antimony'. Good. This is a very good package, retourism. We are, however, in the longest Memorandum that goes until 2060 with 'enhanced surveillance', you said so, instead of a Troika. Like the CIA is no longer talking about torture. He's talking about an enhanced interrogation. But these are communication issues. On the substance, you too are in a troika process. Here, you go and please let them give you a little bit of this, a little bit of there. Italy's not begging. Spain's not begging. Please. And I'm not judging you for that. You have inherited the fourth Memorandum and you are going full for the fifth. Why are you going for the fifth? Because at the bottom of bankruptcy we've been at the bottom of 2010. So simple. Shall we agree on numbers? Because they're ELSTAT's numbers. They're not mine. It's not Barofakis' numbers. In 2010, shortly before the cannon broke, we were at 240 billion GDP and had a debt - remember the PASOKs - of about 299 billion to 300 billion. The income was 240 billion and about 300 billion the debt. In 2015, when I went to the Treasury, you handed me over, your government then, an income that had gone from 240 billion to 175 billion. That's why we entered the House. Because you all went bankrupt together, PASOK and New Democracy. And we know very well the lisbergisi that was done before the financing of the oligarchy and the funding of an incredible food. You say it and your newspapers admit it. So you delivered a GDP of 175 billion and a debt of 319 billion, if I remember, when I went to the Ministry. From 240 billion had gone to 175 billion GDP and the debt had gone from 300 billion - the PSI haired it, then re-entered - to 320 billion. A year later, at the end of 2015, with all that happened, GDP was there at 175, the debt was there at 310-320. You received it around 185, 188, 183, with the cooking you did - that is, it had been kind of up, by hypothetically, since 2015, until a pandemic begins. The pandemic's on the way to 162. And our debt is 368 billion, with your own figures, with the figures of the Ministry of Finance and DPRKH, 31 September 2020, I said it before. In other words, we are much more bankrupt today than we were in 2015, 2014, 2012 and, of course, 2010. The only reason to allow you to say that everything is going well and to borrow at a zero rate is because the debt-sharing is so deep that you have actually taken over the debt, but under conditions of systematic completion of the Greek social economy and under conditions that do not allow you to spend twelve pennies in the national health system. Or you - addressing SYRIZA - still did not allow you. You had a different attitude. You've spent some more on it, but we're talking infinitely minor differences within the string cloak of the third, fourth and fifth memorials that we're going now. Mr Mitsotakis, in my prototype I referred to the specific proposals we have made and the network of vaccination centres, which could then be a dowry for the primary care of the ESS, and on the issue of the outstanding debts you are inhibiting, which I told you to cover, because you will not get that money anyway. And if you're gonna make public revenues over time, in the medium term, not even in the longer term, it's gonna be bigger. I told you about the returnee for the part that is to be returned not to erase it, but turn it into an option, in a public capacity, in fact, to make a deal with the micro-enterprise "if you recreate and sell it to me, otherwise you don't give it to me". You didn't answer that. Again, the ball on the 2015 lane. I told you before Christmas, in the budget, that Mera25 is tabling a formal proposal that the House should open the file of bankruptcy and memorials, of all the memoranda from 2010 to today, and all of us, who were involved in this process, should respond, at least to agree - we will not agree politically, Mr Mitsotakis - to the figures. You cannot say that in 2015 we were on the verge of bankruptcy when we were at the bottom of 2014 and 2013 and 2012. We need to know what the numbers are. Can we agree on numbers? Because if we agree on the numbers, then we will improve the quality of our dialogue on what is going on. Because what's going on today and tomorrow, and it's going to be all over the '20s, we're entering a gloomy, new lost decade of debt-government, which pandemic makes worse -- this wound is open, the wound of the '10s and it's going to be extended in the '20s. As the House opened up the Cyprus file and not everyone agreed, but at least some basic elements, some data - as you said - were common and we were able to agree at least on it and then disagree on everything else, I tell you to do so. You did not promise - you threatened, in fact - that you would do an examination for 2015, for me, for Mr. Tsipras etc.Huh? I personally propose to you: open the file of bankruptcy and of all the memoranda, and of the first and second and third and fourth, and of what you will soon bring us, for the sake of the troika, of enhanced supervision. As long as you do not do this, you are exposed every time we tell you something about late debts, red loans, for the public debt management company, and you say "a, in 2015...". Stop that. It is not a quality of parliamentary dialogue. Open the bankruptcy file if you want. Until then, be quiet. I want to close - and I am not going to take advantage of your politeness, Mr President - by saying that this is a difficult time for people who are suffering, for people in hospitals, nurses, doctors, for all of us, and that national unity is needed for which many people have called. Let's see it this way together. As I was coming here to take the floor, I was thinking of the extremely difficult - more difficult than the current - juncture during the war and occupation. And I remembered there were some time times when the democratic world began to see light in the tunnel. It was with El Alameen when the war, Stalingrad, came back, when discussions began in Breton Woods on the post-war world. The democratic community worldwide began somewhere from 1943, 1944, and then hoped for the exit and planning the exit. At the time, we started entering the Romance Civil War. I'm afraid something like that will now happen with the vaccine being a real lighthouse in the dark. And it will become a real lighthouse if you speed up your vaccination procedures, as we tell you. Other countries, such as China, Germany, and even the United States, which handled the first part of the crisis worse than we here, are seeing this light already. We are delaying on the one hand because of the very slow rate of vaccination, the non-enhancement of the National Health System, the non-creation of primary care, the networks of vaccination centres, and on the other hand the debt-supply that is going on, with the fact that you do not have the degrees of freedom to do what you need to do. Example: VAT at 15% - it cannot be 23% - the abolition of full advances, the abolition of this nonsense with HERAKLE no longer. I know you have friends in the 'parallel' fund area, but you cannot sacrifice the country, because you will eventually leave and leave at night, apparently, another Memorandum Government. But the point is what you're going to leave behind. And you will unfortunately leave the victims that we can save today and you will leave a lost decade that we could save if we do not keep saying yes to everything that destroys us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u102	And today's debate closes with the tritology of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis. Here, Mr. Mitsotakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u103	Mr. Varoufakis, I don't know if this government will leave tonight. What I can tell you is that every government in a democratic state leaves or renews its trust on the night of the elections. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] This will also happen with our own government. When the election time comes at the end of the four-year period, we will put our work in the Greek people's judgment and whether the Greek people reward us or reward someone else. That is how the coordinate democracies work, and despite the ten-year crisis, which has troubled us and to some extent still afflict us, Greek democracy has come stronger than this deep adventure, parliamentaryism has come stronger. Greek society today - my appreciation for this, I believe you will agree - on many occasions is more mature than many other adventures. Perhaps it is the wound of the crisis that forced us to grow violently. The debate on the past, Mr Varoufakis, has taken place and it has been extended. The numbers don't have to talk about them. That is a little too much of what you mentioned. What we will never know, because in the future we cannot create a reality in the past, is what would happen if things had taken a different orbit and the country had been outside the euro area and possibly outside the European Union, because that was the real risk that we avoided in 2015. We'll never know that. I think we all have our opinion of whether this would be better or worse in the course of the country. In any case, however, this is a debate that, as we make it, does not favour or honor you or Mr Tsipras. I now come to answer and try to sum up what I have heard in the second quarters of the parties' leaders. I'll give more answers this time to Mrs. Gennamas. I will, because I think - and I appreciate it - you may disagree, Mr Tsipras - that the criticism he has given us, but also the proposals he has put forward, have been at a much greater level than what you have said. Sometimes, you see, the size of the parties is not necessarily proportional to the quality of the political speech. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I also looked to find in your dentext if there are some substantiated proposals that need a substantial response. I found one on which I'm standing at the end of my position. So I answer Mrs Gennamas on the issue of vaccines. I am pleased that you have recognised, and it is good to agree in this Chamber that we must always have sufficient doses to ensure the second dose. I say this because there are countries such as the United Kingdom, which have deviated from the logic of the approval of vaccines and on their desperation, because they face a deep and unprecedented health crisis, they take the risk of infecting as many of their fellow citizens as possible with a single dose, not even knowing whether they will be and when they will be able to do the second one. We must therefore agree in this Chamber that this is not a strategy that we must follow. Because the vaccine has been approved by the European Medicines Agency and clinical investigations have been performed with two doses. So the Greek state will always have 'cava', if you want, available vaccines, so that it can ensure that the second dose takes place. You are right in your numbers, obviously right now we have a chance, and today we are going to stop making another fifty thousand vaccines, and we will try to do them as soon as possible. I do not think anyone disagrees in this Chamber that we should make the vaccines as soon as possible. And since I hope that the European Medicines Agency will also give the approval that we can make six doses out of each vial of PFIZER and not five, this will enable us to increase the percentage and the doses that we can do. Also, there will always be a plan in case no one shows up for a date, there will be others who can make the vaccine at that time, so that no missed dose of the vaccine goes down. This is important - I stress - especially for the PFIZER vaccine, which we cannot keep under room conditions for an extended period of time. And that is why, I repeat, we have now opened up fewer vaccination centres. Because the distribution of this vaccine is extremely complicated. The MODERNA vaccine has a little easier to distribute. The rest of the vaccines will have much easier distribution. Mr Varoufakis, in order to respond to the feasibility of the exponential increase in vaccination, which I think we all want, I will tell you that yes, it is possible because, since - I stress it always - companies keep their time schedules and deliver us the new vaccines in March or in April when we expect the many and large doses, at least one of these vaccines is a vaccine which, if approved - I stress it - is monodosy and can be moved under room conditions. This allows us much faster movement and much easier vaccination than the one we need to do at the moment with the PFIZER vaccines and to some extent MODERNA. And I come to primary care. You said something that concerns me too. Someone gets sick, who can eventually end up in the hospital. What are the protocols and what are the care we offer to him as sick as he is in the first few days? I have called for - and indeed this is something that also concerns the Committee on Special Infectiouss - to update our protocols on the basis of what is best we know at the moment about the medicines that may - I stress, if necessary - work or may have minimal side effects. Because we must have the possibility on the basis of what we know and know that there is no cure - we must be clear - to offer at least some better first-stage care to patients who are ill and whose course we are unable to know. The truth is that when we did our internal diagnosis of what was wrong in Macedonia and we had this tragic number of deaths for a month, we unfortunately found that many patients not from urban centres, but from villages, arrived at the hospitals when they were already very sick. This is a reality that we have to deal with. It is one truth that we have seen along the way. That is why, for at least a period of time, the death rate was indeed greater than what we expected and we have to deal with it. And actually coming to the hospital earlier is obviously better than coming later. With regard to this debate on the invasions, you know, Mr Tsipras, that for a large proportion of patients - I think everyone and especially those who practice the medical profession - know that intuition does not offer anything to some people, to many. You know that, we all know it, some happen to know it from personal experience. The decision not to invade a patient is a medical decision. Mr Contozamanis was absolutely right to say so, absolutely right. Many times it's not taken in consultation with the family. And it is the right decision and responsible decision when the intubation does not offer anything or can offer few days of life with very great suffering. And that happens a lot, it's not just happening now, it's always happening. Your argument would have been based if there were requests from doctors to put patients in the intensive and there were no intensive beds. But that was not the case and I can assure you that if it had happened, we would all have learned. That's not what happened. The patients who took intensive time and time of crisis, even though we had to move them and take them to other areas, were covered by an intensive bed. That is to give an answer to this question, because it is a grievous debate which, first and foremost, is unfair to the doctors themselves, who are called, under very difficult circumstances, to make difficult decisions. But they always do it on the basis of what is best for the patient and if the intubation into a very old, very burdensome patient, has something to offer or simply add pain, suffering to him and to their families. So there is something about primary care, which must concern us, so that we are ready to prevent a possible third wave, because I think it should be the target. You mentioned - and here you were wrong, Mrs Genuine, but I would like to give an answer - that there are no provisions in the RRF programme that we have submitted to the European Union. We have anticipated a total of 3 billion for health, of which 650 million for prevention, 660 million for hospital repairs - I refer to the big funds - 400 million for primary care and 275 million for digital health. I'm filing the relevant table. [[At this point, the President of the Government, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We hope and hope that these will be programmes which will be approved by the European Commission, because they are very important. Europe itself recognises that health, especially when intersected with digital health, should be a central European priority. Now, as I told you, our aim is to be able to avoid a third wave. The decision was made by the experts. We will open up the retail trade all over the country, in addition to the red areas, which will function with the clack away regime, and I think we are doing, all here, in this Chamber, an appeal for additional attention from all of us. If we want to support the economy, if we want to support the retail trade, I assure you that no measures, no advance payments, and no suspension of taxes, and no deletion of obligations, can replace the turnover of the store. It's impossible right now. And we particularly care about the retail trade at this juncture, because you all know - Mr Velopoulos referred to it - that we have merchants who have stowed at the moment, and while a restaurant may survive if we manage to limit and cover its operating expenses, a dealer who will not sell his stock will not survive. It is therefore very important that the retail trade operates, but operates under rules. These rules will be presented in detail in half an hour from now on by Mr Hardalia, and I think it is our duty to support this effort, the market to open up, but to open up by rules, so as to limit, to the extent possible, one cannot give any guarantee - a new rise in cases. I now come to the financial measures. There again, it is interesting to compare between the two parties, the Central Left and the Left - I leave Mr Koutsouba aside, who has a different theory - but also some of the opinions I have heard from Mr Varoufakis. Regarding the repayable advance, SYRIZA says: All the returning, non-refundable horizontally. Mrs Genuine says something different, which I find more interesting and that is the reason why the government is moving. It says we have ratings as to the rate of refund that will not be refunded, depending on the damage suffered by the company. That makes sense to me, and that is the reason why the government is moving. I'm not ready yet to make announcements about the return deposit. We will be able to do so when the cycle of this adventure is closed in good, and we can have a full economic picture, a full economic footprint of the real impact on businesses, with the aim of always keeping business alive, but at the same time - and that is why it is a mistake, Mr Tsipras - not to cultivate a culture of non-payments. The worst thing that can happen at the moment is to create the impression that no one is paying, because the state will come in a magical way to give debts and obligations. That would be a disaster and we must prevent it. And any encouragement in this direction only damage can do. I repeat once again that we wish that this adventure will not last long. I have reason to believe that we can be optimistic that after April, things will start going much better and why the weather will help us, this virus is seasonal, but also because gradually - and I hope very quickly - we will increase the immunity wall, which means that we can not force the health system so much. But we know that the next three months will still be difficult. And it's gonna be hard months for the economy. We have said many times that we will stand by businesses, particularly small and medium-sized enterprises and workers on this very great adventure. That is why we are extending the special rent arrangement for a month, which is why we are looking to the unemployed with a prolongation of unemployment benefits, and that is why we have provided the budget with a separate amount, precisely so that we can protect ourselves from the economic impact. However, it is obviously a wish and wish - and that is why we will work - that this gradual opening does not lead again to an increase in cases. I think that we should all work in this direction, but I stress that we need attention from everyone. I have no doubt that the retailers in the retail trade, who will open on Monday with great anticipation, will comply with the rules. We all have to follow the rules. We also need customers to comply with the rules. We don't have to all go on Monday. You understand, I think, of course, that we are also trying to expand the working hours, keep shops and Sundays open to break the world so that we do not have crowding phenomena. That is what concerns us. But I heard something from Mr. Tsipras that I found interesting and because I want to close with a tone more synthetic, I will say something. You mentioned, Mr. Tsipras, the fines. You said we don't want the fine to be punishable. Look, there is a fine to punish anyone in his knowledge who violates a rule, and in this case the violation of this rule has implications not for him, but for the wider social group. That is why we have fines, which is why we have rules, which is why we have penalties.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u104	The principle of proportionality...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u105	Indeed, some fines may have been introduced to people who may have escaped for some minutes and been punished in this way. But as a sign of good will and confidence, I am prepared to keep the fine at EUR 300 for a week, to see how the citizens will respond, once again calling for the purpose to never be repressive, but it must be a purpose of compliance to build a great social alliance, but on the other hand, recognizing that there are our fellow citizens who, unfortunately, have shown provocative behaviours which cannot be left unpunished, because the provocative behaviour here is not just about one. That is the problem of this pandemic. We're not punishing ourselves. It is not a case where one does not wear his belt in the car and if he does not wear it - which we come and impose on him what he must do - he himself will be punished, he will suffer the damage, but the state comes and imposes on him what he knows is not right. Here we are not in this case. Here we are in the event that a behaviour which is incompatible with what experts have indicated, may have absolutely no impact on him because he may be asymptomatic, but may have tragic consequences for those around him, for his relatives, for people he does not know. So that's why there's the fine. But in a move to send out the message that we want compliance with the logic, collective responsibility and not the fear of the fine, we will keep the fine for the next 10 days where it is today and then evaluate what needs to be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u106	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the triatology of the Prime Minister has been concluded in accordance with the special agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-15-S1-commons.u107	With the consent of the House at 17.40 a sitting is closed on Monday, January 18, 2021, at 13.00, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, a debate on topical and urgent questions.
