ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-02-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 1-7-2021, PNE's minutes were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau on Thursday, 1 July 2021, with regard to the vote on the entire draft law: ‘Medium-term Financial Strategy Framework 2022-2025’.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent debate on Monday 5 July 2021. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 891/25-6-2021 by SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Christos Giannoulis to the Minister of Civil Protection, on the subject: "Strengthening the police force of the Directorate-General for Police of Thessaloniki from extensive secondments". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 890/23-6-2021 by MP B2' Western Athens of the Movement of Change Mr. Konstantina (Nantia) Giannakopoulou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The legislative intervention to protect the public - forest character of Poikilos Mounts" is necessary. 3. The Question No 895/25-6-2021 by Congressman B2' West Athens Athens Section of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Amorgos, Kimolos, Kythera, Sikinos and Tinos, wind turbines despite the European shield?" B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. Under No 894/25-6-20201 of the SYRIZA MP Pella - Progressive Alliance Mr. Theodoras Jakri to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Procedure and time to pay advances of 40% to the tree farmers affected by the spring ices in March and April 2021". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Question No 898/28-6-2021 by Mr Evangelia Lykoulis, Member of Parliament, on the subject of "The Despairers now, everywhere!". 3. The Question No 896/25-6-2021 by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Political Mount: Time zero to defend its public and forest character". 4. The question by number 897/28-6-20201 by MP Florina of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr.Theophistis (Petis) Perkas to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Green transition to the Greek Recovery and Resilience Plan". 5. The Question No 899/28-6-2021, by MEP Laris of the Change Movement, Evangelia Lykoulis, to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "An unjustified exclusion of municipalities of less than twenty thousand inhabitants from the invitation of the Green Fund". 6. The Question No 908/28-6-2021 by SYRIZA MEP - Progressive Alliance Mr.Alexis Haritsis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "In a state of exclusion from the extension of natural gas networks, the Peloponnese Region". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The Question No 901/28-6-2021 by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the subject: "An unjustified exclusion of municipalities of less than twenty thousand inhabitants from the invitation of the Green Fund". 8. The Question No 903/28-6-2021 by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs on the subject: "An extension for workers in the Social Welfare Programme" is necessary. 9. The Question No 904/28-6-2021 by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the subject: "A solution for recognition of legacy from the Register". 10. The Question No 906/28-6-2021 by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Digital Governance, on the subject: "A solution for recognition of legacys from the Land Register". 11. The Question No 907/28-6-2021 by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Increasing the budget of the Young Farmers' Programmes and Improving Plans". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No 5912/12-24-2021 of SYRIZA MEP - Progressive Alliance Mr Socrates Famelou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The energy communities and measures to combat energy poverty will remain outside the National Recovery and Resistance Plan?" 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The report by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingero Kegeroglou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Building downwards on the Arkalochori-Afghani municipal road". 3. The question by No. 6002/15-4-2021 of SYRIZA MEP - Progressive Alliance Mr. Socrates Famelou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Ragda's deterioration of the Manager of the Greek Electricity Distribution Network (DEDEE) in the context of his privatisation: the blackout of thousands of households in the bad weather of "Medea" and the tragic accident in Evia reveal the degradation plan of the Manager". 4. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: ‘Required measures to support the car owners of passenger cars’. 5. The question and application under number 5978/577/14-4-2021 of the SYRIZA MP's documents - Progressive Alliance Mr Socrates Famelou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: ‘The New Democracy Government plans to bring about a new charge on electricity consumers and create two speed investors with the plan ‘ELLADA 2.0’. 6. The question by No 4819/8-3-20201 by MP Kastoria of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Olympia Tyloridos to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Extension of support for workers in the fur industry". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question asked by SYRIZA's MP, Mr Socrates Famelou, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The anti-nuclear period begins with strong forests and government indifference." Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS In his letter the Secretary-General of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs informs us that today, on Friday, July 2, the topical questions to be discussed are Questions Nos 902/28-6-2021, 893/25-6-2021 and 905/28-6-2021. We will begin with the first with number 893/25-6-2021, a top-level question for the first cycle of the SYRIZA MP, - the Progressive Alliance Mr. Paul Pavaki, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "The need for an extension of time schedules and the relaxation of suffocating conditions in agri-food and aid programmes". Mr. Polakis, good morning. Happy birthday, too. You have two minutes to speak about the beginning.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-02-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, the last payment by OPEKEPE - not the previous one, the one that had been made with the aid associated a while ago - was, in general speaking, the worst of the producers themselves since the measure of the linked aid to the producer's single aid was introduced. This payment has highlighted a number of serious problems that have arisen in the producer relationship with the PSOs, OPEKEPE and the Ministry of Rural Development and Food, as well as delays and errors in the payment of aid and compensation and penalties for producers throughout the territory. From the information we have, which you have announced, about six thousand producers were found out of the single payment, and from those who took some of them had penalties. At a time with still existing coronary restrictions, CSRs and scholars are invited to meet a particularly difficult task with the Ministry of Rural Development and OPECE to show that they do not fully understand the situation. Following the sirial of the previous months with the technical consultant, the AACC opened 15 April for the on-line declarations by producers. However, the RAGs gained access and full functionality in the system at the end of April. Therefore, farmers and farmers are being called upon until 22 June - I know of the implied extension, after all - to make their statement, a statement that is the basis for being able to obtain a subsidy, to be beneficiaries of any compensation, to join programmes and to maintain their commitments to already approved programmes that may be involved without penalising them. There is a number of statements, about six hundred thousand, with a large number of agricultural parcels, farms and data, which are called upon within this limited period to complement very carefully, because the possibility of correcting - and here there is a great problem - does not exist, because since last year the OPECE has removed the possibility of administrative acts, since it has only limited the cases of implementing the administrative act to one, which actually creates a huge mess with many farmers. That is why you are asking - and I will then come back - whether you intend to extend this, greater than the implicit one that, due to the delay in the debate on the question, I know that you have given, because of the restrictive measures which exist for the pandemic and all the timescales that have gone back. And, secondly, whether it will change the suffocating framework of the IACC's administrative acts that has led many producers to losses of subsidies and penalties without them being blamed on the issue of administrative acts. Thank you and I will return to my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-02-S1-commons.u3	Thank you too, Mr Polakis. The State Secretary for Rural Development and Food will answer Mr. Fontaine Arabaji. Mrs. Arabaji, good morning. You have three minutes for you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-02-S1-commons.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Polakis, I think your fires are a little bit unresolved and I'm going to be very specific. In your question you are concerned about how to make final statements on the single aid to producers, with the problems that really existed because of the pandemic. I shall also refer to the pandemic a little bit more specifically. You have obviously not been informed that by 30 June that the system was closed, with the problems created by teleworking, distance work, the difficulties caused by social exclusion and, therefore, the difficulties of farmers in submitting their declarations to the Staff Regulations; however, the Ministry of Rural Development, OPEKEPE and all the supervised bodies that are called upon to deal with crises were fully coordinated on 30 June, as every year - and I am transporting you - six hundred and fifty thousand Ninety-five declarations to the system. So why are you concerned and why is the extension you are asking for? Secondly, you are referring specifically to your question and to the oral question that the related aid for sheep and goat milk has been admittedly the worst in recent years. Now I beg your pardon, Mr Polakis, from a government such as yours, with its work and its days in the agricultural sector - and I refer to the tax and insurance raid you have made on farmers, I am referring to the unprecedented delay in the payments you have made - to tell us that it was the worst and to tell us that it was too late, when the payment was made on 20 May 2021 for sheep and goats and for the beef and veal you have made on your own days - do you want to hear dates when they were paid? -2015, 22 July of '16 paid the sheep and goat, 2016, 8 June of 2017, 17 May of 2018. And we paid 20 May of 2021 with the coronary pandemic, having all the issues that you referred to with the technical consultant, which, of course, were restored to the legal and transparent path and which we are talking about for two days now with regard to the six thousand farmers to whom you referred. Indeed, OPEKEPE found from the 2020 farmers’ declarations that of the twenty-three thousand farmers who had declared ovine and caprine sheep farmers there was a problem of matching the livestock capital and the minimum of milk to be declared. So, in short, you can't say that you have a hundred fifty animals when you declare ten tons of milk. You must state at least fifteen tonnes of milk. So OPEKEPE - and what is not responsible - comes out of four communications, after having seen the problem: 12-10-2020 - sends an e-mail from the OPEKEPE to the CSCE, State Reception Centres, with the initial circular of administrative acts including the corrections of kept animals. On 26 October, a post on the OPECE website for the above corrections with the end date of 31 December 2021. E-mail on 29 October of the coordinating body to certified CCT with the corresponding circular. 8 December 2020 again on the OPEKEPE website inviting producers to correct the requested animals as a result of an incorrect initial assessment. 29 January communication giving an extension of these corrections until 31 January. It is precisely five steps to avoid. What happened in practice? Of the twenty - three thousand, the sixteen thousand corrected and stayed the sixteen thousand two hundred, who had not corrected this whole process. So what did the Ministry and OPEKEPE do? With the intervention of the political leadership and in full consultation with the OPECEP, we are giving one week. We are reopening the system for a week from Monday - I have here the date - in order to give these people a chance to correct. In fact, Mr Polakis, we are sending to the Declaration Centres just and named the names of the farmers who had to declare and make the right matching. I mean, ready work, take it, they have to state it like that. And what happens the other day, on June 30, Mr. Polakis? These people, the six thousand two hundred ninety-five, were paid with 4,636,940,99 euros.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-02-S1-commons.u5	The two thousand eight hundred.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-02-S1-commons.u6	The sixteen thousand, ninety-five, Mr. Polakis, with official OPEKEPE data, have now received EUR 4.5 million, on 30 June, because the system - and even firefighting - operated in order not to leave any sheep and goats, no livestock farmers and to have a payment issue. Not even penalties were imposed. Normally the payment was made. We did what it was going through and it didn't go through our hands to make everything all right. I give you what I have mentioned for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Rural Development, Mr Fotini Arabatzis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The rest of it will be in my dentistry, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-02-S1-commons.u7	Thank you very much, Mrs. Undersecretary. Here, Mr Polakis, you have three minutes to go.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-02-S1-commons.u8	Mrs Arabaji, thank you for the answer. The truth is that when the debate takes place after 15 days and some things have passed and some things have changed. I would like to focus on one point, because I have the information I have, the payment two days ago, is that they gave EUR 2,881,000 to two thousand six hundred forty beneficiaries of aid for the production of sheep's milk. So, as I said before, about three thousand were unpaid with over 5 million euros to receive. That's the evidence I've got. If those are different, and they're upwards, I'm glad. I would like to ask something about the December payment, because there is a more general issue about what you said to me earlier that you sent the ready job to the reception centres to do. But that's what OPECE did in the past few years. He automatically made the match. The problem was raised because you have put farmers in the administrative act this year and not directly the cross-check, which had the information on the final milk production in relation to the initial statement made by the producer. That's what happened every year. That's how it was. So this year, with the coronary and the restrictive measures you said that the producer must do so and that is where the problem was created, because there are also two categories of farmers who cannot make the statement even today. The two categories are those that are on the spot and those who have not notified the veterinary register. And that's not because they don't want people to do it, but because there are the coronary restrictive measures. So they can't do it for these two reasons. This category cannot do the additional administrative act. Now we're going to a more serious one, Mrs. Arabaji. The most serious is this: the total subsidy was EUR 1650,000,000, minus 2.5% that had been deducted before. In other words, about EUR 40 million goes for the national reserve. Of this EUR 1650,000 that had to be paid in December 2020 which passed on to us and which was paid in 2019 and 2018 and 2017, approximately 180 million were missing. In other words, there was a 10% -11% shortfall across all producers. From this missing amount, you paid the total of the two payments at around EUR 85 million the day before yesterday. So, there's no ninety missing. If all this has gone to the national reserve, you must present a payment of EUR 90 million that you cut this year, plus EUR 40 million that has already been kept since 2.5%, that is, a payment of EUR 130 million. Can you tell us that subsidisation money exactly where they've gone? As far as I have been informed, there has been no such payment of EUR 130 million for strengthening the national reserve, new rights, etc. I had also asked Mr Vorides a while ago about it, when the cut-off and 'till of the tomb silence' had been made. We are proud of what we have done for producers in the period 2015-2019. We made the law for pastures, saved too many fines, producers knew when they would get their subsidies and get them without such things. We have saved too many fines from the European Union. Can you tell me, however, these EUR 130 million missing, where they are, where they went or where they will go? Because they are missing from the farmers' support accounts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-02-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr. Polakis. Here, Mrs. Arabatzis, you have three minutes too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-02-S1-commons.u10	Mr. Polakis, I always try to speak specifically at the National Representation with certain particulars and figures.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-02-S1-commons.u11	So am I.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-02-S1-commons.u12	Excuse me, but I can't see it. I do not see any particular evidence or figures, because you say numbers which you do not prove. You have already come to your prototype and said that two thousand farmers have been paid, and I say to you according to official OPEKEPE figures that all six hundred ninety-five and five and five million euros have been paid. You come here and tell us you're proud of SYRIZA's years. Well, I didn't expect anything else to say, Mr. Polakis. You are obviously proud of the overtaxation of farmers, which, in the first bill brought by the government, reduced it to 9%. Obviously you are proud that you have paid insurance contributions of one thousand a month for farmers. You are obviously proud that you have made two and a half years to pay the legal payments of the ELGA farmers and a government is coming in in the middle of a pandemic and pays two times, one for the Jan and now one for the ice. Now, if you're proud, really, Mr. Polakis, I'm not surprised. However, I would like to say to you this: in order not to pandemic and to allow farmers to go freely and without delay and normality to function, there must obviously be a wall of vaccination immunity, Mr Polakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-02-S1-commons.u13	Are you going to tell us about the 130 million euros?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-02-S1-commons.u14	And I find the opportunity to say to the National Representation that to have subsidies, Mr Polakis, and to have a normal life, rural, economic and all the life that we want to enjoy, produce and fight, we must have health. Farmers, beekeepers, livestock farmers, fishermen must be healthy. That is why, from this step forward, I call on all the people in the primary sector, their families, their children to be vaccinated, in contrast to what you are going to say, Mr Polakis. I really feel that I'm in front of the most prominent representative of the anti-embryo movement. You have a responsibility for what you do and say, Mr Polakis. You cannot talk about the pandemic and the problems it creates, at the same time as you throw oil into the fire and leave the world inconvenience and those who have any doubts. It's human. We're not all scientists or doctors.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-02-S1-commons.u15	Are you going to tell us about the 130 million euros?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-02-S1-commons.u16	The EUR 130 million, Mr Polakis, are your numbers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-02-S1-commons.u17	Where are these?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-02-S1-commons.u18	Please, Mr. Polakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-02-S1-commons.u19	I'm telling you that six thousand two hundred ninety-five ovine and caprine farmers have been paid...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-02-S1-commons.u20	We're talking about 130 million euros.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-02-S1-commons.u21	We heard that, Mr. Polakis. You said that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-02-S1-commons.u22	Mr. Polakis, ask you a new question with evidence, and I'll answer you with evidence.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-02-S1-commons.u23	They're really numbers. EUR 130 million is missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-02-S1-commons.u24	Mr. Polakis, we've heard of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-02-S1-commons.u25	The impoverishment of your arguments is also apparent from the fact that you put new data unnoticed in your dentistry. I understand the difficult position in which you have been found. Let me say two words about what you said you did, about the pastures and those. Mr Polakis, the pastures and the fact that the European Union is viewed as grassland the rich, woody and toasty areas of our country are the conquest of a government negotiation with a torso of New Democracy - Mr Kegeroglu knows that - in 2014. That is what you received from the Omnibus Regulation, and of course this regulation then went through the European institutions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-02-S1-commons.u26	What do you think? That's why we had the fines!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-02-S1-commons.u27	Secondly, Mr Polakis, the associated aid to the sheep and goat, which is so much of a concern to you, and well does and is of interest to you,...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-02-S1-commons.u28	Boss was my father, and I'm interested.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-02-S1-commons.u29	...there was a law with a government in New Democracy. In 2014, it was decided on the dossier for the new Common Agricultural Policy submitted by the Government of New Democracy in August 2014. As far as administrative acts are concerned, we are fully applying the Union regime to ensure that payments are lawful and that there are no issues of recovery.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-02-S1-commons.u30	But then I'll have to answer that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-02-S1-commons.u31	If the President gives you the floor, I have no problem and we can discuss it by noon. You say in your question, Mr Polakis: "Will the suffocating framework of the administrative acts of the IACS which has led many producers to losses of subsidies and penalties be changed?" To say exactly what you mean here, Mr. Polakis, if the framework for making corrections is infinitely open the system will not be able to function....
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-02-S1-commons.u32	I am not saying for a long time, but I am not saying that the question is 'on an infinite basis'.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-02-S1-commons.u33	... in order to carry out cross-checks in order to make all the necessary transactions to make payments. Is that what you're suggesting to be an open system?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-02-S1-commons.u34	Is that what you understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-02-S1-commons.u35	That's what I understood.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-02-S1-commons.u36	Please, both of them!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-02-S1-commons.u37	You, Mrs. Undersecretary, have created the problem this year that, instead of putting OPEKEPE on the crossroads, you have made the farmer do.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-02-S1-commons.u38	Mr. Polakis, should I go?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-02-S1-commons.u39	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-02-S1-commons.u40	The debuging, Mr Polakis, we saw it and made five updates from the OPEKEPE and we gave ready correction food for it to take place. It's an obligation...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-02-S1-commons.u41	Why didn't you fix it yourself then, like before?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-02-S1-commons.u42	The result counts.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-02-S1-commons.u43	There are 8 million missing from the result.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-02-S1-commons.u44	Farmers and ovine and caprine animals were paid on 30-6 normally. No problem was created. Six hundred and eighty-eighty-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-out-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-out-one-one-t-on-t-on-t-on-the-the-true, though pandemic. The coordination of the Ministry with the supervised ones worked in such a way as not to "open a nose", Mr. Polakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-02-S1-commons.u45	Thank you very much, Mrs. Arabaji.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-02-S1-commons.u46	Let me say a word, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-02-S1-commons.u47	None, Mr. Polakis. Go if you want from there and tell them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-02-S1-commons.u48	For the 130 million neither did you respond, as did Mr Vorides. One hundred and thirty million euros are missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-02-S1-commons.u49	Mr. Polakis, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-02-S1-commons.u50	Bring them into paper with the 130 you say they're missing, with proof, with the paper...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-02-S1-commons.u51	Mrs. Arabatzis' inability to answer where the EUR 130 million went is so ridiculous...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-02-S1-commons.u52	Neither Mrs. Arabatzi nor Mr. Vorides...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-02-S1-commons.u53	...who landed it in that I'm the anembolic. Look, Mrs. Arabatzis, tell your government to bring the drugs, because we would have saved the six and a half thousand dead of the twelve thousand five hundred...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-02-S1-commons.u54	What you're saying has nothing to do with the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-02-S1-commons.u55	Why, did her answer have anything to do with it? I'm telling her that 130 million of farmers' subsidies are missing, and she tells me about the vaccines.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-02-S1-commons.u56	Please! It's over, Mr. Polakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-02-S1-commons.u57	Mr President, because you respect the Rules of Procedure and I know that, I would like to say that Mr Polakis' question was specific. What he said in his denture was irrelevant, unnoticed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-02-S1-commons.u58	Infinitely?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-02-S1-commons.u59	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-02-S1-commons.u60	It was full documentary. I'll get it back.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-02-S1-commons.u61	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-02-S1-commons.u62	I don't think so, Mr. Polakis, that you'd mind what I told you about the vaccines. This is where SYRIZA has "emptied" you. If we don't have a pandemic, we have to have an immunity wall.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-02-S1-commons.u63	Mr. Tsipras, Mr. Tsakalotos, Mr. Xanthos, has "emptied" you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-02-S1-commons.u64	Mrs. Arabatzis, Mr. Polakis, please both!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-02-S1-commons.u65	The 130 million are missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-02-S1-commons.u66	Mr. Polakis, Mr. Vorides didn't answer you for 130.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-02-S1-commons.u67	That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-02-S1-commons.u68	What to do now! Next time. Ask again a question. We are now moving on to the first with number 905/28-6-2021, a topical question by the Member of the Heraklion Parliament of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Support measures for apiculture and the implementation of the aid programme for the beekeepers of Crete". Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for two minutes to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-02-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Mr President. Because my name was mentioned earlier, I have to say that in 2014, at last, the country acquired a definition for the forest, with a scientific processing, which enabled our country to clarify a matter that it was a year old. Under the same law, management plans for pastures were planned for the next five years. Unfortunately, nothing happened. However, the definition of the forest given in 2014 and all the actions of the Greek State led to a judgment of the European Court of Justice in 2020, a return to all the fines paid by the country, about 400 million. So what we can see today is the 400 million that have been returned to the country if they have to be exploited in the agricultural sector or not. And I come from this to my question, which concerns beekeeping, a sector in the agricultural sector which has been very severely affected by the pandemic. And before the pandemic there were issues with apiculture about climate change, the changes that have occurred in the conditions. And the pandemic has come to make it difficult - because of the restrictive measures taken by the government to deal with the pandemic - to move, therefore, and the normal development of the flocks, so that we also have a reduction in production on that ground. So what I ask the government to do is to strengthen the beekeeping industry. We have already discussed with the Minister of Finance and said that a draft joint ministerial decision has been prepared and is in the Ministry of Rural Development. We therefore specifically ask the Minister whether this plan will provide for aid, according to what the Minister of Finance said, or whether the Ministry of Rural Development considers that there should be greater aid per hive. Because the sum of EUR 3,39 per hive, announced, is too small to deal with the problems arising from the pandemic. We therefore ask for a higher amount, and if it is possible to strengthen the total amount of 3.2 million, for both the islands and Crete, as the Constitution imposes, because the problems are more there, and we want the answers from the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-02-S1-commons.u70	Thank you very much, Mr Kegeroglu. The State Secretary for Rural Development and Food will answer Mr. Fontaine Arabaji. Here, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-02-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleagues, first of all, let us say that I am very pleased that we are discussing the issues of beekeeping, a generally forgotten sector in the past few years, for which, as the head of the Ministry of Rural Development, we attach great importance, by means of actions. I mention the National Electronic Apiculture Register and also mention the cooperation of our Ministry with the Ministry of Digital Governance in order to create the Artemis system, i.e. balances in honey, and the purchase of honey from the hive to the shelf is absolutely transparent. You have had a extensive dialogue on the subject to which you refer with the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Skylakakis, as soon as the day before, who specifically referred to Crete has announced to you that beekeepers have suffered an income loss from the ten million three hundred and sixty thousand euros in about nine million, eight nine hundred for accuracy. This loss, as the Minister has told you, has been partly covered by repayable advances. Of course, there is the provision made by the Ministry of Rural Development to strengthen the beekeeping sector for the loss of income suffered by the koruna. This proposal, along with the proposal for black pigs, pigs and lavenders, have left the European Commission for approval on 17 June, i.e. not even thirteen days back. The relevant KHS with the sum of 3,200,000, as Mr. Skylakakis said, is ready. We expect the European Commission's approval - standard - to strengthen the beekeepers' sector with EUR 3,39 per hive, as defined by the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-02-S1-commons.u72	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-02-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr President. The big issue, apart from climate change and local climate crises that are taking place, is Hellenism, which I think should be on top of the next time. The register and balance will help, but it is not enough, unless we show perseverance, and if the relevant services are not at regional level too. With regard to the aid, which is considered to be covering the 2019 sales, the damage to the production of 2020 will be mainly, Minister, in 2021, because in 2020 we are essentially talking about invoking the production of the previous year which is available in the next year. We therefore have a phase-out difference in drawing on the accounts, the official figures, the damage that is being done today. In this sense, it's not just the damage 1 million. It's much more and you'll see it in 2021. It will also show this because there has been a reduction in production due to the fact that they have not developed in accordance with the rules on beekeepers and are moving the flocks into places in accordance with the conditions which contribute to their development. That was not because of the bans. We had a reduction in production and will therefore be reflected in the next period. What we are asking is that there should be an increase in the amount, on the one hand, to cover the whole country and not just Crete, and, on the other, that special care be taken for the islands and Crete, with a higher amount per hive. Why are we asking for this? Why is he a localist? Oh, no. The benefit of the Constitution is, of course, general, but it lies in the fact that a small island, but also Crete which has little potential, because we have agricultural land at a very large rate, has transport problems. So when the state comes and forbids the municipality from moving to a municipality, which has taken place in many cases, this is very difficult. Of course, there was no ban throughout this pandemic. It was only during certain periods and then resolved in various ways. We therefore want special care for the islands and Crete and, of course, an increase in the total amount so that there is no need for a second package of support in the apiculture sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-02-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Mr Kegeroglu. Mrs. Arabaji, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-02-S1-commons.u75	Mr. colleague, I am very pleased that you welcome the Ministry's initiative to deal with the scourge of Hellenism, effectively making the digital recording of all the beekeeping activity and the balances in honey, which is really a pioneer for the industry. I'm so glad you recognize it. You understand that as far as the small Aegean islands are concerned, this regulatory framework, Mr Colleague, dates from 1993, when the particular problems faced by the agricultural sector in the smaller Aegean islands by reason of their remote, island, frontier status and, of course, you know very well that they do not include Evia and Crete. I'm sure you know that. It makes sense, Mr Colleague, that you also ask the Ministry, if the cash were available infinitely and infinitely, perhaps we would have opportunities - within the framework of the financial resources available - to pay better compensation than those which come out. In any case, however, we must lose income, so that we can converging with the regulatory framework and not have the issues of recoveries, the loss of income directly linked to the coronary, should be shown on the market that there was a reduction in sales, a reduction in turnover. I will reply to you, Mr Colleague, that, although beekeeping has been afflicted and the issue is that an unpaid sector has to be haunted and damaged. It was a very difficult process, Mr President. At the same time, however, in Greek exports, which increased by 50% - there is honey - in the value of sales via the supermarket channel, we had 16% increase, because the world also turned because of the coronary into the beneficial properties of honey. As for the movements that you have said before, yes, the coronary created the difficulties which we all know. But you will remember very well, because you are very closely following the agricultural issues, that there was a special form from the Civil Protection to move beekeepers. In any case, my dear fellow Member, 3.5 million was granted by the returnee to the beekeepers in the country already. Another 3.2 million will be provided by the Coronary Aid, which we expect from the European Commission, and it is a matter, as I have said, of some days' formal approval. What matters to say, Mr Colleague, is this. Because you say so in your question that beekeepers do not receive subsidies. It is well known: there are no beekeepers in the European Union. But there is the well-known beekeeping programme, which you know very well. This programme, Mr Colleague, increased by 100%. In other words, with a recent amendment to the relevant regulation, beekeepers for 2021 and 2022 instead of 6.5 million will, in fact, take 12.325 million. I think it is a necessary and due economic breath to the apiculture sector, with all the financial instruments that we have described. In relation to what you said - and I am closing down with that - that the damage will then appear, Mr President, to understand that, if we were not as quickly as possible to reflect the damage in question, to categorise the apiculture dossier in question and to its mission to both the Ministry of Finance and the European Commission, you would ask us here - and rightly so - that we did not do what we had to do. We have faced the problem in the middle of the pandemic. What loss of income was created? That's why we came here, we haunted and argued. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-02-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Arabaji. Have a good day to both of you! We move on to the second debate under No 902/28-6-2021 on a topical question by the Member of the Hercules of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Theodoros Livanios, on "The poor relative and the Government of New Democracy" on regional television. Direct and substantial support measures are imposed’. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-02-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, regional television has been facing and facing major problems. I must say in advance that, after taking over responsibility from you, there has been progress on a number of issues that have been raised for some time, mainly related to burdens and unequal treatment in relation to national channels, but the 'virus' has reappeared. I don't know if he's a coroner or something. About a month ago, the government activated a digital platform for the access of residents of the 'white' areas that do not currently have access to the channels of pan-Hellenic scope. This does not include regional channels at all. A process was carried out with a questionnaire to the municipalities, to the regions with a national label, the central channels alone, overlooking that while the 'white' areas are 5% for regional channels there is much more. The Hellenic Region's Information Television Association is talking about unfair, irrational and illegal exclusion and I think it is right. We need to see how we can be treated equally on regional television. They are businesses and instruments which make a substantial contribution to information, pluralism and entertainment. They focus on the substance of the information on both regional and local issues. While we politicians and myself personally tell me about morning lines, at the same time they tell me about the information they had from the regional media at night. There is a different quality which also lies in the fact that time may be different in the region, but quality in relation to the target. There have therefore been steps, but much more needs to be done and, above all, there should be no exclusions. That's the essential thing. They call on these instruments to speed up the licensing process you have announced and legislated for 2022. For this programme we want to see if you intend and how to restore the exclusion of regional television from the platform that will ensure access for residents of areas outside television coverage. Obviously, we're not just talking about 5%. The proportion of regions that do not have access to regional channels is much higher. Secondly, we want you to tell us whether the general policy of which you have shown samples in the previous period to strengthen regional television will continue and with what additional and immediate measures you will continue to express this policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-02-S1-commons.u78	Thank you very much, Mr Kegeroglu. The Deputy Minister will answer the Prime Minister Theodoros Lebanon. Here, Mr Levanie, you have three minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-02-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mr Kegeroglu, I think it is unnecessary to say - and we said this in February, when we discussed the bill - how important regional television is and to inform people about local issues, but also about the role it has in the daily lives of citizens, especially the region. We start from the first point of view of the 'white' regions. The Ministry of Digital Governance through a joint ministerial decision signed, took the initiative and actually opened the programme of the 'white' regions for the first time, continuing a programme launched by the previous government - the legislative framework, if you like - which concerns a percentage of the population which, in particular, because of the geomorphological conditions that the country has, cannot catch a television signal with the traditional antenna we have in our homes. What was the solution? The solution was obvious. We need to use satellite providers, as Cosmote is currently broadcasting to Greece. Cosmote's 'bouquet' has a series of channels, including the national channels, the private, has the ERT, it has several of its own sports channels, movie channels and a part of the 'bouquet' of about sixty - seventy channels - if I'm not mistaken - which emit on its platform is ten regional channels. So these ten channels together with the national range channels and ERT have access. There is no technical alternative transmission of programmes. The dilemma is very simple. Or they would see no television at all - if it is possible, because it is not possible everywhere - changes in transmitters or would see these channels as absolutely necessary to prevent them from being completely detached from information. I would like to point out that the broadcasting of the television signal throughout Greece is via 'Digea'. Anybody who catches a national channel somewhere gets a regional channel. There are no two different transponders. It is the same transponder, the same digital spectrum, so this separation is not necessary. This is very important because it enables information and access to channels in particular national scope and to the 10 regional broadcasters in the 'bouquet'. Obviously, any regional channel wants to enter the "bouquet" of the particular provider, can do so, as others have done. With regard to support measures, starting from the large package of over 40 billion euros provided for the pandemic period and supporting in particular enterprises, there was no differentiation or exception from channels, media in general, but in particular regional television channels. For example, they have entered the programs of the repayable advances, in the part of the 'COMPAN - WORK', in the part of the suspension of tax liability if they maintain the jobs and the whole support package, which was in force for almost all companies affected by the pandemic. What else did we do specifically for regional TV? Four things. Firstly, we excluded regional television from 1.5% of the contribution to the development of cinematographic art. Secondly, for two years we have excluded regional television and only regional television from 5% of the advertising tax that the channels receive, an important economic breath which has been done specifically for regional television and especially for its support. Thirdly, we are implementing the support programme of the type where this programme was incorporated by us and by regional television, like radio stations, a programme which will grant the contributions that they have paid to the EAFRD about EUR 20 million. In the past few days, this action has been submitted to the European Commission in order to obtain the approval that it does not fall within the limit of State aid and by the end of the year either the sums paid to the EAFRD on behalf of the channels that owe them or the channels, if these channels have already paid the contributions to the EAFRD, will have been paid in cash in order to make better use of them. It is a fair criterion of aid based on the turnover of each instrument, which is horizontal, that is to say, it has too many media throughout Greece and it is a criterion that will also give a real breath. It's about 20 million euros. Mr President, I would like to close by the fourth measure, especially for the media, which was the possibility of regulating in the EAFRD all other contributions. Apart from 2% there were also employers' contributions or contributions that they should have paid for whatever reason in this fund. In fact, in the next few days a legislative arrangement will come to ease even further and speed up the process. They can go in seventy-two instalments of their media debts, and obviously the regional TV channels are also in place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-02-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Mr Levanne. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-02-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, you know that the problems of regional television have existed for a number of years. The previous government was devastated. The problems had accumulated. They recognise and recognise the means themselves that some steps have been taken in some areas but unfortunately others remain unresolved. And that doesn't have to justify going back. I believe that only the questionnaire question sent for the investigation to identify the 'white' areas, which channels of pan-Hellenic scope are caught or not caught in every place, shows a different approach. We have a large number of regional channels, regional stations which do not belong to 5% or to the system that will operate to cover the 'white' areas. There's a matter. You need to consider how this can be dealt with. I'll testify again to something I think you have. Unless it hasn't reached you. It is the letter of the Hellenic Region Information Television Association on the subject. It substantiates and speaks of the different unequal treatment and unfair treatment of regional television. I am focusing on this to see whether a solution can be found with this programme or with complementarity. No one says that it is risky to endure or not to be financed or to be programmed. But we cannot leave the information on regional channels out of the way that I think you also recognised and referred to the House beforehand seems to have an important information role for the citizens. And not just. It has special features in every place because it also deals with regional and local issues, which is missing and you can't find it from other means. So we have a problem. The state decided to solve this, but it only solves it for half. It came to my mind and other cases that not only solved but also fines when there are technical problems because of geomorphology. But it is not your responsibility and I will address Mr Pierrakakis in this regard. It's about the radio. Because of peculiarity, geology has a technical problem. So here, to focus, I would like your commitment if you are willing to see how the problem of regional television can be solved and what stations there is. That's the request. Of course, there should be a more general preparation so that the tender you have said will take place in 2022 - you have not just said, it has already been legislated - that we should not be postponed and put into normal and licensed operation nowadays. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-02-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Mr. Lebanon, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-02-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr President. I wouldn't mind giving you any commitment you want if there was a technical solution. There's no technical solution. The technical solution is to get the regional stations into the 'Cosmote' bouquet. This must be done by the stations themselves. If they want to do it, they can. Unfortunately, there is no other solution. We have taken this as a government and a Ministry of Digital Governance as far as possible. It is a programme implemented by the Ministry of Digital Governance and is a programme that we have really tried to see. There was obviously no case for blocking regional television. As regards the questionnaire to which you have referred, I have explained that it is the same broadcasting centres. It's just the intensity of the signal. There's no differentiation. You either catch all the channels or you don't get anyone. It's common for transmitters to transmit the signal. Indeed, at the end of 2022 the competition will have been completed and there will be authorisations in regional areas after an exhaustive dialogue that will begin. The first meeting of a committee to deal with the subject of radios and their licensing begins in the week before us. Another painful story, too. There is, in fact, a long way to go, as long as there is free broadcasting. The first part to deal with the committee, which is the main one, is the part of the technical issues, such as antennas, frequency maps and all that is central to the National Telecommunications Commission and Post and the General Secretariat for Telecommunications. This committee will soon come to an end. We've given a deadline for the conclusion by November 30th. Then there will be a dialogue to resolve the issue of licensing radio stations where there are too many problems and many details that need to be worked out in depth. In any case, what I can tell you is that we are in constant dialogue, especially with regional media, regional press and regional television, recognising the central role they have in particular in the region. It's very important. You said that, too. Citizens are informed about local issues either by local newspapers, local radios or regional channels. De facto an action such as the one that the Municipality of Heraklion has done for example is very difficult to find space on pan-Hellenic channels, if it is not very special, rather than on regional television. We are in dialogue with all regional bodies, and we will soon end up and resolve the licensing piece. I think it is something which we owe first of all to all people who are currently in the field of regional information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-02-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, too. Have a good day to both of you. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-02-S1-commons.u85	With the consent of the House at 10.01; the sitting on Monday 5 July 2021 at 14.00 is closed, on the subject of the proceedings of the House: a) parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent debate
