ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-22-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. The meeting's on. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 21-9-2021, the minutes of its PD session of Tuesday, 21 September 2021 with regard to the vote on the entire draft law were ratified by the Bureau: ‘The Statute of the Legal Council of State (NCCC) and the situation of its officials and servants and other provisions’.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS In writing, the Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs informs the House that we will now consider two topical questions. We will not discuss the first question of the first cycle of the SYRIZA MEP - the Progressive Alliance of Alexandros - Christou Auslonitis to the Minister of the Interior, on "Control in TA Recruitment Calls, which do not fulfil the principle of sovereignty and equal opportunities". Following this, we enter the second with number 1073/20-9-2021, a topical question from the F Vice-President of the Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece, George Lambroulis, to the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "The MEPs and their families once again victims of the protocols – rubber and the anti-scientific and contradictory decisions of the Government". Mr Domna - Maria Michailidou will be answered by the State Secretary for Labour and Social Affairs. Here, Mr. Lambroulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-22-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. At the end of August with two Circulars of the Ministry of Labour, the mandate was in fact directed, not to be accepted in the LEADER and in the LEADER Centres for Disabled Adults and Children who have not been vaccinated. This decision, combined with the suspension of contracts for uninformed workers in social structures, has brought thousands of families desperately, thereby seeking the government to actually hide its refusal to take genuine measures to protect them from the pandemic for the well-being and supporters, as well as the workers of these structures. At the same time, it states its refusal to organise specialised and targeted information based on the specificities of these families, but also of these structures for the need for vaccination. Indeed, on the basis of these circulars, there is a contradiction here: in special schools and in private special education centres, the invasive population is able to go with self-tests or other kinds of tests, such as in typical schools, special schools and private structures, whose population is comparable to the population of CIFs, but also CIFs. Therefore, Mr President, the questions to the Ministry, to the Government, are whether they will withdraw the specific circulars that exclude the unvaccinated SME from the specific structures and the decisions that have been suspended by workers who have not been vaccinated at the same places. Secondly, what measures will the government, the Ministry, in the direction of integrated and specialised information from experts in families, but also from workers from these structures for the imperative need for vaccination, while, of course, ensuring all necessary protection from the coronary by opening up new structures, recruitment of permanent staff, in order to achieve the dilution of the population of children and adults who participate in CIDs and CIDs.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-22-S1-commons.u3	Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-22-S1-commons.u4	Mr President, Mr Papoutsis, the government and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs have been in a very concrete way since the very beginning of the pandemic. In particular, as far as disabled people and elderly people are concerned, as are the most vulnerable of us, we have created a very specific strategy of measures, which is adapted to two things at a time: first, in the weapons we have in our hands and, second, in the particular conditions of the pandemic, as it is shaped every time. Let's see what we've done. We started by making the strictest protocols across Europe for the operation of structures. We have made the primary vaccination of vulnerable people within their own structures, while with the help of EGE we have sent workshops within the structures themselves, so that the daily lives of our most vulnerable fellow citizens do not change and are vaccinated since January. Because I have heard you talk about staff, we have increased staff in our public structures by 1/3, compared to the moment we received, so we have shielded them with the necessary staff, so that the shifts will also come out, but also the beneficiaries will have the services that the state must provide them. We have also equipped all structures with rapid test and free masks, while what we are doing now, with a good, effective and safe vaccine, is that we have made vaccination mandatory for the benefit and workers of these structures. And that to defend their health, of course, as we have done since the beginning of the pandemic. That choice really justed us. We have shielded our closed and open structures much better than any other European country. Today, beyond all expectation, we really have the best weapon, the vaccine. So our only obligation is to be vaccinated. To be vaccinated for ourselves, to be vaccinated for our family, to be vaccinated to build a wall of immunity throughout the country, and above all to get all of us vaccinated, because we have already done something to protect the most vulnerable. These are the elderly and the LEADER. It is encouraging that the vast majority of the political leadership of this area is in line with vaccination and has been vaccinated itself. However, there is a 'yes, we are vaccinated', but also a 'yes'. We like the vaccine, we believe in the vaccine, it is documented, but we do not want the vaccination of people working in structures to be mandatory. We are in favour of the vaccine, but we do not want the most vulnerable to be vaccinated, who are at risk of their own lives, but also with very difficult hospitalisation if they suffer from the pandemic. [[At this point, the ending bell of the speaking time of the Mrs. Secretary is ringing.]] Mr President, please give me a minute. So, actually, what's asking for a piece of counterpopulation is to behave like there's no vaccine. We do not do that for three reasons. We are not doing this because from the outset we have chosen to protect the lives and health of the most vulnerable. We are not doing this because we need the sustainability of these structures. If disability structures put in unvaccinated children, then we risk closing every three minutes. I, as I always receive calls with requests similar to yours, always accept the shouting of agony among all those parents who have vaccinated their children who have been disabled, knowing how important the vaccine is for them and have a terrible anguish about what will happen if the state ends up with all these undocumented pressures and leaves within the structure of children, which are inconsistent, so that structures are closed down every three and a few minutes. So, that's the second reason, the sustainability of the structures. The third reason is, of course, our attempt to avoid a new pandemic wave. We have said clearly as a government that we are not going to move to a new lockdown. So what we need is to ensure the sustainability of our structures, and public health in all places. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-22-S1-commons.u5	Here, Mr. Lambroulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-22-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. I listened carefully to the Minister, but he did not answer the specific first question that we raised in the prototype. Will you or won't you withdraw these Circulars? That is the first request made in the question. Let us look specifically at what results your choice has, in other words, with regard to circulars. Firstly, the expulsion, in essence outside structures, children and adults with disabilities, but also, of course, the re-invigoration of these vulnerable groups. You're actually closing in their homes. Secondly, the cost of education and responsibility will be borne by the family itself, forcing them, in fact, to take customers to the private centres. Thirdly, it leads at the same time to the shrinking or, if you like, to the closure of these structures, i.e. the CDIs and CIPs. This is the case, at the same time that you are well aware that the specific families of adults and children with disabilities, in addition to the other problems created by the pandemic, such as in all families, throughout the country, experience insecurity and fear in front of the unknown, but also the fact that they are often dependent on various experts who in many cases recommend to children with some sort of disability to avoid vaccination. So away from us what has been said - I do not know if you want to do so more specifically in your dentistry - on counter-population and vaccination. As a party, we were clear and indeed vaccinated with regard to the members and members of the party are an example for all Greek people and for the government's practice and tactics. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Vice-President hits a warning bell.]] So your circular is another dangerous link to your unacceptable, dangerous and criminal policy, namely civil responsibility in dealing with pandemic. This is because you are trying to hide behind encyclopedias such as the specific or behind the law on mandatory vaccinations for workers in the various services, the provocative lack of measures to protect the people, and the unacceptable state of the dangerously secured public health sector, the almost non-existent primary health care, the lack of substantial information on vaccines and vaccinations, as well as the contradictory locations and measures that leave the people exposed to pandemic, as well as the treatment of all their other needs, such as medical care. In fact, while you do nothing to deal with these problems, you come - as a government I mean - and you move the finger on the people, workers and SMEs to accept this policy. Otherwise, you either fly out of structures the HEIs or, as you are already implementing, you are suspending work and cutting workers' wages, proving that the timeless anti-popular policy of both the previous governments and your own has no bottom. The convenient setting for the government of vaccinated and unvaccinated, which is also fuelled by the government itself, aims precisely at overcoming its own responsibilities and public responsibilities for the rubber protocols, for the lousy public health system, both before and during the pandemic, the 'gifts' to health entrepreneurs, to the detriment of people's needs. We say, therefore, that we naturally call on the workers, the people, the families of AMEs to incorporate the claim for full and safe vaccination in order to protect their health and life in the struggle for a modern state and free health system without any business action. Along with what is the main ones, we invite him to remove from the government the opportunity to use the "vaccinated and invasive" as a smokescreen, to hide all the essential popular problems and to health care. Once again, Minister, we demand that you withdraw your unacceptable circulars. Finally - and we have said and put it in our timely question - take measures, firstly, to provide comprehensive and specific information by experts on the families of children and adults in the CSR, but also on workers of CSR, CSR, CSR, to urgently need vaccination and, secondly, to ensure all necessary protection from the coronary with the opening of new structures, to recruit similar staff to achieve the dilution of children, adults, i.e. the hosts. That is what we want you to say in concrete terms. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-22-S1-commons.u7	Here you go, Mrs. Michalidou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-22-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Lambroulis, start with this. You are right, that is, the deviation that our Government has from Accuracy Opposition on matters of responsibility for public life and public health, but also essential parliamentaryism, is much greater than our Government has with the Communist Party of Greece. So, yes, when I was addressing the part of the denial of vaccination, I was not addressing the JRC, but the Civic Opposition and a number of regrettable members of it. Now we're having a conversation and I hear and I read your questions like there's no vaccine. Really, our conversation is like there's no vaccine.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-22-S1-commons.u9	Is that what you understand, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-22-S1-commons.u10	You're telling me...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-22-S1-commons.u11	We proved it in practice.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-22-S1-commons.u12	Mr. Lambroulis, we're trying to have a structured conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-22-S1-commons.u13	But that's what's coming out? Where did you see that?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-22-S1-commons.u14	If you'll let me...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-22-S1-commons.u15	Let him answer, Mr. Lambroulis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-22-S1-commons.u16	You see I answer as well as I can. So the debate is as if there is no vaccine. Why am I saying that? You address me and say: "The normality and daily life of disabled people and their families is disturbed, as you say, "the circular", but let me correct it is not the circular, but the law of July 26th. Since the Act of 26 July, this Parliament has voted on the mandatory vaccination of both workers and new imports into the closed and open disability and MEDA structures. So you say that "since this circular exists", I tell you it's a law, a technical thing that is, "the children can't have their everyday lives, because we exclude them from the structures of CIFs and CIFs. " No, these kids can't have their daily lives because they can't be vaccinated. That's the truth, that they can't have their daily lives because they don't get vaccinated. There's all the scientific evidence. I would like to present a paper from the American Paediatric Society, which sent me a child with mental disability, who is also in the range of autism, which was very anxious not to take our policy back, we are opening up the structures and the non-vaccinated children, because the same thing as this great difficulty had vaccinated her child within a structure, happy that we sent EGE’s workshops into the structure so that the daily life of her child would not be disturbed and she was very anxious not to take us as irresponsible state back our prefecture and let other children get in so that the structure and every three and a little close. So what does this publication of the American Paediatric Society, which the Bioethics Committee and Mrs Theodoridou, say, the chairman of the Committee on Vaccines? You talked to me before about briefing me. Do you know that within the snow I had taken Mrs Theodoridou and went to structure - structure, within the snow in February, to update for hours standing outside, because all the workers in our structures were not allowed indoors? The President of the Committee on Vaccines, not only the national campaign that the state makes, not only the information we send as a Ministry, the chairman of the Committee on Vaccines himself had gone to inform workers and families on the issue of safety, but also the effectiveness of the vaccine. So what do we say? We cannot close these structures. What's the scientific community telling us? The scientific community tells us two things: that this vaccine is too safe for everyone. We have provided the whole country with three-way committees in each health region, so that, where there is a health problem for children with disabilities, they can resort to this committee, object and be legally excluded from vaccination. We have anticipated that too. There are such committees with specialist doctors all over the country. They can do it if these kids have a health problem. But the second and most important thing that this publication tells us is that, firstly, these children are at risk a lot more and if they catch the virus, then their hospitality will be much more difficult and it is likely that they will end up in death, far more than the people of formal development and, secondly, they will have a very difficult hospital. Persons with mental disability or who are in the range of autism or who have neurodevelopment disorders are hospitalized much harder, much more difficult for themselves, cannot wear oxygen masks. It is much more difficult for them to consult with the nurses and doctors who will tell them what to do during their hospitalization. We can't see such images and I'm sure you don't want to see coercion images in the hospitals either. So all we can do, having the safest and most effective measures in our hands, is to have our structures sustainable and open only for those who are vaccinated. And those who, for medical reasons, are not able to appeal to the special health committees, which we have already anticipated and operate. This is to ensure and ensure the sustainability of structures, the health of children and the everyday life of their families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-22-S1-commons.u17	We move on to the third with number 1069/20-9-2021 in the first cycle of MP B2' Western Athens Department of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arsenis to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: “Strengthening and permanentization of cleaning staff in the schools of western Athens”. The Minister for the Interior will answer Mr. Voridis. Mr Arseni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-22-S1-commons.u18	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, Mr President, I would like to say that it honours you yourself to answer the questions, which is rare for your colleagues. In Aegleau, we have a document which I will table in the Minutes, with which the association of parents and guardians tells us that in sixty-eight school buildings there are thirty-seven full-time cleaners and seventeen-three-hours. In other words, we have about two cleaners per three buildings. It is found that day-to-day kindergartens operate with one cleaner with three hours of work. The association rightly tells us that it is not possible to clean up and disinfect all schools, teaching rooms, workshops, toilets, public spaces, at every break before the previous course, but also after the end of the daily operation of schools, as required by EGE's health protocols. The question actually arises is whether the EAFRD protocols apply or apply only to private individuals. In public schools, are we applying them or are they public ghetto schools for non-preferential? This is where local government responds to the issue. At the meeting of the board of directors of the CEDEFOP, President Papastergiu says he gave the Ministry the same money last year, about 85 million, and that he shared the squares, so that there would be more proportionately and justice in how the cleaners would be distributed to the municipalities that would take the money for cleaning. But the problem is, he explains, that the average is about sixty square feet per man hour. I don't know, Minister, if you've cleaned up a house or an office. I don't think it's humanly possible for a man to clean up a hundred sixty square feet. It's impossible. He can do a pasale, but he can face the coronary with a hundred sixty sq. sq. s. a man hour is impossible. The CEDEFOP's progress is asking us to find 20 million to meet these needs. These 20 million people are asking you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-22-S1-commons.u19	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-22-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. What has happened this year, and what has been done this year as a result of a specific choice, which we made in the matter of school cleaning. It is worth saying that when we took this decision this year on school cleanliness, the left parties vanished in August, because the cleaners would have been less than their wages, and cleanliness would have been worse than last year or earlier. I will tell you the result of what we have done and then I will tell you and why this has happened. The result of what we have done was the number of people who have been proclaimed under the PSF increased by a thousand eighty-five, ninety-five people, that is, plus 20% last year, compared with those who joined the 2020 PSF. The number of hours of daily employment increased by 22%, i.e. ten thousand per cent of three. Of these three hundred twenty-one municipalities, more than half of them, eighty-one, decided to increase working hours, beyond the maximum set by the 2021 PHS. What does that practically mean? Let's go to full-time and part-time. With full employment, there has been an increase of five hundred and fifty-six last year, plus 11%, and the number of people with part-time employment, with less than six hours, amounted to five thousand eighty-five, i.e. an increase of three hundred and thirty-nine from last year. Why am I telling you this, Mr Arseny? To tell you that with what we did this year, schools get cleaned up better. There's an increase of 20%. How much money did we give last year with SYRIZA? We gave $55 million. How much money did we give last year with New Democracy? We gave 87 million. How much money did we give this year? We gave 87 million. Will Mr Arsenis, who is excellent in mathematics, ask: How do we get the same money this year? How'd that happen? How's it going? Answer: The law, Mr Arsenis, has allowed the institutional framework to do so. But does the law give rise to money? No, but it shapes conditions. What is the institutional framework this year? Listen, Mr Arseni, in SYRIZA's day. In fact, a central distribution was made unorthodoxly. The State, the Ministry of Interior, decided how many will go to each full-time municipality and how many in part. Result: Voices, trouble, not enough, there was no flexibility. What did the institutional framework that we formed at the Ministry of the Interior this year? Listen. Mr President, we have collected all the squares of all the rooms to be cleaned up from all over Greece with evidence from the Ministry of Education and cross-checked the service - which I must say has done an excellent job, uniquely, difficult and very demanding - with the information provided by the municipalities. From the Ministry of Education's data, the difference was 0.7%. We're kind of compressed, but where? All over. The internal breakdowns per municipality were quite differentiated. What did that mean? Some municipalities in the past were favored, some municipalities were wronged. Now, then, it is rationally allotted. No one can complain. Everyone's got what it's supposed to be. Be careful, however, we did something else. What did we say? We have given all the employees a municipality can hire 35% higher than last year. How did this succeed? By giving everyone part-time and at the same time giving the opportunity - to whom now, Mr President? - to the mayor decide who wants full and who wants partial, so flexibility in the municipality, so better effect, Mr Arseni. So what did we say in addition? That if the municipality wants to use its own resources over the money that the state gives to add something to improve school efficiency and cleanliness, it has the potential to do so. Bright example: The Municipality of Athens had two hundred fifty last year and arrived at five hundred this year. Double the number. Therefore, rational distribution, a fair system, an increase in the possibility of employment at the level of people, a flexibility of distribution to the municipalities and the possibility of increasing the amount. Here's how we got this result, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-22-S1-commons.u21	Mr Arseni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-22-S1-commons.u22	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, you really did a very fair system of sharing poverty. I mean, while it's no longer getting us to pass out at school. The ETA's protocols are very clear about what should be done. You said you hired another part-time world. What's the criterion? You are instructing in an hour each employee to - to get cleansing needs - to clean a hundred sixty squares, which is impossible. You have legislated on the violation of the EGE protocols. You say that a municipality with its own resources can hire more. Which municipalities have the financial capacity to give this money? Which municipalities are not in a very bad state? Let's say it differently. Any municipality that is rich because it has more commercial movement, has better revenue, has it been managed than the previous administration, will it be able to keep the EGE's protocols and the municipalities that have no financial capacity will not keep EGE's public school? You guys have gone to private high school, high school, high school. I don't know, I think. Would you go to such a school if it wasn't sufficiently defined in the middle of a coronary? I don't think anyone would go. Why should the EGE protocols for the coronary be applied to private individuals and not be given these 20 million who are also told by the mayors that they are needed? Which isn't much to be honest. For what we are facing and for a situation that we have one in three children today, 20 million is not a significant amount. For the current situation that many of the sick need hospitalization, it is not a significant sum of 20 million. That money we're asking you for. The EGE's protocols should also be applied in the public schools, in Agaleo and everywhere. I also put to you the letter of thirty-one association of workers in the cleanliness of school buildings which explains exactly how poverty is shared, instead of actually getting cleanliness.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-22-S1-commons.u23	When is this letter?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-22-S1-commons.u24	It's August's letter.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-22-S1-commons.u25	Why was it not repeated after the results were obtained?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-22-S1-commons.u26	Yes, however, the letter from the parents and guardians of Agaleau is very recent and problems remain the same. So we have day-to-day kindergartens with a cleaner for three hours, when kindergartens know that infants and infants touch everything, you can't stop them, that's where there are cleaning needs. So the situation, Minister, hadn't changed. I think that you should respond positively to this request. It's self-evident. We live the fourth pandemic wave. Public schools must be shielded, at least as do private schools. Leave the comparison. They must be armored. To apply the EAFRD's protocol on cleanliness as much as it costs us. Tomorrow, when we're probably leading to a quarantine, it's gonna cost us a lot, hundreds of millions, every day it's gonna cost us, so really give these 20 million before we get to a dead end right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-22-S1-commons.u27	Good. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-22-S1-commons.u28	It is a problem when there are, in fact, monologues and there is no such interactive dialogue. I've explained that we have a 20% increase in the level of cleanliness. Did you hear that or not? Did you hear that? Are you with us?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-22-S1-commons.u29	(...not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-22-S1-commons.u30	20%, I've been telling you, since last year. How much do you want to raise it? By 50%? I told you that 55 million was the money that was being given and because of the coronary went to 87 million. That's not a 20% increase, it's a 40% increase. This year, because of the shape we made, over 40% we have +20%.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-22-S1-commons.u31	The ETA's protocols...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-22-S1-commons.u32	I know exactly what the Left is. If I gave the 20 million you're telling me now, you'd come here and tell me it's not enough, I need another 20 million. By the way, these 20 million, you think I'll give it to the municipalities, right? Do you know that the municipalities have now taken 50 million to deal with the pandemic? When exactly does this stop, sir? Where do you adopt everything without thinking second of all what is it that you adopt? Indeed, the workers' unions made this announcement early in August, when they had made the decision, because they were concerned. Do you know why they were worried? They were concerned that the mayors would make use of the possibility and make them - it says - all part-time. The workers were worried about their income. Because of what I have done, today we have more workers in the whole, more full-time employees than last year and more part-time workers since last year. Did you hear that or not?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-22-S1-commons.u33	The ETA's protocols... (here they are)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-22-S1-commons.u34	The ETA's protocols! So, for the ETA protocols, you will ask the Ministry of Health. You will also ask those who have a responsibility to apply them. I did my job as a Ministry of the Interior?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-22-S1-commons.u35	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-22-S1-commons.u36	No, huh? Because I didn't give the 20 million. Deafness Dialogue! Deaf! I'm telling you, I've increased 40% over the last two years, you can't hear it. I'm telling you, I've got a 20% increase you can't hear it. I've given you 50 million for the city pandemic, you can't hear it. You've heard that you have to come and tell me that I have to give another 20 million. Can I ask you something? Why 20 million? Give us 40 million. That's right, Mr. Arseny. Obviously, we should give 40 million. Why 40 million? I have a better idea, Mr Arseny. Give 80 million. Do you want to give 80 million? Of course you do. Is the taxpayer's money cut off on you? Do you have a sense of budget? Do you understand what responsibility means? Of course not. The irresponsible opposition of the extreme left. Fortunately, you're understood by the cleaners themselves.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-22-S1-commons.u37	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-22-S1-commons.u38	With the consent of the House at 9.53 p.m. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday 23 September 2021 and 10.00 p.m. on the subject of legislative work, according to the supplementary agenda distributed.
