ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Twenty-five years have passed since January 31, 1996 when Christodoulos Karthanasis, Panagiotis Vlahakos and Hector Gialos, three officers of our Navy, fell in favor of the patronage. They were sacrificed in defending the Greekness of the Imia. The Greek Parliament is not forgetting them and honoring them today by keeping a minute's silence in their memory. [[In this respect, I should like to draw your attention to the fact that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks ……]] Immortals!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, good month! I have the honour to announce to this House the following: The Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Ministers for Finance, Development and Investment, Foreign Affairs, Citizen Protection, National Defence, Labour and Social Affairs, Health, Environment and Energy, Culture and Sport, Justice, Home Affairs, Infrastructure and Transport, Maritime and Island Policy and Rural Development and Food, as well as Deputy Ministers of Finance, Development and Investment and Interior submitted drafts on 29-1-2021, law: A. JUDGMENTS OF THE COURT OF JUSTICE AND THE COURT OF FIRST INSTANCE OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES ‘Preparation of the Interim Economic Partnership Agreement between Ghana, of the one part, and the European Community and its Member States, of the other part’. B. Other: ‘Preparation of the Investment Protection Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the SADC EPA States, of the other part’. C. Other: ex II. ‘Preparation of the Agreement for the Protection of Investment between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Vietnam, of the other part’. The Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Minister for Economic Development and Investment, Foreign Affairs, Citizen Protection, National Defence, Education and Religious Affairs, Work and Social Affairs, Health, Environment and Energy, Culture and Sport, Justice, Interior, Infrastructure and Transport, Maritime and Island Policy, Rural Development and Food and State, as well as the Deputy Ministers of Finance, Development and Investment and Home Affairs, have tabled a draft law on 29-1-2021: ‘Movement of the Agreement on the Protection of Investment between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Singapore, of the other part’. The Ministers of Education and Religion, Economic Protection of Citizens, National Defence, Labour and Social Affairs, Health, Environment and Energy, Culture and Sport, Justice, Home Affairs, Infrastructure and Transport, Maritime and Island Policy, Tourism, State, Deputy Ministers of Finance, Interior, and the Deputy Ministers of Civil Protection and Culture and Sport submitted a draft law on 29-1-2021: "Insert to higher education, protection of academic freedom, upgrading the academic environment and other provisions". They shall be referred to the competent Standing Committees. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS In his letter the Secretary-General of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs informs the House that the topical and urgent questions to be debated today are as follows: The numbers. Questions Nos 329/20-1-2021, 339/22-1-2021 and 347/25-1-2021 1432/340/4-11-2020, 2800/17-12-2020, 2824/417/18-12-2020 and 2858/21-12-2020 questions (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) will be answered by the Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Konstantinos Skrekas. No. No. Question No 348/25-1-2021 and Question No 34, by Mr Ephremidis 2598/402/11-12-20 Question (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Health Mr Vassiliou Kontozamanis. The numbers. 334/22-1-2021, 337/22-1-2021, 340/25-1-2021 and 346/25-1-2021 topical questions will be answered by the State Secretary for Labour and Social Affairs Mr Panagiotis Tsakloglou. No. No. 2223/30-11-20 Question (Rule 130(5) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) will be answered by the Secretary of State for Environment and Energy Mr Nikolaos Tagaras. Finally, Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. 1370/2-11-20 Question (under Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) will be answered by the Secretary of State for Environment and Energy Mr Georgios Amyras. Following this, we begin with the first under number 347/25-1-2021, a topical question by MP II Piraeus - Progressive Alliance Mr.Ioannis Ragossis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "New environmental injustice in Schist Perama, Keratini - Drapetsonas. In the midst of the pandemic, with an anti-constitutional legislative initiative of the Minister for the Environment and Energy, a waste transhipment station was licensed, while, by decision of the Regional Authority of Attica, a waste treatment plant is being set up, although the revision of the Attica PSCE is pending, as well as the new law on recycling. The current question by Mr Ragosi will be answered by the Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Konstantinos Skrekas. Mr Ragosi, you have the floor for two minutes to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Skreka, your predecessor, Mr Hatzidakis, a few months ago - very recently - has made two decisions which, I think, could be eloquently labeled as problematic, unfair, in many unconstitutional and - why not? - Scandalous. The first decision, to which I am referring, is the legal authorisation of the Piraeus Municipality waste transhipment station without any consultation, without any consultation with the municipalities concerned. An authorisation was given to this SMA of Piraeus to the administrative limits of the Municipality of Perama - that is to say, an authorisation was made to a municipality's transhipment station to the administrative limits of another municipality - and, in fact, without any compliance with environmental legislation, which, in a way, violates, if anything, Article 24 of the Constitution. At the same time by the Government Committee on PPPs with a decision by the Regional Executive of Attica - so, in fact, with a comprehensive government decision - the construction of a Waste Processing Unit is being promoted at the Schizto of the Municipality of Perama - Keratini - Drapetsonas, while the new recycling law, which is expected to drastically limit the quantities that will end up being processed in such a facility, is for processing, consultation and later in the House to vote, while the regional waste planning in Attica is also being revised. And all this, especially the last ones for the waste treatment plant, with the logic of PPPs, that is, it is clearly a burden on the citizens... I shall conclude, Madam President. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] ...when it is not the only solution - I am ending, Madam President - when it is known that there is really a great potential to raise funds from the Development Fund today, but also from the NSRF at the disposal of the country, that is to say, which would enable these investments to be made with Community funding and not to remove this responsibility from the Ottawa and at the same time to impose citizens. So the question is whether these decisions will be revoked, Mr Screka.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u4	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mr Colleague, for the question you have asked, to put things on the right basis. Indeed, the management of urban solid waste in our country and especially in Attica was and remains one of the biggest problems that we have been called upon as Government after taking office in July 2019 to deal with as well as as as Ministry of the Environment and Energy. Indeed, the situation we have received cannot be described as a paradise. Article 142 of Law 4759/2020 actually refers to the temporary placement in areas already in operation, of urban infrastructure, of public utility facilities and of in particular of waste transhipment stations, the so-called VMS, of eight municipalities in the country. Obviously, it goes without saying that they serve local, municipal needs and are therefore included in the local waste management plans of the municipalities referred to in Article 2 of the Joint Ministerial Decision approving the National Waste Management Plan and the National Waste Prevention Plan. This was done on 15-12-2015 and I should like to point out that it was SYRIZA. The VMSs, waste transhipment plants shall operate under the responsibility of the relevant municipalities, which shall immediately take all appropriate measures to avoid causing noise and atmospheric pollution and environmental degradation, for visual isolation with protective fence and perimeter overlapping of the area with densely high planting and for not inviting adverse effects on health, quietness and safety of the inhabitants and workers. As regards the Waste Processing Unit, ACE, in the Schist's region, it is noted that this should be provided for in the regional waste management plan under review, Attica's RCF. Let us say that it is already foreseen by the previous RCF, which was also drawn up at the SYRIZA Government and the previous leadership of the Attica Region, together with the remaining infrastructure and waste management projects, should thus contribute to achieving the objectives in line with the forecasts of the national waste management plan from 2020 to 2030. Indeed, we believe that the rationalisation of the ETUC will ensure the proper and integrated management of urban complex waste in Attica, and that is why the Single Cross-State Association of Attica, as the statutory NATURA of Attica and responsible for the construction and operation of solid waste treatment facilities and transhipment stations, should launch and implement the necessary projects.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Minister. Mr President, I have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u7	In your reply, Mr Screka, I think some very serious conclusions are drawn. Perhaps the most serious of all is that it was not Mr Hatzidakis' own policy, but it was a central government decision. That is why not only have the decisions taken, but you are in fact defending them today. To understand perhaps, the claim and the argument that this question was made to you will be made even better understandable to you, Mr Skreka: it is like we are currently discussing in Trikala to authorise the transhipment of waste from the Municipality of Karditsa. It is like the time the regional planning of Thessaly changes through the new recycling law, you decide only in Trikala to set up a waste treatment plant for the whole of Thessaly. That is why I also described the whole of Piraeus, the whole of the inhabitants, extremely unfair and scandalous. It is not possible to proceed with waste management in this way. And I want to be very clear to you, because I represent these citizens in the Greek Parliament. It is not their idea or their opinion that "away from us, our waste, should take it from others to manage it". No, they say: “Ours. Here we are dealing with the management.' But what they are defending is their right not to alter Piraeus to the garbage site of Attica, which is what these two specific decisions promote. They have repeatedly said that they want to be part of the solution, but they cannot be done. "We can't be," the residents of Piraeus II, "the garbage dump of Attica", as, Mr. Screka - I tell you - can't be the Trikala the garbage site of Thessaly. The Trikalas cannot become the place where the SMA will be licensed - I repeat - of Cardiff. In this sense, there is no doubt at all that since you did not question the basic elements on which the question I submitted to you, namely, that it is for the regional planning of Attica and, on the other hand, that the recycling law is ready to be promoted and will radically change the landscape, e.g., these decisions cannot remain in force, cannot be reviewed! Normally, if anyone wants to be and operate in accordance with the Constitution, in accordance with the rules of good governance, fair governance towards citizens, these decisions, Mr Screka, will withdraw them. They will not be revoked by a government - and not just by a Minister -, only if it has above it, from Maximos, from the Prime Minister himself, to serve specific interests of certain companies, who want to take these jobs, only if there is one of them "Let things as they are, remain as they are at the moment". Otherwise, they must be changed, these decisions must be withdrawn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u8	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u9	Colleague, we don't want to create garbage. We want to close dumps. The waste disposal site is not a dump. And if you visit such a VMS, you will see that, in fact, the way they are built and operated is not actually understood even from neighboring plots and neighboring facilities that may exist. It is good to visit the SMA in Thessaloniki - Mr. Famelos knows very well - to see what is going on there. And I have to tell you that, in fact, both in Karditsa and Trikala, since everything is well designed and spaced properly, of course, there may be synergies and synergies are not forbidden. We should also promote synergies if we ultimately want to address this big problem that the country has. In other words, imagine what would happen if in the same way as you are dealing with the SMA in Schisto, other municipalities were faced with other areas that are currently supporting the management of the waste from the whole of Attica and so are other counties of Greece, if what you are saying about you, the same was expressed by other citizens, who are currently the recipients of waste not from other municipalities, from the whole of Lefkanopdi. So, here we should not see - I would say so - in a very enclosed way. On the contrary, I fully agree with you that through consultation and dialogue we should sit down and see how we place those points, how we do those interventions that need to be made, so that we can finally solve the problem of waste management in Attica and not just in the rest of Greece. You know that Greece is urago, unfortunately, in terms of waste management and recycling of recoverable materials from mixed urban waste and that this should change. And in the past years since 2014, 2019, 2020, if we look at the data, we haven't had any positive developments or improved things in the country. On the contrary, we have seen that problems have deteriorated. In summary, therefore, the forecast for the construction of a Waste Processing Unit in Piraeus was introduced to the PESAD, in the regional planning of Attica, at the initiative of the previous administration of the Attica Region and of the SYRIZA government. I would remind you that the construction of AEA and ASA will not be charged to the municipalities of the relevant regional units. It is advisable to visit them to see how modern, modern urban waste management sites are. The construction of the plant shall be in line with the objectives and methods of financing the new ECHR and the nature of the Attica RCF will continue to be governed by the logic of decentralised waste management. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, too, Minister. Let's go to the fourth with number 339/22-1-2021 topical question from the First Vice-President of the Parliament and MP Arcadia of the Change Movement Mr. Odyssea Constantinople to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'To withdraw immediately the unacceptable sudden cut in the funds of the Green Fund by 85% intended to deprive the Megalopolis region'. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Madam President. The move by Mr Hatzidakis and the new remodelling of the regions, such as Megalopoli, described them as a cruel and unjust decision. And I'm going right to the point. With the government's signature, the resources of the Green Fund have been reduced by 85% in these areas. In other words, on the basis of the decisions of 2019 and 2020, we are, Minister, from thirty million to five. You're talking about a post-linguistic era, master plan, already prolonged recession. Well, you do - I would say, in introductorys - for free'maggies' saying that you are helping in some things Megalopolis, but in fact at the end, you give him five million in these areas. And I'm asking, Minister, what happened one day before he left to sign this? Is it a central decision of the Government of New Democracy to reduce resources in these areas from thirty million in 2018 and 2019 to five million euros? I am asking you straight away, and I want a clear answer to these areas that you say you have a plan to upgrade, which, of course, you understand, comes into open comparison. I look forward to your answer and thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, too. Come on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u13	The decision, Mr Colleague, to limit the percentage of the sale of the emissions of pollutants to the Green Fund for the degreasement of the energy regions of the country by 6% in 2019 was limited to 1% in 2020. It was a reduction of about twenty-five million euros for just one year. What was the purpose? At the same time, we increased the corresponding percentage to the specific ELPE account, which you know covers the differential change in the price collected by renewable energy sources from the system limit price, from the wholesale market to the point, up to that of the fixed tart that they enjoy. This 6% reduction to only 1% for one year - I repeat - was adopted after it has already been ensured that resources will be assigned to the lignite regions for the period 2022-2027 from national and European resources, from national and European funds, for the draft of a fair budget transition totalling EUR 5 billion with the leverage that will be caused. The reallocation of resources, therefore, for 2020 from the one hand, was considered necessary, as, following a recommendation from the Agency, the APRC and the opinion of the RAE, the special account supporting the RES, where you know that their greatest penetration into the energy mix of the country is also one of the objectives of the European Green Agreement, but also of our Government, would close with a deficit of approximately EUR 300 million. A piece, then, was covered from there. Of course, we are talking about 25 million cuts for a year, when we are talking about these regions today - and we are looking at other possibilities - will influencing more than EUR 5 billion in order to actually achieve what we say, a fair transition. I mean, what? To ensure the necessary investment to create high-paid jobs to cover the jobs lost by the closure of lignite plants and by moving to a much cleaner national economy with a lower carbon footprint. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, too. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u15	Minister, because SYRIZA earlier and then you were unable to control the issue of renewable energy - because he blew it, as you said, in the air, SYRIZA on many levels and in the RES, that is, they owed it to others and you were certainly unable to manage it - who pays it? It is paid by the regions, which need the money, to pass into the fair post-linguistic era. That's great! You're in the same logic on many levels. I will give you a second example. You can say, for example, that the moleculosis of ASAP can go all over western Macedonia. That's what SYRIZA says, but only in Megalopolis. And New Democracy and SYRIZA in the same logic. Fortunately, the Minister is here. Decrease the current across western Macedonia, but only in Megalopoli. But now that you come to the criteria, we say, as PASOK, that it is an escalating honest and fair process. But now that you're coming for no big businessman, you're getting the motives from Megalopolis. We're taking them to other prefectures and across the county. What about you? Where's the law? Where is the follow-up to this whole process? We as PASOK have a specific view: Megalopolis first at 100%, but steep criteria to all. You, Minister, where do you say that? SYRIZA bounces the banquet. The lignite areas are paying for it. You continue the same SYRIZA game, Megalopolis and Western Macedonia pays it again. How's this thing going to happen? You're talking about 5 billion euro liquidity. We'll see until the end, see if there's anything else. I am sorry to tell you, even for one year these 30 million would be very useful for the region. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Vice-President hits the warning.]] I'll finish the garbage case. I asked the Prime Minister and he had come and answered. I can't understand how you agree so much to New Democracy with SYRIZA. Do you remember the garbage in the Peloponnese? And I'm glad that SYRIZA's here, the Minister responsible. We signed it in 2014. SYRIZA then said that this work should not be done, that it is chaotic, that the big people take it. SYRIZA's on his way to work. It comes, then, New Democracy and says it's the wrong project. They asked your MPs. We end up after eight years, Minister, after you have played your games and lost the world and a lot of environmental damage has been lost. We arrived eight years later to sign a project, because SYRIZA and New Democracy could not see the common good and did micropolicy. That is why we are proud of the space, because we had a firm view of it, which touches the world and not just the interests, as you do. I can't tell you anything else, Minister. I am sorry, because Megalopolis and Western Macedonia have been lost by your decision of 25 million euros.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u16	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u17	And they'll receive 4,975,000 euros. Mr Colleague, first of all we agree on something and you will also be called as a Change Movement to respond to something: Do you agree with the government's strategy and the decision by Mr Mitsotakis to move towards a rapid carbonisation of the Greek economy, to lower the environmental footprint, to close the polluting lignite plants that pollute the atmosphere by causing - as much as they contribute - the phenomenon of climate change, the climate crisis, which costs us hundreds of billions of euros to deal with its consequences? That is the question we have to ask. If, therefore, we all respond to this question, after we agree - which I think is almost self-evident, but after we have agreed - on the basis of dialogue and consultation that we should really go to cleaner forms of energy, which are eternal, non-exhaustive, such as lignite, such as coal, such as oil, as gas, since - I repeat - we have to plan from now and not let the next generations of people and the Greeks face the problem, we must plan from now on how we will use cleaner energy than the sun, from wind, from water, from geothermality, so that we can deal with the causes of climate change, but also the consequences of the climate crisis. So then we should come to the point where your question is. We've reduced for a year to 25,000,000 euros. We are ensuring a total of 5 million euros for the next seven years. I think everyone realizes that the balance is positive. Is EUR 5 million enough to create and replace the jobs that will be lost by the closure of lignite plants? That is a question, which will be answered through the work we are going to do. We should be aware that at the first moment we are forming a plan to reconstruct the productive model in these areas that - I repeat - create thousands of well-paid jobs, to deal with the consequences of the closure of the lignite units on the one hand and, on the other, to reverse a more general move of populations from those regions, from western Macedonia, to other regions of Greece and - why not? - and abroad, which was the case before, when the lignite plants were still in operation. These areas are remote areas for the majority of them, apart from Megalopoli, which, of course, will have serious interventions there, but all the rest of them are remote areas that need to be supported and the world stays in their homes and homes, where they were born and where they grew up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, too, Minister. Will the first debate now under number 2800/17-12-2020 of the petitions made by SYRIZA's MEP - Progressive Alliance Mr Socrates Famelou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'Should the Government give an extension for the completion of the applications of the small and medium-sized producers of Renewable Energy (RES) and the Energy Communities?' The question will also be answered by the Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Konstantinos Skrekas. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes to develop the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, we are launching a parliamentary debate on several unfinished matters of the Ministry of the Environment. I hope you've prepared the processes and the answers. I understand it's a start and we're going to have a dialogue. We'll try to help. We do not intend to create a front, but we need to solve several problems, Mr Skreka, and I want to make proposals, we want to make proposals as SYRIZA. The first issue is linked to what you mentioned earlier. It is about RES, renewable energy sources and whether or not the investments of small renewable energy projects will be supported. It is a question, which was put on 17 December, which was not answered and that is why it is coming as timely. I would like to remind you that it follows from Mr Hatzidakis' tragic choice to impose raisins throughout the entire Greek society, because he has quite simply bankrupt the special RES account, ELAP, which has received surplus from the SYRIZA government, and unfortunately I disprove Mr Constantinople, who probably did not know and referred to a deficit on the SYRIZA government. So what do we have in New Democracy? We have an unjust exceptional contribution to all renewable energy projects - second time from New Democracy and 2014 - 'green' end to the fuel oil charged by farmers, transport, citizens, who leave suppliers in the unavoidable, which provides for a reduction in the costs of HNOs. So the first question, Mr Screka, is what you're going to do with the OHIM. Are consumers going to win it or not? There is also a lack of transparency with the medium-voltage companies, which the government has not announced here, what it will do with the charges for a medium-voltage. The second question, then, is this. Mr Hatzidakis did not accept a debate, he brought it as an amendment to the House, we did not see the provisions. However, these reforms also had a serious problem in authorising small projects, Madam President. While with L.4685 you have given a message to the market, you said - I will say a little folk - 'treat dogs', because you said that we are going to go for overheating without rules, everyone can apply for RES everywhere. Then you started thinking - Mr. Hadjidakis, not you, but New Democracy - electrical space, network availability, prices, and thus set a final date on 31 December 2020 for projects that are under 500 KW, including energy communities. Of course, you are driving all these RES into competitive procedures, and when public services in the middle of a pandemic cannot cope with what the evidence says - you will also tell us, Mr Minister - we are talking about many thousand people, they said that there were nine thousand applications pending. At the same time, you have also put the 31-12-2021 deadline for the Operational Aid Convention with the IPPC, which, if lost, is going back to the possibility - if you like - of price. So there are very unfavourable conditions and I close, Madam President, because I will have my second language to talk about the energy communities that you put out of the game. You have cut them the possibility of a privileged connection, you have not taken the ESDP project, now you are putting them into competitive procedures. So the question, Minister - to go to the first stage - is what you will do for small RES projects and for energy communities as strategic measures and whether you will change the timetable, which is literally suffocating. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u21	Before I reply to you about what we are planning in our Ministry and what the programming is for 2021, Mr Colleague, may I remind everyone that from the first moment that we have undertaken our government's objective was and is the implementation of our national energy and climate plan, which, as you know very well, we have changed in relation to what you, your government, had tabled. It is a national project that has a key focus on further penetration of renewable energy sources and their greater involvement in the country's energy mix, so that we can get rid of the lignite polluter as quickly as possible and thus renewable energy sources, which are renewable - as the word says - which is clean, become the country's main source of electricity. And here you should answer, if you agree with this change, if you agree with this amendment, with those amendments that our national energy and climate plan has included in relation to yours. It should be recalled that the revision of the plan that you had finally proposed was aimed at more than doubled the installed power, reaching 19 GW of installed power by 2030, while your original national energy and climate plan had clearly lower targets, 31% of RES participation in gross final energy consumption, while we target 35%, that is, we have an increase of more than 10% -15%. You have proposed 16.5% of the share of lignite in the energy mix in the country, and we say zero participation. You were saying 32% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions compared to 1990, while we are targeting 42% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, which is causing, of course, the phenomenon of planet Earth, the phenomenon of climate change. So, in the first phase, I must say that you must not judge us unfairly and move the finger that we are punishing the RES, when we first of all consider ourselves to be a key pillar of development and support for our energy system for renewable energy. Allow me, Madam President, to finish the rest in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Minister. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u23	I do not know why you are in a hurry to close the vocabulary, you have had time, but we have to have a little real dialogue. You said you supported RES projects. The entire RES market - small, large and medium-sized - know that the New Democracy has carved in 2014 and 2020. All right, in their words, you're backing them up, and you're putting them on the raisins! That's not support, Mr. Screka. Secondly, you said earlier to Mr Constantinople that you are going ahead with a national energy and climate plan for carbonisation. There's no bigger lie. You are going ahead with a national plan for energy and climate that supports gasification, because you are shutting down lignites to promote private gas plants for electricity production. In fact, you have a much higher percentage of natural gas than the previous SPS. In fact, you mentioned somewhere to reduce 42% of emissions. Mr Screka, your European Commission-based obligations have now reached 55%. The point is, therefore, that regardless of the great titles you put, you are now engraving on the one hand and the objectives of Europe, we are still not reaching them. So leave me at least that populism of trade unionism. I know them a lot better than numbers. You need to tell us what you are going to do with the RES, with the energy communities and all those who you cut first with joy and then with permission and leave the big words for others and don't use them in here. We know responsibility for Greek society. Unfortunately, you are not making carbonisation and we are being delayed by the climate objective. In the view of SYRIZA, we must say it publicly, the energy communities, individual projects, self-consumption, self-production, small and medium-sized projects and small projects must reach 50% of energy production, because it cannot be oligarchical, but pluralist, something you do not do. You do the opposite, restructure the market and gather it. You therefore have more adverse conditions for energy communities. They are forbidden and to conclude a similar contract and belong to more than one, if you like, a community. This is a punishing provision which requires that they change the composition of their members so that they do not become members and other communities in the same region. That's tragic, Mr. Screka. From the countryside and the region, which you are, you are also cutting off the right of citizens to participate in energy communities and you have put them in the licence that has expired. And finally you didn't tell us if you were going to do anything about the thousands of projects that are left out or if you lead them to a competitive process. Also - the second question I ask you - what are the limits, from what strength and above, will they be subject to competitive procedures? Have you informed the European Union? Will you inform the Greek Parliament? What are these competitive procedures and when will they begin? Are you ready? Because I, Mr Skreka, see that on 18 January you are taking out a circular and giving the energy communities five days to settle their composition and the documents and then an amendment is made, as I see it, to give five more days. This is finally 'bulk', Mr Screka, it is not an organisation of a society that claims to climate neutrality. In fact, all this is happening in the middle of a pandemic. Therefore, the RIS must announce how it will help small projects, if it will give extensions, what power limits are for competitive processes and how they will be extended, because these have been launched by SYRIZA to give market transparency. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And I have to tell you, Madam President, that Germany in the relevant procedure has given four months of consultation, while we are being brought to us by amendments and by Christmas and cutting the timetables. That's not a government, it's a total "bug," Mr. Screka. We also sincerely want to say - and I close, Madam President - yet again by helping pluralism. You must tell us what you will do in particular about PV roofs, which are subject to a tragic unfair competition. The households that invested make it very difficult. You put them twice as much carved, and you have that limit of the reference value, which is 6 kW. This is something that you need to review, Mr Screka, as well as the issues of the disposal of surpluses. Because at the moment, as far as I can see from the GSP, the cost of installing a photovoltaic roof is twice as high as a farmer, and the price is only 25% higher. So, what are you doing? Even the household that can put a photovoltaic roof on, discourage it and only put it in raisins. You must give specific answers and leave the big words. We know you've made gas agreements with a few oligars. For the RES, will you tell us what you're doing? For we want the lignite to be replaced with an RES, if possible tomorrow, Mr Skreka. This is SYRIZA's position, and more clearly it can't be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Comrade, because you referred to a liar, to lies, etc., you know, the greatest weakness of the liar is that he can't believe anyone else. So let me tell you some information to put things on the right basis and in their turn. We did not receive a paradise in the field of RES, Mr Famele, as we did not receive a paradise in any of the things we received from the previous government of SYRIZA. On the matter of waste, I told Mr Ragosi, I do not need to repeat them. The same was done in the part of renewable energy sources and in terms of the viability of the special account, ELAP. You want the democratisation of energy, we want energy democracy, we want the Greeks, if he wants, to be able to have a participation, to be able to participate in this transformation of our energy map. But, as you did, that is all you did not ensure, because, if you do not ensure the viability of EPA, then we cannot talk about increasing the penetration of renewable energy sources into the energy mix of the country. Because ELAP, the special account, is the one that supports the further penetration of the RES into our energy mix. So we are trying to correct the irrationalities you left us and the unregulated and uncontrolled intrusion, in terms that were not competitive in many cases. You mentioned, for example, the energy communities. It was a very good measure, but in the way that you had almost legislated, there was a massive downturn in this will that you might wish to legislate and that we would like, that is to say, to give the ordinary Greeks the opportunity to participate in a piece of RES energy production. But what did we see, Mr. Famele? In fact, you must accept that. We have finally seen ourselves and themselves being able to make up dozens of energy communities and finally exploit this privileged - rightly - treatment, but without that being the case, most people have access to the RES, so more citizens and without having what we want, namely energy democracy. So we come to fix these things and put one order in order, to lay rules so that everyone - and the small ones - can actually contribute to our national objective. You said about the final date at 31-12-2020. What did we do then? What then did the previous administration, the leadership of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy? First of all, Mr Colleague, let us say that in December, in the last month, three thousand applications were made to the OLAF. Do you know why this happened at the last minute? All of these, together with many other thousands, were applications that were not complete. They were dossiers which did not include the environmental authorisation or the exemption provided for. So what did we do? We have said that any dossiers that are complete, of course they will keep their order and they will enter the process in order to finally obtain approval from the DEDEN - if they can - to the extent they can build. The reality is, however, that the networks have received them overhead. Four and a half years, Mr. Famele, what have you done? What did your government do? What did the DEDE do? What investments did it make to open up the networks and to enable the small - as far as the size of the photovoltaic they want to install, otherwise very large - Greek citizens? So what did these small owners of photovoltaics do? Are they able to connect or today can they connect their photovoltaics? Oh, no! 60% to 70% of applications are rejected by the DEDEN. That's a reality. So, what are we talking about? What extension are we talking about? In what? Something that's gonna be rejected the next day? 99% of applications submitted in December, according to the assessments made by the competent body, will be received "unconnection shortfall". Are we kidding the world? Do we make them costly, pay money to make files and deposit them so they can be rejected? These are the real problems we have to solve, Mr Famele, and you know that very well. What is the design for the competitive procedures for small photovoltaics? Will even very small projects be included in the new framework of competitive procedures? I have to tell you that we are talking about the institutional representatives of these small photovoltaics, to see what is best for them, so that we can ensure the two issues we want. The first is to be able to make energy production in our country, to carbonize our country's electricity production, and the second is to ensure energy democracy, that more will have access to this vision, I would say, energy transformation of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, too, Minister. The second question with number 2858/21-12-2020 will be debated now by the question of the circle of petitions by the Member of the Heraklion Movement, Mr. Vassiliou Kegeroglou, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The shortcomings of the current programme require a new "Security - Self-determination" with environmental and social selection criteria. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes to develop the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I do not need to argue much about the failure of the last 'Security - Self-determination', but also about the problems it had in the previous period. Inadequacies are identified mainly in five points: Firstly, there were no environmental criteria. It has not been taken into account the extent to which a building needs energy upgrading, namely how energy-intensive it is. Secondly, there were no social criteria. The weaker people need to join the programme in order to make energy savings and to support them. Third theme: there were no economic criteria that would add value to our country, with materials and products that are environmentally friendly, but also that are linked to the Greek environment. Fourthly, transparency in the procedure. A unique criterion, with the result that, for example, for Crete - and I want to be precise - the platform for the submission of applications was opened at 10: 00 and closed at 10: 14. It's only been open for fourteen minutes. Four thousand four hundred sixty-eight applications were submitted, of which a thousand three hundred eight were adopted, with the insufficient amount of EUR 28.2 million, EUR 21.550 the average of the grant. There are complaints of engineers, energy inspectors, as well as of chamber technicians about the suspected existence of illegal software that was created in order to introduce collected applications into the process, given that each application wanted at least fourteen minutes on its own to be introduced and there is no one to have introduced too many applications. That's a big problem. So you are asking me if you intend to propose to move on to a new 'Security - Autonomous' programme, on the basis of the criteria I have mentioned, on the first hand, environmental, social and economic grounds for added value in our country. The second question is whether you will have a programme that will have an increased budget per region for the region of Crete, for example, or as a whole for the country and how much. Third question and most importantly, if the applications that have already been rejected due to the fact that the only criterion was the speed of the computer operator to import the data, they will be examined without having to resubmit them and the owners, investors, stakeholders or if you will automatically incorporate them into the new programme, which I hope you have planned on better terms and conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u28	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Madam President. 'Yes', 'yes', 'no' are the answers to these questions which you have once again quite rightly raised, Mr President. Always in my previous capacity as State Secretary for Rural Development, you invited me to answer topical questions that were very critical, very useful and really echoed the needs of our society. Thank you again for the question you have tabled. I will not say anything new if I say that it is indeed the 'I'm saving at home' that is a programme that is of enormous importance to the Greek society and the Greek economy. First of all, as far as macro-economic characteristics are concerned, it is a programme that distributes money, resources directly to society in a massive way. And this money really catches place: Aloinadas, builders, manufacturers of small, crafters, workers, everyone working through this program, and that's why we took over the country's governance in the summer of 2019, my predecessor, Kostis Hatzidakis, immediately proceeded to the call for this measure in a way that would quickly provide resources, would quickly provide resources to society and the economy and those who need to improve their homes. So one piece is the social and economic benefit, which relates to the energy upgrading of dwellings and the building stock in general in the country that is old - so to speak - building stock. 60% or 70% have been built until the 1980s. So you understand that it really needs upgrades. Of course, after the work carried out in these buildings and homes and after their energy upgrade, we naturally achieve two things. Firstly, the reduction of the environmental footprint of the household, home, building, and so we emit fewer pollutants and have fewer carbon dioxide emissions in the atmosphere. On the other hand, there is a huge benefit now on a permanent basis in the household pocket and wallet, since this is called on to spend much less money on the energy it consumes for either heating or cooling. Let me conclude with my answer, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u31	Minister, I hope in your remarks that we will have the answers in particular, except in general, we are all in agreement on the theory. The development of the country's building stock is certainly very important through its energy upgrade, thus contributing to the national economy, the environment, but also to the consumer, the owner, the user of the building, the house, the housing. So it is a multiple benefit, which means that the criteria must be consistent with this multiple benefit. Therefore, we should have environmental criteria, most energy buildings being precedented. The second is having social criteria, most needy, housing and small businesses. The third criterion is to make a contribution to the country's production model, to development with environmentally-friendly materials and to national production. There are various techniques. There should be priorities for what is close to the environment. I am not saying domestic, because this may be contrary to a European directive, but what is linked to the natural environment, the structured, as it is in our country. The procedure should be fully transparent in relation to these criteria. It is not the speed criterion objective criterion. In my view it can also be completely unconstitutional. What will it say 'I made the request quicker and I lead'? So is it in relation to the applicant's or his operator's physical abilities? Are we involved in what physical ability he has, whether the person really has an advantage in it, or whether he is a disabled person or, or what? It is a complete mistake, which is not currently. I stressed it. Unfortunately, it is in other cases too. So if these criteria are in place and, of course, a total amount of that amount is allocated which can help relaunch the economy through an environmentally friendly activity, it will be desirable. We want to know the amount that you will put, if you adopt the criteria, how much it is in each region and what you will do with the research, whether there have been looting or not, as it is said, in the previous programme. We're gonna leave it, right? Has there been or has there been any software and cooperation of managers with those who built it to know the norms and to touch the program? I think whoever I asked said it was sunny more obvious. But here we want to know more about tomorrow - of course, to see this issue as well - and tell us about the applications that are pending. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u32	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u33	The speed criterion is objective, but is it not a sufficient and necessary treaty to direct the money to what it may need more to upgrade energy, but - there is a great 'but' - why did we qualify for the speed criterion in the first phase of the invitation? Because, as I said before, we wanted very quickly and because you know that we are already in a very peculiar situation with the pandemic of COVID -19, the coronary, we wanted very quickly to promote, transfer and disseminate money at the basis of the economy, directly to the citizens in a way, as I say, very direct, so that we can also stimulate the economy, but also eventually intervention where we all need less or more. The quickest way, ladies and gentlemen, was that. Any other way, whether through a multi-critical analysis, evaluation and final classification of beneficiaries, in which, as we have said quite rightly, there should be the various criteria that we will discuss, that there should be an evaluation of them on the basis of a specific methodology, that is to say, what everyone says, to have the assessment, is right, that a final classification should come out and then start implementing these projects. This thing, as I described it, you know it takes time. But that's what we're going to do from now on. So what did we do? In the first phase, we have actually promoted EUR 900 million in public expenditure - almost EUR 1.1 billion in total, and in the next phase, in cooperation with the Technical Chamber of Greece, which is the advisor to the State and, of course, the responsible ones, who know very well what is going on in this market and in this sector, we will, together with you, join in setting the evaluation criteria. These will naturally include the age of the building. An older building, a built building in the 1950s, the '60s, the '70s has more need than an energy upgrade in relation to a building or a house built in 2010 and 2020, it makes sense. A household with a lower income of course and this should probably have a greater financial support than another household with a much larger annual income. A region where environmental conditions are much more extreme, much more energetic, where the cold is much more, where households and citizens spend a lot more money, 20%, 30%, 40% of the family budget to heat their homes, of course this should be assessed accordingly, so that we can strengthen them further. However, these are all criteria which I repeat that through consultation with you, at the level of political consultation and discussion of the parties, but also with the Technical Chamber, we will establish a programme. Because I think that no one has any objections to this being a very important programme, the 'I save at home', and that it should be very fair and finally help, achieve the national objective, which is to reduce carbon dioxide emissions on the one hand, and help households spend a lot less money, save money on the energy they consume for heating and cooling their homes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, too, Minister. We move on to the third with number 2824/417/18-12-2020 question and application for documents from the circle of petitions - Questions by SYRIZA's MP - Progressive Alliance Mr. Socrates Famelou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'Why do the legislative and compulsory incentives for recycling and the cyclical economy and the counter-incentives for the burial of waste?' Mr Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes to develop the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'm going to continue a little bit of the introduction I made to my first question. We told you that we will try to help solve real problems, which your Government unfortunately creates in society. If you are not honest in this debate, we cannot continue in this tone, you understand that. The whole market knows Mr. Stathakis has handed you over the RES account. Don't say what you said before, it's a shame. The whole market knows that the mistake of PPC's growths and Mr. Hatzidakis' carpets led us here. The point is how we solve it. If you're gonna let this syndicate mood out of the way, we can figure this out. So let's go a little bit to the second thing. It's for the price policy of recycling, a very crucial issue. Unfortunately, I must say, Minister, that you have tragic problems in this area. Why? Madam President, we submitted a question on 4 October 2019. He didn't answer. On 29 November the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of The figures were finally sent to us on 11 December. We tabled a second question on 27 March and still did not answer it. It is timely on 4 May and on 10 June the evidence shows us. The third question - and here we put it on 18 December - has still not been answered. Just stuff. The government of SYRIZA succeeded with the approval of the Commission and with the approval of all the country's actors in the Cyclic Economy Forum to go ahead with some important areas for recycling: the implementation of pricing policy with incentives for anyone who recycles since 1 January 2020, the environmental contribution of a circular economy, the law on the operation of the PVCs and the law on recycling that clearly made the economics of recycling and its operators clear. These reforms which were positively accepted by all the institutions, the CEDEFOP, the ELPE, and all the chambers and producers, and obviously the Economic Policy Board and the Commission, are coming, and Mr Hatzidakis is freezing them all, so that an incredible salt can be recycled and managed in the recycling and management of waste. The first is that it is coming to abolish the contribution of a circular economy that has motivated the retarding municipalities. It abolishes the implementation because it does not control the implementation of incentives for recycling in the PVCs and changes three times the law of "Klisthena", Article 255 of Law 4555/2018, apparently because some games are made in the PVCs, Minister. So the first question we ask you is: Who benefited from the three changes in Article 255? I'll put aside another question later on about what has already been done in the Ionian with a lyric that was built and overpriced the works in relation to the studies of technical services. I'll put it aside. We're going to ask a question about that. We're coming to the main thing. We now have a document from the central Macedonian waste management body which admits that it does not implement this year - second year - the incentives for recycling, firstly - it says - because the municipalities are not equipped, as if so far there is no recycling at all in Greece. I know we're about 15-17%. Secondly, it says that it has no evidence, when we know, Minister, that there was work of the Hellenic Recycling Agency for the inventory and everyone has balance sheets in the CYTAs. Finally, is there or is there no evidence available and invoices, as proposed by the European Union, do not apply with incentives and sorting at source? Mr Minister, we need to take this from the outset. I suggest that you do not go back to the past and see how you implement the major reforms that we have made.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u36	Thank you very much. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u37	You said to be honest, but to be honest, my colleague. You know that your ELAP account - and I will close it down here - had a huge government deficit SYRIZA, which was even intensified at the time, when you were in the first place, that the government and the Prime Minister at the time had had those deceptives, when the then Minister of Energy, Environment and Reconstruction - I remember that super-minister that you had built - had not allowed an increase in EMSAR and finally came two years later and imposed the supplier's charge, which ultimately brought it even further to the limits of PPC's bankruptcy, since you charged it to pay the difference that was missing from the Special Account for the RES, but without being able to adjust its commercial policy. So, to know what we're saying, this has to be solved. The account - I think we all agree - must be sustainable, not to cause deficits in a way which, however, keeps energy prices in households, businesses, professionals and all that are the productive base of this country and creates jobs to support our society. Two things I'll say and I'll see you in dentistry. The recycling rate in the country in 2013 was 15.8%, 2014 was 15.4%, 2015 was 13.2%. These are the percentages for all urban waste. 2016 was 13.8% and anyway in 2017-2018 we reach 15%. Remind me it was at 15.8% in 2013 and 15.9% in 2019. If we take the typical recycling after the accounting changes of the European Directive 851 of 2018, from 19.3% we drop to 15.7% in 2015 in recycling and reach 20% and 21% in 2019. What do I mean by that, Mr. Comrade? I do not think it is a matter of party controversy any more, as far as recycling targets are concerned. The reality is that we need to do a great deal of work and, as far as consumer education and communication are concerned, to the citizens of Greece, as to what they need to do so that we can achieve this three-way 'Reduce, Reuse, Recycle', that is to say, a reduction in the use, repetition, and at the end of recycling, to be rooted in the daily lives of the Greeks. Otherwise, we will continue - I am afraid - to send to the landfills, either waste or scrap, much more tons of material than we should send. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Madam President. We will not get into a ping pong for ELAP which is the previous question. We received 800 million in deficit and handed him over. I'm closing it. That always counts in these conversations. We're engineers. The evidence counts. But let's see what's going on with recycling. You have not said, Minister, so far you will use the incentives for recycling, or you will abolish them. The first thing you need to answer is whether the legislation with full ministerial decisions and fully applicable incentives for recycling that had to be implemented as from 1 January 2020 will check them, implement them and continue them. The first is that. The second question I asked is what you will do with the environmental contribution of a circular economy. Because she had also been legislated. The whole framework was designed for how to enter the pricing regulation. There has been no proper application until now. Our tongue's hairy. We've been telling you for a year and a half. You do not apply the institutional framework and you leave the FODs, you as a government do not apply it. Thirdly, so as not to say air numbers and we are being chased by the Commission. We had announced to the Hellenic Recycling Agency a complete study to record the qualitative and quantitative characteristics of the waste we produce, what we recycle and what they are compositional. WWF spokesman on the EEA board said here in the House in May, when we discuss the anti-environment bill, that the preparation of the study has been frozen and transferred to the future. So you don't collect the evidence either. Three things, then. Recycling incentives. Will OTA, the municipality that makes a lot of recycling have a less invoice, Minister? That is what we have legislated. Secondly, will there be a contribution from a circular economy, that is, those who bury more will have a resource to finance recycling more? Third, are you going to do the record to know the quantity and quality, or are we going to run the fines all the time? Because that's what the New Democracy did. That's what he inherited us. Over three hundred dumps we found open when we took over the government. The government of SYRIZA decreased by 82% and the fine confirmed by numbers. You can't say anything about that. I have the situation of the Commission. In four years we had 82% landfill reduction. But, Minister, the big point is that Mr Hatzidakis is coming and has announced that he will bring back a burial tax rather than a levy on a circular economy. In other words, Madam President, these resources are not going to be recycled. Secondly, with the national plan you made in August, without coming to Parliament, the privatisation of waste management is introduced. New contractors and pimps, that is, on the back of the Greeks for garbage. Also introduce combustion. So now the question is not just the motives for recycling, the contribution of a circular economy and the quality - quantity record to have clear discussions between us. It is whether you will eventually bring national planning to the House or hide the truth too. Mr. Hatzidakis hid it. We have made an official request to come to the House to the Committee on Production and Trade or to the Committee on the Environment. Will you cancel the privatisation plan? Because as far as I know now, all self-government officials are preparing and running public works now. Ask the president of the CEDEFOP what he's doing to your municipality. I know the work there is public. It's not a PPP, as you say. So, are we finally changing the plan? Are we on the right track? Will you take the combustion off the agenda, Minister, with the recycling in front, with motive? These are the real questions. Because the FODs, Madam President, have responded in writing that they do not implement it. Madam President, if the Minister does not bring the documents, as he is due, because he is an ACP and we will be going to a procedure under the Rules of Procedure. Not today, the request will be made.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u40	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u41	First of all, I would like to put forward the figures requested by my colleague, because it is a question and an ACP question. I will start with the environmental contribution you mentioned. It was, Mr President, and you know that very well, a transformation, a renamed burial fee. You have established the "environmental contribution" in the way you renamed various previous provisions and terminologies that were in existence and trying to bring these into line with supposedly new political choices, while basically renamed the old political choices of previous governments. [[At this point, the Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Konstantinos Skrekas, presents for the minutes the abovementioned CD, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So you introduced the environmental contribution that was the rename of the burial fee, which existed before and at the same time was a hard way of postponing its implementation after the end of the SYRIZA government's term of office. Because every time you bring a new law that renames something that is already in existence, it also takes an extension of one or two years of the law, and in this way you sent for the next ones what you are asking to do today and that it should perhaps have been done beforehand. The imposition of fines on TLTROs should be last and not first option. That's what we think. If you believe anything else, please come and testify to us. The burial fee provided for in the Waste Management and Recycling Act is essentially an extension of the environmental contribution, as the exceptions you had foreseen are limited. The burial fee, along with the 'pay' as far as I fly, are two measures which the European Commission has always recommended to adopt and which will finally be adopted in our country and implemented by the current government, Mr President. We do believe that the burial fee is a very important tool, a counter-incentive, so that we can promote recycling and comply with European legislation and, of course, it applies in almost all the Member States of the European Union. For the first time, we import the system "pay as far as I fly", so that the conscientious citizen or professional can be rewarded. So we give the municipalities an important tool to charge lower municipal fees for those who produce less waste or recycle more, which you have done nothing in the four and a half years that you are running this place. This also aims to provide incentives and ensure higher performance for our country with regard to the targets for recycling. Let us also say, as far as the national plan is concerned, that of course we will also discuss it together and of course promote energy use in a way that is part of the green agreement and the objectives that we need to achieve through the green agreement, but also through the efforts of the strategy Europe, so that they reach the least possible materials in the landfill areas. That's us, Mr. Femmelle, we're going to do it. What we have seen in your own governance - and we never forget them - is those images of the mountains of garbage disintegrated under 40 and 50 degrees of Celsius, under the summer sun on the streets of Corfu, Rhodes and other parts of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, too, Minister. We continue with the fourth under No 1432/340/4-11-2020 question and application for the submission of documents by SYRIZA MEP - Progressive Alliance Mr. Socrates Famelou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "It remains pending the identification of the source of dysosmia in the Volos Urban Group". Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes to develop the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u43	I, Minister, will make a third attempt to have a honest discussion. Now if you don't follow... You know, the citizens of Athens and, in general, Attica five years on SYRIZA didn't see rubbish all over the streets. Don't go into the past of the New Democracy. Let go of it! So let's go see a story about the amosomia at Volos. It's also in the area of Thessaly and you're interested a little bit longer. It is also about the Region of Thessaly and we need to have a sincere debate because we have a witch hunt that has not been answered for many years in Volos and generally in Magnesia. Here we have asked and applied for documents twice, on 31 August and on 4 November. It has remained unanswered so far, and the issue is crucial because there is also dysosmia in the area of Volos and great concern in the society of Volos about the quality of the atmosphere. We are asking, Minister, - and first of all I think that is what you need to answer - whether you have brought us the findings and documents concerning the controls and the fines that have been imposed. Because it seems, Madam President, that we have it in writing since 2016 - and I have responded to parliamentary scrutiny - regional controls began. The results have not come, however. They must come to Parliament. There was a common step, I can see it from March 29, 2017. I had taken the initiative at that time to be convened, but as you can see, the ministers do not interfere in the tiles of ethics. The results come to the House where needed. We therefore want to know what these checks have finally done. What's the formal procedure? For as Mr. Agoras says in an interview there were fourteen audits in 2016 and some in the steel industry as well. We have serious issues, of course, in the Volos region, which are linked to the activities of the FGD. We have to be clear about this. There is great concern in society and there is great concern about the change in the fuel of LAG from pet coke to alternative fuel and RDF. We need to make it clear that this approval was given in 2014 with a capacity of 200 thousand tonnes. In 2017, however, as regards port installations and fuel supply management, GDP has been modified, without any modification of the quantities. However, because there were objections, Madam President, and concerns from scientific bodies, we had held repeated meetings and had achieved monthly checks on dioxins and furans, instead of twice a year - so that there should be a social audit committee, which was ratified by the Voluntary Agreement signed by me in July 2019 and that the cement industry should be made public - and that is the most important, Madam President - in society the measurements every year and to organise and consult, not just to deposit them. To talk to society first of all to make it clear what the problem is and what its extent is. So we could know what the controls are doing in all the activities, including the FGD and the steel industry, what the FGD emissions are and we could have a frank discussion and not that, unfortunately, as I said, the witch hunt on Volos. Because disosmia exists, Madam President, and it is important. As far as we can see - and I close the first question of why time has passed, Mr Minister - there is a report on the part of the GDR, which, however, concerns all the activities of the group. In other words, a Volos report has not been tabled, so to speak. This report, if I am not mistaken, was also made public in English. So I ask the Ministry: First of all, what are the results of the measurements of the checks, which I have already said? How the RIS assesses the FMD report, first of all, on the basis of the legislation. If there is to be a detailed presentation at Volos and a discussion with society and the authorities. And if, on the basis of the Voluntary Agreement, you will also proceed to the national committee and the encouragement I have made in writing to the region to become a local committee of social control. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Madam President. I think we will find a modus operandi, Mr Colleague, on the basis of the evidence we bring. They're his first time questions, so we'll figure it out from now on. So, on the basis of the very correct question you have tabled, I would like to point out that the issue of dealing with air pollution is a key priority for the Ministry of the Environment and Energy. Our country acquired in the past few days a National Air Pollution Control Programme, the so-called EMAP. Joint Ministerial Decision provides for measures to reduce the national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants for 2020 to 2029, but also from 2030 onwards, for sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, volatile organic compounds other than methane and finely suspended particulates. I must say, of course, that the EPP does not count as a misosomal, but it counts for everything else. As far as the issues you have raised in your question are concerned, I shall mention the following: On the occasion of the discussion of the timely you have submitted, we asked for an updated update of the Region of Thessaly, which has been signed with the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki on the subject of extending the chemical composition and the origin of the dysosmia in the town complex of Volos. The investigation shall be based on on on-the-spot sampling, with samplers specialised for the case, of the atmospheric odours of chemicals and their identification and identification in the laboratory using specialised laboratory equipment, which shall be able to identify a wide range of unknown chemicals. Fifty samples have already been collected from three selected sites in the town complex of Volos and two samples have been taken in the industry of the area. The samples have been sent to the laboratory for the determination of organic volatile compounds and the results are expected. A concise tendering procedure has also been opened for the provision of services for the assessment of the impact of odour emissions by the method of odour coding from established factories in the wider Volos region. A contractor has emerged for the project and the contract is expected to be signed in order to start sampling. We note that environmental audits have been carried out and continue to be carried out both by the Environmental Inspectors of the Ministry of Environment and Energy and by the departments of the region, and that cooperation exists between them. The findings of the checks will be assessed in conjunction with the results of the sampling programme of the Region of Thessaly, in order to identify possible causes of dysosmia and then take the necessary measures. As it goes without saying, Mr Colleague, for the checks which are in progress, where infringements of course are detected and legislation will be implemented. I consider this to be the most important one in this case, scientifically documented identification of the origin of dysosmia and taking the necessary measures from the administration. Madam President, allow me to submit to CD the information requested by the SYRIZA Members who have tabled the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u47	Madam President, I will make an effort to have a result on this question. I'm not very sure of the first answer. Minister, I would like you to clarify, if you know, what the contents of the CD are from the point of view of the question, which is being asked, has the following characteristics: Firstly, how does the Ministry, as the Environment Authority, assess the reports it has - poorly - and when will they come for discussion in Volos society? This is the one chapter. Secondly, what are the results of the measurements from 2016, said by Mr Agathastos, that he also started from 2017, when the Ministry started with the common step and environmental inspectors? I understand - and I have also looked into it - from my point of view of responsibility - that for the first year it is difficult to finish the measurements, to submit the check sheets, to have the necessary debate with the person concerned, the activity and to conclude whether or not a fine will be introduced. But it cannot, Minister, four years later the region will not have come to an end if the checks were carried out in 2016. And with great consistency I tell you that we have been asking questions about what has been done in the end for a year. Because society doesn't believe anyone in the end. The dysosmia is there and it's a real problem. I will tell you in particular that in 2017, with our own proposal, by SYRIZA, it became a climate of environmental quality control. Self-sufficient and audits were carried out until March 2018. They know them. I also answered a question of parliamentary scrutiny regarding the checks. But, three years later, you can't tell me that the checks started by SYRIZA. The result is we're looking for what the tests found. In fact, it has carried out audits since 2016. Well, four years ago. We are therefore calling for the findings of the audits. I also know the programming contract with the Aristotle University for the identification of dysosmia and the competition for the Olfactoromy. However, this has been said on several occasions by the region. What's the result? Here I would like us to come to have a result and help people and society. Because since 12-2-2020 I see in a question from SYRIZA Members that the region is announcing and something else - I do not know if you know it - that five air pollution stations are going to enter Volos. And we find that one year later we are still at the same point, Madam President. But then there will be distrust in society, and there will also be anxiety about the quality of life and human health. So we must resolve these, Mr Skreka, because I do not see how we can go any further today. Neither did you tell us anything about the measurements. Of course there is also the "Green Your Air" project which talks about PM2,5 concentrations. Mr. Screka, I'm giving this to you as well. It notes that 30% of the suspended particles come from heating and catering, 30% of vehicle traffic, 15% from the industrial zone and 10% from the eastern zone, which is the LAG. This, you know, overthrows the conversation that's going on in the city. But if it does not help the Ministry, environmental inspectors and the region to clarify what is going on and where the data of the audit activities, the checks, Mr Skreka, are hidden, I cannot help otherwise. Unfortunately, I am telling you that measurements are being made for four years and for Volos society, but also the House has not been informed. And because I have called on society to also monitor local social control, please tell us how you judge the report, where the social audit committees are, when it will be made public and what control sheets at least 2016 and 2017, Madam President, are saying to take a step to help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u49	Mr. Colleague, you replied with the information you brought to your question. Allow me to say that according to the information I have received from the Ministry's Environmental Licensing Directorate of the Ministry from the on-line electronic recording system of the results of the continuous exhaust quality control measurements of the rotary furnace in that company, which is directly connected to the Volos Free Access Network, do not result in excess of the limit values in principle emissions of pollutants provided for in paragraph 1.4 of Part II of Decision 184437/2014, of the decision approving the environmental conditions taken by the company's cement production plant “AGET HERAKLIS”. In particular, the results of measurements of the air pollutant content in a PCDD and a PCDF in a monthly sample taken continuously and carried out by the accredited laboratory for the relevant mass spectrometry and dioxin analysis of the research centre ‘Democritus’ do not result in relevant excesses. In addition to the annual reports on atmospheric emissions, as provided for in the decision approving the environmental conditions of the plant, shall be submitted to the Office of our Ministry and the Thessaly Region for the years 2013 to 2019 in which alternative fuels were used and in accordance with the submissions of the reports, no exceedances of the corresponding limit values shall occur. In accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 1). The above report, part of which constitutes the annual management review with documentation on the environmental and socio-economic footprint of the activity in accordance with international standards prescribed under the applicable ISO quality management systems, with the responsibility of the company, shall be sent for posting to the environmental information website. So with regard to what you are asking in your question, Mr Colleague, I think they are satisfied with what is included in the CD that I have tabled to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, too, Minister. We continue with the second question under number 329/20-1-2021 of the First Cycle of the Athens West Sector of the Change Movement Mr. Konstantina (Nantias) Giannakopoulou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Delay in the reconnection of electricity supplies to economicly weak houses of St. Varvaras during the second phase of pandemic, despite the assurances of the Government". It is the last question that the Minister for the Environment and Energy will answer, Mr Screkas. Mrs Giannakopoulou has the floor to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u51	Minister, I come back to a very serious and highly sensitive issue, which lies within your competence and concerns the need, to find a solution to the problem that exists and has emerged for almost two months in Agia Varvara, with the power cut that took place on December 9, 2020 by TEDO staircases with accompanying MMs in households that have proved impossible due to financial hardship to pay their bills. On the same subject, Minister, I had tabled a timely question, which had been discussed in the Greek Parliament on 22 December, and then the Secretary-General, Mr Economou, then came to answer. In his reply to the reply, Mr. Secretary had stressed and read from the Minutes, Mr. Minister: "We proceed with the Ministry of Finance in issuing a new RAS for consumers, who, because of the pandemic, were in a bad position and could not or could not pay the amount required for the accounts." Moreover, in the debate on the budget, a few days later, the Prime Minister himself, who happens to be elected in the western sector of Athens, came out and announced a framework for supporting vulnerable layers, which have come to an even more difficult position during the pandemic and quarantine period. What we had asked you to do is that, as in the first phase of the pandemic, you had done a good job and had arranged this issue by April last year, the very same thing you should have done for the second phase of the pandemic. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Despite Mr Economou's assurances, these weak economic households - and I shall end, Madam President - had to pass without power on Christmas and New Year's celebrations, the great colds we have lived in the past few days. It was powerless, Minister! So we ask that you deal directly with this issue, that you give a solution yesterday properly, and that you be able to get this social sensitivity that Mr Mitsotakis said to us that he has for West Athens - that is why he, as he had already said in election, put it there - to show it in practice. One more thing, Minister, to which I shall return to my remarks. Please warmly. The unacceptable and lousy press release of PPC in which PPC says that there have been holidays in Roma settlements, please very much to see it - I will present it in the Minutes - because it is incomprehensible that PPC people do not know that there are no Roma settlements in St Barbara! And, of course, it is a law of households, but it is a great economic difficulty.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u52	You've got to close up, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u53	And you understand that normally, as is said and answered, he should have intervened with the prosecutor. We therefore call on you to resolve the issue, to set a new CSR and to be able to support these people who are in this economic difficulty.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u54	Thank you very much. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u55	I must tell you, Madam President, since I thank you for the very critical question you have tabled and which gives rise to a constructive debate and dialogue, that it is a key priority of our Government, Mr Mitsotakis himself, the Prime Minister of the country, to support vulnerable households. The Prime Minister of the country cares about this, and he proves this in his actions, with the many billions of euros, which have been given today, of course, because of the extraordinary and exceptional conditions that have been caused by the coronary pandemic, the ones that are really brought by the consequences of pandemic and which are facing serious survival problems and not just. This pandemic has to say that it is an unprecedented situation that has been experienced by both citizens and the effectiveness of the state mechanism. Every day we are faced with issues that require a personalised approach, but also with immediate solutions. Until now, the government, but also the state mechanism, has shown that it responds well and in line with the conditions and requirements of this very exceptional situation that we are experiencing. And we must thank, congratulate and show our respect for all the members of the public administration who are struggling today to be able to support the problems that have arisen from the pandemic. I would like to say to you that the commitment of the government and the new leadership of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy is great in dealing with the phenomenon of energy poverty. You know very well that energy poverty, that is, the difficulty of citizens having access to basics, which, for many people, are basically considered, such as energy, electricity for heating or cooling their homes or for using them in their everyday lives, is an issue that we should tackle in its entirety in the years to come. You are already well aware that at European level, it is estimated that up to 30% of European citizens may face or be in the face of the spectrum of energy poverty. And we must say that the global changes that are taking place at the level of energy production in Europe, with the much greater penetration of renewable energy sources, are to some extent intensifying this phenomenon of energy poverty. And know that we, with actions that we are going to announce in the next period, will try to deal with that in depth. I shall continue, Madam President, my answer to secondary.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Minister. Here, my colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u57	Mr Minister, first of all, you are saying very well, but in particular we have heard nothing. The previous Minister said so a month and a half ago, but he didn't do anything. So, in addition to the fine words you say, we call on you and ask you to come out of here, from the Step forward of the House, to those people who are listening to us, who are under such terrible real living conditions, which are without current in the 21st century, to go out and say what you intend specifically to do with a specific timetable. When? I'm telling you again. You did it in the first phase of the pandemic. Why so hesitantly do it in second? Why do you continue to treat the citizens of western Athens as citizens second class? But in the end this issue concerns citizens and all of Greece, because unfortunately, similar analgesia has been seen against proven - to be clear, we are not talking about batters - economically weak households across Greece. There is an undeniable fact here. So on this, we ask you to be placed. However, the analgesia of either the government or PPC - I told you again - seems from this here to be the unacceptable PPC press release. You know what? The debt of a social rule of law, Minister, is to intervene before a family living within the limits of poverty has been forced into such a difficult situation. And of course - and you know it - PPC's arrangements are very difficult assumptions, especially under the conditions laid down by PPC, with the huge advances it calls for. So look at the issue, because people want to pay their debts. It is a question of being able to do so, of not being so difficult in terms of conditions that cannot be done. Also, you were sent - not to you, the previous Minister - by the municipal social service in detail for each family profile economic and social. And we're talking about incredibly difficult cases and situations. I'll give it back to you in detail, so you can see who we're talking about. So what are you doing? What are you going to do? What for? Because, here, self-government finally knows much better what is happening from PPC and from each PPC and the Ministry that went and cut, without knowing which households the electricity enters. So - and this is a proposal, Minister - you do not come to a synergy, in cooperation with the local authorities, with the municipalities, with the social services of the municipalities, at last, to know these Golden Boys that you pay to PPC, which sends PPC's MATs and Stages to cut the current. Because they have been caught undetected, Minister. So do a co-operation with the municipalities, to see where the current needs to be cut and where you must not or should see where you should give people an opportunity to pay in a way. Or finally, use the money from the reserve you have or from elsewhere, to give the allowance you gave to the first phase of the pandemic. I will not get tired of saying it personally and the Change Movement, find a way in the crisis, where people bleed, give them self-evident: access to electricity.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u58	You've got to close up, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u59	We expect to hear commitments, Madam President, and Mr Minister, with specific acts and a specific timetable.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u60	Thank you very much, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u61	I want to believe that you personally will show much greater sensitivity than your predecessor...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u62	Your Honor, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u63	...who, unfortunately, wrote West Athens in the oldest of his shoes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u64	Thank you very much, my colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u65	My predecessor's sensitivity, but also the government as a whole, my colleague, is proven to be with the many billions of euros, money that the Greek state has never made available to meet an emergency need, as I said, has arisen from COVID -19. So we cannot say that the government did not care about it, when the Prime Minister himself cares and monitors every day and often intervenes, precisely to support the weakest, most vulnerable, those who are most affected by the exceptional circumstances, which we are unfortunately experiencing. Let me remind you, for example, that in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, a few weeks ago, we brought a change in the heating allowance that we give every year, feeling just this, the emergency of the situation and the special needs of the time. Thus, apart from the oil that has been in place so far, heating allowance is given for all other fuels. Because too many, unfortunately, cannot buy oil and heat up, using other sources of energy to warm up. So we and for these sources have acted on the aid we call the 'heating allowance' and in this way we have naturally made the cost of heating much less. Let us also say about the issue, which you have already raised quite rightly, that EUR 30 297 000 has already been allocated to deal with these cases. Let me say that it is money, which we had taken care of and had budgeted, and we have precisely the needs of the low-income citizens, who have been disconnected from the electricity supply network due to late payment. I should also like to say to you that the Ministry is preparing an extension of this reconnection measure to vulnerable consumers who have ceased their connection after 1 May 2020. Based on our estimates, we have secured the necessary resources to extend the measure from 1 May to 31 December. In the next few days, the procedural issues will have been completed and a joint ministerial decision will have been adopted. I would like to say, however, that these are short-term measures. They will give solutions to the one who cannot be warmed up today. I'm so glad you're filing a list of vulnerable households. And I assure you that I will be in touch immediately after our meeting and I will make sure to see what has happened and if these people actually have power today and we will see to it that they are reconnected quickly and can warm up their home. However, I repeat that we need to have a very serious discussion of all the political parties - because this is an issue beyond and beyond ideology, perceptions and parties - about what will happen with these people who, when they press on the electricity switch in their home, do not turn on the lamp and that is something we have to deal with. And, of course, these conditions created by the pandemic may exacerbate these cases, but you can be sure that, because Mr. Mitsotakis really cares and we are working on it, we will not leave anyone unprotected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, too, Minister. We are now moving on to the third with number 348/25-1-2021, a topical question for the second cycle of the Athens Parliamentary Party of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Garyfallias (Lianas) Kanellis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The regulation which obliges qualified doctors appointed to the Emergency Departments (SGU) to complete six-month training in Emergency Medicine in order to develop to a higher degree". The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Health, Mr. Vassilis Kontozamanis. My colleague, you have two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u67	Thank you very much, Madam President. One can rarely start by saying that in practice the narrow concept of my question is not right today, but only the narrow one - and I am not here for that - because the Minister made a ministerial decision on 25th month and corrected injustice. You know very well that in the Communist Party of Greece we are in favour of law and especially of reality, realistically. You made a decision and healed an injustice, which was an injustice of the governments and SYRIZA and of the New Democracy, and which had literally deleted for two years, without any progress, doctors working in hospital emergency services. Mostly, they had been completely wronged because they demanded another kind of specialty that was later in two parts of the country in "Attiki" and "PAGNI" in Crete, and this result was tragic. People were mobilized from the first to the last. They became real games. We supported it and asked a written question. That's what the Minister has come and corrected it. My Minister, since you have been able to fix it with a ministerial decision, it is time to see it in depth without seeing a sirial right now. I do not invite you to see either "Grey's Anatomy" or "Chicago Med" or "Amsterdam", which are both dear series and sees the whole world and knows how the emergency departments are organized around. I invite you to land in the pandemic reality and in the real misery of the way in which certain things work in Greece. Organic vacant posts. Don't tell me the emergency department has no vacant posts, Madam President. Four of them exist at the Hospital of Nice, four empty organic positions of doctors in the emergency. In the “Evangelism” there are so many others, because that was where they had been declared three before 2013, which were never covered. SYRIZA proclaimed eighteen, one was not covered. Three and one, a total of four, are missing from the 'Evangelism'. We're going to the staff who manages these emergency departments. Most people are even newly recruited and at pandemic times when one hears - whoever has a common mind - the notion of emergency, understands that they are the ones that can go from a child who is beaten - right? - until someone who wants to resuscitate, wants to intubate, wants to treat a heart attack. On these, then, the staff hired are mostly contractors and after they are contractors, they entered the front line to deal with the pandemic as well. Aren't they supposed to be simulated? Should they not take advantage of their experience and remain in their positions? I have more to tell you. They have to be corrected now! For example, the one to be corrected is the movement of doctors from TLs to CIVID clinicals. TLFs are weakened to the extent of a felony. I'm bringing you Nice as an example. From Nice, three were moved to the hospital's CIVID clinic and two others to the hospital's clinic "Agia Varvara". There goes the TLP! There goes the emergency department! Similar things happen in many LAGs, because during the pandemic period they operate under conditions that are absolutely insecure. I should like to stay here - because I do not want to misuse time - to give me an initial answer from the Minister of State or, above all, to ask you to commit yourself in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u68	Well, thank you, my colleague. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Kanelli, I am glad you agree with the new ministerial decision that we have given, so it makes no sense to develop this part of your question. It really had to be done, and once we had a discussion with the institutions, and we also took note of the statements, we arrived at this ministerial decision, which really comes to an end to an injustice against those people who are in the first line and, in particular, in the emergency departments. Let me just fill out what was happening before and what was happening today. With the new Ministerial Decision, doctors who serve in TPAs, EKA and intensive care units already possess a specialty and do not want to pass education and examinations, will continue to develop to receive the specialisation, will continue to be rated in the title of their speciality, while remaining in the department or unit they serve. So neither these doctors - it was the injustice we say we are correcting - will be hampered in their development, but the emergency departments will not be weakened by the transfer of doctors to the educational centres for a six-month period. I should also like to add that we are going - because there are indeed only two centres right now - to direct actions, particularly in large hospitals and university hospitals, so that we can have a full file from these hospitals so that we can identify the emergency departments as educational centres so that there can be dispersal in the country and not just two emergency departments in which these doctors can be trained. According to the new ministerial decision, TLP doctors, as I said, will be able to get a title, without six months of education and those who do not hold the title will be evolving in a rating. And finally, TLP managers will acquire the qualification without examinations either by completing two years of pre-service at TLP or two years of pre-service in intensive treatment and one year at TLP. You have referred to gaps in emergencies in emergencies. Indeed, there are gaps, we have come and tried to cure several of these gaps with crises that have been completed or completed in the immediate future. In fact, in the next few days, we are in the process of completing a contract which I said would involve more than five hundred doctors. This figure will be much greater and we will give priority to the emergency departments in critical specialities, such as anesthesiologists, intensive scientists, those who fight the pandemic in order to fill these gaps. Because you referred to movements from a clinic to a clinic, you know, when we took over the head of the Ministry of Health, there were virtually a number of seizures of doctors in emergency departments and we said that he would not be moved from an emergency department to a clinic, because we need to strengthen emergency departments. And we had developed our thinking - and this is our plan - that there should be autonomous areas of emergency in hospitals, which are interconnected with the National Emergency Aid Centre, so that we can finally build up a modern system of emergency care. It remains our position that they should not be moved, but we are all aware that, because of the pandemic, some moves were necessary to these parts. In any case, we will strengthen, as I have said, the emergency departments in the next few days. There is the intention to upgrade them, to support them even more, as I have told you, in the context of the creation of a system of urgent pre-medical care. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, too, Minister. Here, my colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Madam President, for the tolerance, but this is an extremely important matter because of the circumstances. Minister, I have no reason to question you want to do it. But I have to point out a couple of things that are happening right now. In any case, we agree that it is impossible to specialize only in "Attica" and "PAGNE". If tomorrow morning all doctors, even those who are already working, want to go and get the specialist's specialty, they won't make it work for any of them. Educational centres must therefore be organised throughout the country and the way in which these people are going to go to study must be covered, because there they will go to study and work, and somehow they must stand. And that's for a long time, because specialization isn't a two or three-week case. One of the prisoners. Secondly, regarding the issue of vaccination, there is no point in building educational centres and taking more people if there are no means of doing so. There are spaces that have neither machinery nor room for recovery in existing emergency departments. And you know better than I do that de facto lives are lost. I'm coming back to the vaccination piece. Apart from the workload that fell on the doctors of emergency departments, there are no spaces, so that they are separated. There is a problem here which is both functional and essential in terms of health, patient and doctors, Madam President. There's an emergency in here, and they need to intubate it. The same people can actually come into contact with a case. Is the emergency procedure the same ones that will then go to vaccinate the population, including persons with a burden of health or persons belonging to vulnerable groups? If we look at the sense of urgency again, at the level of clearing, it can have one logic. However, at the level of 'vomiting' at the same time as 'perioding' and being used for both vaccination and for rescue, things are not simple. We are talking here about the extermination of these people who, as you said yourself, have been loaded together with the emergency and all other diseases. The country cannot function as a country of only one disease. Not all Greek populations suffer from COVID. We were burned then! And that's our problem. We say that the health system can only be organised for one disease and everyone will fall to help friendlyly and applaudedly, but to be exhausted and to be exhausted and the chances of doing their job well as part of emergencies. The conditions are therefore insecure, the necessary spaces are not and should be quickly found, and there should also be a safe separation of suspects and unforeseen and confirmed for all those who come to the TLPs. If you want, you can. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] But you should know that you start from one thing: hands, hands, hands working. In other words, you need doctors, recruitments and, above all, permanentization and new recruitment of staff. It's not enough three or four doctors. There can be no specialties that want to be trained to deal with emergencies and do not provide that they can do so or are not to such an extent staffed and qualified, so that they do not have to send patients elsewhere or download a patient from another floor to the emergency to deal with a specific issue. There are specific categories of emergencies that do not in fact have the main specialities, because they have remained, either because of COVID or due to a lack of staff. If you have corrected an injustice by a decision, now with a decision you cannot correct a system. Bring it fast, listen to the workers and listen to them, if possible, before they go out into the street into Flevaris, which you know will come out. Because tomorrow there is mobilisation for primary health and health centres which, as they should have been, would have been many things and many people would have escaped. On the 16th day of the month there is a health strike, because it is not all good or good. And here there is no intent trial. Unfortunately, we are judged by the result, and the figures are the result.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, my colleague. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Kanelli, I would like to reiterate that we agree on the two training centres. At the time when the ministerial decision on these centres came out, they met the conditions and I told you that we were moving forward so that other hospitals could play the role of educational centres and provide adequate training that is needed. In order to do this, there must be completeness in the file that we are going to submit, and that is what we are doing. I will now tell you about the recruitments and we will be done with the vaccination to which you have referred. We all agree that the health system needs recruitment. In recent years, we have experienced a large wave of fleeing in all specialities, not only doctors and nurses, but also administrative staff, because it is a system which was essentially in the form it is today - more than thirty-five years ago - and there is a large wave of fleeing. Therefore, we must strengthen all areas of the health system, not only in the medical field, but also in nursing and other personnel. There are, for example, administrative staff who are missing from hospitals and cannot go on with administrative issues. Recruitment is two kinds. There is subsidiary staff and permanent staff. We have moved in 2020 into the call for a thousand four hundred twenty-two permanent medical staff seats. I told you in the next few days there's going to be a big call for medical personnel. I said five hundred - over - doctors' seats, but it's gonna be a lot more. They are ongoing AACC notices for the other staff. It remains our commitment to permanentization of necessary personnel, such as nursing staff who, during the pandemic period, strengthened the National Health System and all the staff who served and fought this battle. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing.]] Of course, we have shown by concrete actions that we want permanent solutions to the health system. Permanent recruitment needs the health system. That makes sense. That is why we have made crises in the permanentisation of subsidiary doctors serving in intensive care units. So there is a design to fill the gaps that exist in the health system in the next few years. You referred to the vaccinations. I don't know if I understood it correctly, but under no circumstances does vaccination take place in the emergency department. Not a doctor who at some point on his shift is in the emergency department does not go to the vaccination centre in order to vaccinate a population. Vaccine centres are at certain distinct points in hospitals and of course all protocols are respected so that the world can safely come and be vaccinated.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u74	It happens, it happens! Ask them!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u75	I don't think this is happening. I'll look into it, but it seems strange to me that it's happening. As far as the parts of the emergency are concerned, there are specific instructions from the first wave of the pandemic on how to manage the incident and how a suspected unconfirmed - or later confirmed - incident is assessed in emergencies and then the patient continues his journey into the health system. We have now accumulated huge knowledge and experience all these months from the management of the pandemic, which makes us sure that at least this track meets all the necessary conditions and all the health protocols, so that every citizen who comes to receive health services can come to a safe environment. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, too, Minister. The Deputy Minister of Health Mr Kontozamanis will also reply to the seventh number 2598/402/11-12-20 question and application for documents from the Reference Cycle - Questions by MP Fthiotidas of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr Ioannis Sakiotis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: 'Two hundred and fifty-three thousand ‘under investigation’ samples: More than necessary than the clarifications on how to record the sample data'. Here, Mr Colleague, you have two minutes at your disposal to develop the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, since the beginning of the pandemic, the entire scientific community worldwide, but also in our country, has stressed how necessary it is to carry out an increased number of mass and repetitive diagnostic tests. The representative of the World Health Organisation emphatically pointed out that the key to dealing with pandemic is one: testing, testing and testing. I understand - and the reality proves this - that the government does not share the views of the scientific community, as it seems that you are conducting minimum tests on Friday, fourteen thousand on Saturday, thirteen thousand on Sunday. I'm coming to the question now. The EGE on October 23, 2020 with a document to the COVID laboratories -19 of IDU informed that, for both the future and the retrospectively, the results of the country's laboratories will be collected in order for them to be used to export significant epidemiological indicators and, of course, to be used by the scientists - members of the committee, who are recommended to the Government to take measures. Despite the fact that the warnings of international organisations since spring for a second more murderous wave in the autumn were known to everyone - the Prime Minister, I remember, had made many video conferences with world prestigious scientists - the government did not care for their timely preparation and national planning where the role proposed by the specialists for mass diagnostic checks would be played, but also for their reliable collection and registration. The EAFRD's above-mentioned document raises reasonable questions and concerns about how to collect samples up to then. That is why I ask you to send from 23/10/2020 a document to the COVID (19) laboratories of IRD what was the way to record the samples examined for COVID -19. According to the data from 3-12-2020 elements of the relevant HICP register, the number of positive samples is one hundred and twenty thousand 11, the negative samples are six hundred three thousand seventy seventy six and the samples to be investigated are two hundred and fifty three thousand seventy. What does it mean, Minister, is the existence of the term ‘under investigation of samples’ and how do you justify the existence of two hundred and three thousand samples under investigation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u78	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Madam President. I would first like to submit to the Minutes the documents requested by Mr Sarakiotis in his question. [[At this point the Deputy Minister for Health, Mr Vassilis Kontozamanis, presents for the minutes the abovementioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Let me say, Mr Sarakiotis, that diagnostic checks on the coronary are indeed a key operational tool in the battle against pandemic. In the country, more than thirty thousand such checks are carried out daily. Our strategy is based on these checks. These checks and the processing of the data by scientists produce useful conclusions, which are borne by the final recommendations of the scientists and decision-making. As far as the questions you raise are concerned, I answer the first question. Until its dispatch under the CP2527/2020 document of the EGE to which you refer, and hence the way in which the data of the samples examined for the coronary virus and the recording of the relevant results were recorded was and remains the one detailedly described in Articles 1 to 4 of the Common Ministerial Decision 2650/2020 on the regulation of specific technical issues for the functioning of the National Register of Coronary Patients. In particular, HICP has undertaken the technical design, implementation, organisation of the migration of personal data and other data from each source, compliance under conditions ensuring the integrity, confidentiality and availability of data and any other issue concerning the smooth functioning of the National CIVID Patent Register system -19, acting on and in compliance with the provisions of the Personal Data Protection Act. Also, HICP as a processor informs the Ministry of Health as a controller in the event of an identifiable breach of personal data. And Article 3 defines the users of the National Patent Register and those rights. It is stated that users accredited as registries are the treating physicians of patients who have access to the categories of patients enrolled by themselves and patients under their own supervision for the provision of medical services. Users accredited to the ‘Users for traceability purposes’ category have the right to receive the case data necessary for their identification and the implementation of the purposes of traceability. Users accredited to the ‘Working Examination Users’ category have the right to record data on the results of laboratory investigation of potential COVID-19 cases carried out by themselves. Users accredited in the ‘Statistical Information Users’ category only have access to statistical information, i.e. statistical data. In addition, Article 4 of that Joint Ministerial Decision refers to the entire procedure for the identification of personal data processed in the National Patent Register. In this procedure, any patient diagnosed with a coronary is necessarily integrated by the treating physician into the National Register archiving system. The physicians referred to here are required to register the patient's membership and to register it by creating a patient's tab by an accredited user in the ‘Registering Officer’ category. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] In the National Register of Patients COVID -19 all relevant cases are recorded, whether cases registered and not yet classified ‘confirmed’ or cases registered and classified ‘confirmed’. Finally - I will use a little bit of the time of my dentistry, Madam President - in Article 5, it stipulates that the management and supervision of the National Register of Coronary Patients will be carried out on behalf of the Ministry of Health of the Department of Therapeutic Protocols by the Ministry of Health and by the Ministry of Health of this Department, the management of the National Register will be carried out by this department and by the scientific supervision of the Committee for the Management of Extended Contractors. With regard to your second question, regarding the term 'under investigation samples', I would say that perhaps there has been some confusion in how this charge is understood. They are not ‘examinations under investigation’. These are ‘extended requests for registration’ I would remind you that the possibility of recording relates primarily to and is carried out in the register and the register was immediately found under an operational procedure. The EGE may, at the same time, carry out an epidemiological inquiry based on L.4633 its constituent for traceability purposes. The unambiguous, therefore, outstanding, although the effects of users and hospitals may not have even been finalised, does not in any way mean that they were positive or that they were not included in the epidemiological reference. All positive cases are therefore recorded and the tracking process has been followed. Therefore, the existence of these investigated samples - of the remaining ones - will allow me to say - is mainly due to the pressure that the health system has received, resulting in their delay in recording them and, moreover, we have had to complete certain digital connections so that we can have the picture that we all want. After the technical resolution of the issues by the HICP, it was investigated how to retrospectively update the register with the results of these outstanding results, which I repeat that in no case were cases which we ignored were positive and were not followed by the tracking process. Furthermore - and I shall end, Madam President - to facilitate health in the recording of the results of the samples, it has been implemented in the online application of the register of specific selection of mass information for samples so that a laboratory can choose many samples together and assign them results. The possibility of changing the laboratory to which a sample is assigned should some samples be assigned to one laboratory, but when they are entered in the register they are eventually sent to another laboratory for service. Informational interface has been implemented with a view to interoperability with laboratories having LIS systems in order to automated the registry update with the laboratory audit results and no time is required to update each outcome separately, through the internet application of the registry. Finally, it is noted that the delays in updating the observed registry caused both its publication under No 76134-26-11-20 of the Secretary-General of Health Services and its publication under No 8389/10-12-20 of the General Secretary of Public Health, with specific recommendations and instructions to recipients. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u81	Minister, after all, how many records do you keep? They've seen the light of publicity double books, journalists have been fired for these reasons. Now you come and tell us that two hundred and fifty three thousand seven hundred samples are somewhere between registration and not knowing which is positive, we know which is negative. I can't understand why, since you knew what the positive is, and what the negative ones, this number didn't register it directly, and there is a loose end and it was growing out of the two hundred and fifty-three thousand, it reached two hundred and sixty-three thousand. Was it so hard to register them as positive or negative? We're talking about government, state, state, 5G, gov.gr, etc. And you're telling us that you can't build a database where there will be certain positive and negative? Because you referred to scientists etc., I asked scientists who have access to this page, but no one knew what the two-two-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three samples in investigation mean and why they accumulated all this time. From that point on, you said you were conducting thirty thousand tests every day. I mentioned yesterday's numbers, thirteen thousand, on Saturday fourteen thousand, fourteen thousand, on Friday fourteen thousand. Seeing the data and compared to a smaller country, Cyprus, on 28-1 Cyprus carried out per thousand inhabitants 12,24 tests, our country 2,64. On 29-1 Cyprus carried out per thousand inhabitants on 13,76, our country 2,82. And do you continue to speak and consider that the government's priority is to carry out diagnostic checks and that you respect and respect the experts' recommendations? Ultimately, today, how much are the tests under investigation? After presenting it to us as something normal, which is a registration procedure, how much are these tests under investigation today? Have you downloaded it, or by entering that record, can you see it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u82	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Sarakiotis, I will repeat once again - we have made it clear many times in the past - that the National Register of Coronovirus is one, a number, a register for the whole country. It is reasonable to have subsystems that support the operation of this registry. I think that this is not unprecedented, in all the states or every body having its own systems, which operate with the National CIVID-19, which also gives us information. I also stressed that these samples which have not been registered are pending. We gave priority to the registration of positive samples. That is why I repeat that these surveyed samples may not yet have been registered, their registration has not been finalised, but in no case does it mean that we did not know what was positive or the positive samples were included in our traces and in our epidemiological reports. This is therefore a technical issue, which under no circumstances changes the image we have on the numbers of the pandemic in the country. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, too, Minister. We move on to the fifth, with number 1370/2-11-2020, question from the petitions by SYRIZA's MP - Progressive Alliance Mr. Socrates Famelou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Obvious demonstration of the impotence of the government to administer the Koronia Lake". The Secretary of State for the Environment and Energy Mr George Amyras will answer. Mr. Colleague, you have two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Undersecretary, good start. We will contribute to the parliamentary control process. I hope you're giving us answers that solve problems and not union in here. The issue of Cornelia is very crucial for central Macedonia and for my region - you understand - but also for the country, since it is one of the most important wetlands. Unfortunately, your predecessor has shown a particular refusal to answer questions - I am referring to Mr Hatzidakis - because this question has been tabled three times. It has now become timely because it has not been answered. It was tabled on 10 July, 1 October, 2 November, Madam President, but the Ministry refused. Unfortunately, in Lake Cornelia, the problem isn't that you've been late for the last six months. We stopped somewhere in July 2019. At that time in the summer, Mr. Hatzidakis had gone. In the conditions of constant anomombia, the situation of the lake deteriorated rapidly. He had, of course, discussed that, the body had located it. What did this deterioration show? That restoration works were not maintained and there was a serious issue and restoration works and technical projects and a observation of ecological parameters. So the Ministry came, then what did he do? What we are tabling, Mr Secretary-General, is that these initiatives were only communication. Mr Hatzidakis said at that time: '800,000 grant, setting up a coordinating multidisciplinary interdisciplinary holistic approach committee - it is not enough for me to breathe - and place a coordinator'. But even though this was announced somewhere in November, the decision came out five months later. Where are the emergency measures? How will a situation help? But be careful, even though five months later the announcements came out, March if I'm not mistaken, eventually no one knows the work that that coordinator did, because he didn't do anything. Nothing has been announced, Mr. Amyras, sincerely. I'm in Thessalonica, I haven't heard anything. Then comes Law 4685, the anti-environmental law, cancels the body it puts into overthrow - if you like - in this Athenian-centric system of the Ministry of the Environment, and then Mr.4685 comes again to Law 4691 - this is rather in June 2020 - and defines a coordinator and special office in the Ministry of the Environment. I mean, without dismantling the other coordinator and the interdisciplinary committee, this giant puts a new one and builds an office at the Ministry of the Environment. The first question is: Where is it, Mr Amyras, this office at the Ministry of the Environment, at which address? The Special Secretariat for Waters and the Special Inspection Secretariat were abolished. It's a question. Where is he? Because then Mr Hatzidakis said and I read, Madam President, from the Minutes: 'The coordinator will do a silencing job to stop fragmentation of responsibilities and deal with this case in the morning, noon, night. He will do nothing else." So Mr Symeonidis, the second coordinator - within one year all this - and we are now coming 15 months after Mr Hatzidakis' announcement, ten months after the decision to appoint the first coordinator and the committee and six, seven after the second and the project team to find that nothing has happened yet, Mr Amyras. And we don't know if there's an administrative structure, because I'm afraid that's going to happen with the FYROM. All the activities of the natural environment in the region of the country will be transferred to an Athenian centre - let me say that - from some blue children, but nothing will happen in our areas. To close, Madam President, I would like to ask: what are the things that have been going on for over a year and a half in the two committees and the two coordinators' working group? What are you going to do? Has this administrative unit been established and served? Which address and organisational chart is it mentioned? I'll see you later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr Famele, my dear colleague, I also certainly look forward to effective cooperation. As far as Cornelia is concerned, it is something that we were concerned with - if you remember when you too were Deputy Minister for the Environment - in the Committee on the Environment. We had even taken a trip to see why they were going on or not going on some projects. In any case, the Cornelia Lake, Madam President, is a very painful story. In the past, in the 1960s, it was the fourth largest lake in Greece. At the beginning of the 21st century - 2000 with a peak in 2009 and also in 2001 - its level fell to one metre and under one metre, when in the 1960s, as I told you, it had a depth of eight meters. Many factors have led Lake Coronia and by simple vision to understand that she has a problem. There is, of course, anthropogenic activity that has been pushing it for decades. We have too many - I would say - waterproofing, which is not done as it should be. There are unauthorized hydrolysis. We also have the suffocating pressure that the lake ecosystem undergoes from the lake settlements, some of which do not have biological cleansing. In any case, to be more specific about what my dear colleague, Mr Famelos, asks me, as to who is responsible for these projects that need to be done, it is clear to you that the Ministry of the Environment and Energy has it. The environmental restoration of the lake is our responsibility and responsibility, in accordance with Article 33(1) of Law 4691 passed last year. It's Mr. Hatzidakis' law. You ask me where there is an address or a department specifically concerned with Lake Coronia. I will tell you that it is not mentioned anywhere since there is an umbrella under which all the relevant services, namely the General Secretariat of our Ministry, the Directorate-General for Water, the management body of Coronea, the coordinator you mentioned, and of course the funding bodies, such as the Green Fund. [[At this point, the President-in-Office takes over the E'S Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS]] You ask me, what actions and urgent actions the Ministry has taken to restore the Koronea Lake. The key to this matter, and at this point in time, Mr Famele, is the cost of the EUR 800 000 we have committed to the Green Fund in order to make the necessary projects in the reform basin. What are these works? My predecessor, my excellent colleague, Mr Tagaras, has given too much time, too much energy, on this issue all the previous months. Here, therefore, there must be some very important work to get rid of the cassettes, which gather on the channels and the basin, to remove and make better management of the water of the two torrents, the School and the Lagadis. Also, to restore the lake, so that the lake only ends up with water and not with firing materials. That's something going on. We are ready and planning, of course, by following the design that has taken place for some time - to proceed with a programme agreement with the Municipality of Lagada, which is the largest - the Municipality of Volbis is of course also involved - with the Egnatia Road. In fact, on December 8th, there was an autopsy from the Egnatia Road in the area. Egnatia Street has the know-how to undertake such projects. We are in this communication and in consultation with them. From there on, of course, I can speak out of text by saying this. I have asked for your plan to be put down, the master plan for the restoration of the lake which unfortunately did not work, since we are now accountable to the European Union court. A second conviction is being threatened, so the fine is being imposed. I see things open. I have asked to see, therefore, what of these actions that were, in theory, closed on the days of SYRIZA's governance, and that is why they were sent to the permanent Greek delegation in Brussels to close the case and not to get a second sentence, so a second fine. If I find anything with the services, of course, that we need to keep going, we'll continue. I just want to remind you that after 2019, i.e. two months after SYRIZA's departure from governance, I would remind you that we had the massive killing of fish in the lake that mobilised the court of the European Union again. We now have the tampering break of the fine on our head.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u88	Minister, you have a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u89	Of course, you are absolutely right. I conclude by saying that you have referred to the OFYPEKA. She's not gonna be an Athenian center at all. There will be central planning, but management will be locally. Central planning - local management. I'll tell the rest of it in dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u90	Minister, we have a second. Mr. Femelle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u91	Mr. Secretary, I take it from where you left it to make it clear. Mr. Hatzidakis had gone to the lake when we had the fish deaths and talked about immediate measures. Today we have been in the seventeen or eighteen months since. You've just admitted now, Mr. Secretary, that the money is still in the Treasury. Nothing's happened. First official of Mitsotakis Government. Secondly, you have told me that you have the general assessment of the Ministry of the Environment. There's the dear colleague, Mr. Tagaras, who was there a while ago. Take note of article 33 of Law 4691 that you brought as an amendment to a bill by Mr Vorides, the Minister for Rural Development, and not to a law by Mr Hatzidakis, he said of the creation of a special office unit. I would ask you, therefore, about something you have legislated and said to me: 'In general terms, the Ministry is responsible'. We're not going well, Mr. Amyras. I asked you about your law. I didn't vote for him, I had a personal issue then, and SYRIZA. But are you telling me that what you voted on does not apply? So neither the money and the works nor the one you voted on. You've just unleashed it now. You said: 'Greatly responsibility'. But generally responsibility won't go anywhere. I also asked you: Two coordinators, one committee what did they do eighteen months? Tell me one thing they did. To show you the arrhythmia, I will give you a specific fact to solve it, Mr Amyras. You told me that you were working with the Municipality of Lagada, the Municipality of Volbis, the Egnatia Street for cleaning works. By decision 57 on 10 June 2020, the Region of Central Macedonia, from which you took responsibility, has launched a cleansing work of the moat and canals, which you now say will be doing with the Egnatia Road and the municipalities. There is one question here. Do you finally have coordination or have you been completely disassociated? Because what I see, Mr Amyras, is not doing anything either. Really, do you even have them? I think Mr. Vlachocostas and Mr. Symsonides are. Tell us at least this, who you're talking to, to know, to visit him and ask. It is a region of particular interest to us, all of Greece, because it is indeed a sensitive ecosystem and its rehabilitation is a commitment to the European Union and it needs cooperation. It is therefore the region from which you have taken responsibility, a project of 800,000 euros, which you now tell us is being discussed with Ennaia Street and the Municipality of Lagada. I don't know if you know that, Mr. Amyras. I would also like to say to you: since you have said that the municipality of Lagada, the Region of Lagada, the Ministry of Rural Development, and you are taking all the responsibilities to the Ministry, are now redistributing powers? You said it in the legislature. Mr Hatzidakis had come to the amendment and said so. He practically said that all of these cannot do their job and takes the responsibilities all back. Neither the entity nor the municipality nor the region nor the local services of the decentralised administration. And finally, we see that the Region of Central Macedonia is in breach of the law, which you are telling us is doing with other bodies. We are witnessing the manipulation of this government. You create places to help some potentially loved ones to you, you do not tell us what they have done eighteen months. At least admit that, Mr. Amyras. You're a reasonable man. Tell us what they did for eighteen months, a cleaning work to be done. You came and created a communal storm with Mr. Hatzidakis, but you did nothing and you left the area and left. I say you come to the Committee on the Environment, Mr Amyras. We were with Coordinator I and Coordinator II to finally see what they're doing. But be careful. You have managed to legitimise EUR 140,000 directly, because the problem was urgent. Mr President, eighteen months later the project has not yet been found in the implementing body. What, then, is the direct award of such a budget after you have done nothing? Why does the special office law still remain, if you say you don't have to? In conclusion, Mr President, you referred to the European Court of Justice. Note: You as a government go out and say that projects are not being implemented and the master plan's executions are not being cleared, which is 20 years old. It's not SYRIZA's master plan, SYRIZA has shut down the master plan's conviction, you're renouncing it. It is therefore an old retreat from the prefecture before the region, which we closed the file in the European Court of Justice with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Institutions, Mr Amyras.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u92	Please finish, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u93	I'm closing, Mr. President. You are now coming and saying that the services are not enough, that the works are not cleaned, that the lake has no environmental balance. Do you have trips in the country? Are the things you testify to here are causing problems in supporting the country? Because you have proved that you cannot clean up a moat, auction two project operators, you have two coordinators without doing anything, and you do not know which service in your ministry has the responsibility of the file. Mr. Amyras, please show some seriousness to find a way to work with.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u94	Thank you. Here, Minister, you have the floor. Please be within your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u95	Yes, Mr. President, I will. Dear Mr Famele, you too must show the utmost seriousness in this matter. So let's see what you were saying and what you did, the SYRIZA government. On July 28, 2015, the then Deputy Minister for the Environment, Mr. Tsironis said that Coronia was a symbol of the ineffectiveness of the pathogens of Greek society for decades. Today we are called upon to rebuild this damaged ecosystem. How? By reuse, savings and rational management of water resources in agricultural production, etc. To take a leap in time, then, over your days. On 18 September 2019, the President of the Management Agency of Coronias, Volbis and Halkidikis said to the Athenian News Agency: "In addition to the drought, an important role in reducing the level of the lake plays the barrier with fertile materials and reeds of the channel created to divert the two torrents and the burials." It adds: "The restoration of the lake depends largely on the hydrological conditions, but also of course on the maintenance of the projects which have not been done, since no manager has been appointed to claim funds to do the necessary work". So be careful, please, what you're saying. Because it's not what you did, it's mostly what you don't do to restore the lake. Also, who told you that you closed the case with the European Union? Are you now serious and responsible? Why isn't the file closed? For two months after SYRIZA left the government, we had this incident by mass killing of fish. Suddenly, what happened? The fish have decided to kill themselves in a healthy ecosystem? We go down to the answer to that category that you say we want to appoint - it says - we people of ours. Where did you see these? So I'll tell you about the Protected Area Management Units. Does the establishment of Central Aegean, Northeastern Aegean, Skyros and Evia, West Thessaly, Eastern Crete, Corinthian Gulf, Sparta and Edessa Annex? They are the bodies that you have set up, on your day, under your signature and which have neither one worker, but have boards of directors. Some of the institutions don't even have offices. What did you do that to then? Why did you go to such fragmentation and to such a multi-purpose staffing with management boards and without a worker from the actors in protected areas? I conclude, Mr President, and I say that there are no two coordinators. There's only one coordinator. He is unpaid - for what you say he will take money from here and there - he has not taken a single euro and never thought of what you and you are accusing us of. So our direct actions are clear and clear. It is the settlement of the chaotic situation we have received with the supposedly revised and sealed master plan of your days. And from there, I told you, we will make the remedial moves, we will see definitively, as Mr Hatzidakis had already done, Mr Skreka's predecessor at the Ministry of the Environment, and on the basis of this road map we will move. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u96	Thank you. We continue with the sixth under No 2223/30-11-20 Ask by SYRIZA MEP - Progressive Alliance Mr Socrates Famelou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Why is consultation on the Environmental Impact Study (MPC) of the Western Sector of Central Macedonia (MPC) in the midst of a pandemic and a general curfew to be promoted and pending decisions in the S.E.'??' The State Secretary for the Environment and Energy will answer Mr Nikolaos Tagaras. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes, and please stay in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Amyras, Mr Tagaras will be briefed just now on a case involving the wider area of Coronea, on a project in which he gave a negative opinion and the services hid it. This is a serious issue that we are discussing now. That's why I said if you want, listen to the start. We therefore have, Mr Tagaras, the second question which is being asked on the same subject, on the Western Waste Processing Unit in the wider area of Mygdonia Basin, that is, in the area of Lake Coronia. The first was submitted May 25th. We therefore point out - you too, Mr Amyras - that in the certificate of placement and in the debate on its licensing, while joining the unit within the C Zone of Protection of the National Park of the Koronia - Volbes Lakes, the Ministry of the Environment and Energy, Mr Tagaras, with a document issued by the Director-General for Environmental Policy, it is of the opinion that the project is category A2. And now you have a file in consultation environmental impacts that it's A1. That is the first issue, then. The Ministry shall deliver an opinion incorrectly on the classification of the project. At the same time, Mr Amyras and Mr Tagaras are not present at the same time, any reference to the body and, indeed, the Management Body for Solid Waste hides that there is a negative opinion. In other words, the lake operator you referred to, Mr. Amyras, has a negative opinion because it says that it is within the C zone and the C zone of the National Park, no A1 level is allowed. The Ministry hides this and hides the body's opinion. And we see, despite the negative opinions, that we have two appeals from the Municipality of Lagada and the "Friends of the Earth" in Assirro, and even though there is recourse to the Council of State for the first act on the approval of a placement right now, the New Democracy, within a pandemic, is starting a consultation - which was probably completed, the time has passed - for the environmental impact study based on the wrong opinion - because the dossier now says that it is A1 work and the specific environmental study of the region says that A1 projects are prohibited in that area - and with a lack of transparency in the Council of State. And all this, Mr President, for a project which was financed with EUR 3.7 million, together with others, for the Solid Waste Management Agency to become public. So now you come and do PPP at the Coronia-Volves National Park, Mr. Amyras, with a negative opinion from the body. Mr. Tararas, will you let the licensing process develop with this loose end? I'll come back to my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Undersecretary, I'll beg you to be in time too. You've got a second. Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleagues, the Waste Processing Unit in the West Sector of the Region of Central Macedonia is, as you know, one of the largest - if not the largest - interventions in the treatment and resolution of the problem with solid waste and part of the National Waste Management Plan. And you know that this time - lately - there have been too many moves to resolve a time-consuming and major problem, which certainly concerns the protection of the environment. It covers five counties of central Macedonia, in addition to the Regional Unit of Thessaloniki and the municipalities of the Prefectures or Regional Units of Pieria, Imathia, Pellas and the Municipality of Paionia of the Regional Unit of Kilkis. We are talking about a quantity of three hundred thousand tonnes - that is the assessment of the study - of which about thirty-eight thousand tonnes will go per year. They are pre-specified biowastes, while treatment residues will be used to produce energy. It's a standard mechanical and biological treatment unit. Separate biodegradable plastic waste and recover all recyclables with a view to drastically reducing the volume and risk of waste to be disposed of and reducing the need for continuously searching for land for land for land for land for land for land for land for land use. You also know from the services - because you mentioned - that there is no possibility in this C Zone of the National Park of Coronia - Volbia to allow a Waste Processing Unit. What the same services are answering is - and is foreseen by the Special Environmental Study in this area - that what CIDs are forbidden is the Uncontrolled Waste Management Areas. On the other hand, it is not forbidden within this area, for which we are discussing an organised waste treatment unit. In any case, however, as far as the management body's decision is concerned and because of the conditions of consultation, but also on the matter of the Council of State, I would like to say a few words before the time of my prototype is completed. I'm sure all opinions are taken into account. And the negative opinion of the Coronea - Volvis and Halkidiki management body will certainly be taken into account and will be taken into account with all the views that exist from all the institutions. You know that there has been an excellent job to choose the place. Many areas have been proposed until they reach this site, after many criteria have been taken into account. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] But since time is over and the president wants me to be typical, I'm going to go on with my second language.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u100	Thank you. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Undersecretary, I'm falling down from the clouds. I did not expect you to say that the only thing forbidden in a national park is the Uncontrolled Waste Disposal Areas. They wrote this to you. I'm going to tell you a little bit about things as they apply and not as they were written or you want to present them. Mr. Secretary, there was no good evaluation of the location option. And I wonder - and all the Prefecture and the City of Lagada and the residents wonder why the ministry is backing up in this process. Because a unit which serves 60% of the Thessaloniki Prefecture and three other counties west, goes to the east corner. Is that a good placement? And within the Koronea National Park and with a negative body opinion and even hiding the negative opinion! Watch out, why, since it's all right, did you hide the negative opinion? And why would the Ministry's Director General be consulted that a unit is level A2 while it is A1 based on classification? I don't get it. If it were all right, Mr. Undersecretary, you wouldn't do that. Here we state clearly that the Ministry of the Environment and Energy is putting back on a path against environmental legislation, which will get you into the Council of State, will delay a project which is clearly not in the centre of production and the centre of weight and transport of waste, and, Mr Amyras, is in a national park. You need to find these first things between you two. I give you time and we give you time to discuss them because there is a matter here. In the C protection zone such activities may not be installed. Here I really want you to tell us what part the Ministry of the Environment plays because with the anti-environmental n.4685 you have put that if the services don't consult within a specific time it passes by pass. Did you put it into the pandemic, where half the services are missing due to teleworking and special permits, to pass the work without an opinion and get environmentally licensed, as you were, Mr. Tagaras? That's why I'm asking what part the Ministry of the Environment is. Because he's not just the body, no, he's not just the coroner with a negative opinion. As far as I can see, the Directorate-General for Forestry and Rural Affairs of the Decentralised Administration has also given a negative opinion on why there are streams in the area and on the ground there is a proposed placement. And you'll hide that, Mr. Tagaras? So, two appeals to the Council of State, one of which, one of the municipality's, negative opinion, negative opinion from the Decentralised Administration, in streams and in a national park, ending up in Cornea, Mr. Amyras, and you will put back on them? Mr. Tagaras, you don't have to answer today. Keep a reservation. Look for it a little better. Don't put back on a boom at the expense of Cornelia. Do not put back on a procession against the citizens and the municipality because the project is not properly spaced. It cannot be in the eastern corner, as if we were to say a project that serves Greece to be spaced in Evros. That's what you did in central Macedonia. Imathia, Pieria, Pella and western Thessaloniki are located on the eastern border with the Prefecture of Serres? Where did you get these, Mr. Tagaras, written? You need to look into it because this procedure isn't right. I would like to say, Mr President, that, in order for us to be all right, the memorandum tabled by the 'Friends of the Earth', the Environmental Association of Asseros, not to say that you do not know them, so that you too can know what the local society says. Take a look at the Memorial of the Municipality of Lagada. Do you know who the editor is? It's Mr. Sarigiannis, the professor of environmental engineering from Aristotle. Take a look. You know that lately you have been following his proposals, which you have not followed on the evolution of cases in Thessaloniki. Everything finally plays a role in this period.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u102	Thank you. The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleagues, first of all I say once again that the waste treatment plant in this area is compatible and not incompatible with what is stated in the specific environmental study. Knowledge is heard from everyone and all opinions are taken into account to reach the best solution - position. As far as consultation time is concerned, there are special conditions does not mean that life stops. After all, it is through an electronic environmental register that everyone in charge is given the opportunity to know the peculiarities and to express their views, and they have all been expressed. As far as the actions to be brought to the Council of State in this case are concerned, there is no decision of the Council of State. And if something is judged even afterward, because nothing remains hidden, here we are talking about it. But at the moment there is no ban on the process. As far as this issue is concerned, you know, because I am an old self-government, and you know, because you have dealt with similar issues, that the issue of placement for solid waste treatment plants has been the dominant problem that we have not solved for too many years, what we are discussing today. We all accept garbage everywhere, in bulk, to press them, to watch them, and when we go to define an area that is finally organized, which is controlled from all sides, and environmentally, and the effects in general, reactions begin. It's a permanent problem over time. It is the responsibility of all of us, respecting the peculiarities and concerns, at last, that this problem ends. We cannot just sit watchers on all that is evolving. For me, what it is necessary is for the best possible position to be chosen, to be controlled from all sides. There are studies, there are conditions, there are controls, but at last, they will end up with all these garbage that is everywhere to go to an area where we are going to control it and not to bury waste. We are the first country in Europe where we are burying and expanding spaces to bury more. This cannot go on. So there is no legal certainty on the part of the Council of State - and here we are, and this is not the case in any decision - we are not hiding anything from anyone. The opinion of the management body shall be taken into account and all opinions shall be taken into account. Above all, however, it is the interests of society, health, with environmental protection. That is our responsibility, and that is why we will be judged. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u104	Thank you. Please be all in time. We continue with our first question under number 334/22-1-2021 of the First Circuit of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Sultanas (Tanyas) Eleftheriadou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject of "Back of workers' rights in the Kavala Fertilizers Industry by Laurentis Laurentiadis and protection measures for unpaid workers at the Kavala Fertiliser plant". The Deputy Minister for Labour and Social Affairs will answer Mr Panagiotis Tsakloglou. Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor for two minutes to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u105	Minister, I come before you for once on a matter that concerns the society of Kavala and the whole of Greece and should finally have your own ministry. This is the most extreme case of employers' arbitrariness in Greece, but at the same time also of the most obvious development of illegal business at the expense of the Greek public. Employer and entrepreneurial inconsistency in the country's only compost industry has a name. Its owner is Mr. Laurentis Laurentiades, the recently convicted of infidelity, Mr. Laurentis Laurentiadis. On this was agreed by the Minister himself, Mr Hatzidakis, at a relatively timely question put by your party in the House in December 2018, during which Mr Hatzidakis - and I convey his words - successfully described what is happening at the Kavala plant. So he said that "ELFE" is a company of interests essentially Laurentis Laurentiadis, which has large debts to PPC, PPC, banks and has been deaf. He also said that Mr. Laurentiadis has been denounced for illegal and compact mediation with the creation of virtual companies, in which he went through ELFE's assets, to avoid paying his debts and I to add to it, and to ensure that he gets rid of all his employees or turn them into contractors. Although the Ministry has proved to be aware of this and even though you have been beaten by a bell both I and other Vice-Population MPs, it seems that you do not understand what really happens and what you must do and do absolutely nothing. Your interest in this case, in Mr Laurentis Laurentiadis' infringement behaviour was temporary, superficial and unique at that particular time, just to serve micropolitical purposes. Under the auspices of SYRIZA in 2018, the workers returned to work and the invasive behaviour ceased. Under the auspices of the New Democracy, workers were expelled in December at the end of 2019. They're still not in their work. Mr. Laurentiadis continues to ban them from entering the factory. They're still not paid. They're still blackmailing. And recently, Mr. Laurentiadis, taking courage from your government's behaviour, testified against them for a slandering defamation requesting the two million euros, because they dared to say that Mr. Laurentiadis is behind the parent companies at the factory of the compost industry in Kavala, the same as Mr. Hatzidakis said.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u107	I'm done. And while you know all this, both the Kavala RCF and the Ministry of Labour and Ms. Hrainaki are deaf. On Friday, once again, he refused to attend a three-way meeting that we had at the Ministry of Labour to do audits. He refused to impose administrative fines. He refused to go...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u108	You're welcome, my colleague. You've spent three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u109	We'll cut off my dentistry. He refused to submit press reports on the non-payment of salaries. He refused to take the place of the workers and has been tolerantly tolerated for a year now for everyone's employment rights to be destroyed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u110	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u111	We therefore ask you whether you intend to condemn Mr Laurentiadis' illegal practices and to intervene immediately so that the thirty-five workers can return to work.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u112	Thank you. You should normally not give a second answer if we want to go over time, but we want things to be a little condescending.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u113	Maybe I don't have to, if the Minister gives me an answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u114	A little hard. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u115	Madam Eleftheriadou, thank you very much for your question, because it enables me to answer a serious question concerning a hundred and thirty-four employees at "ELFE SA" and to inform you about the position of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs after completing the trialogue meeting - consultation that took place, as you said, just last Friday. According to written information from the APRC, the thirty-four employees were employed under a loan contract by ‘ELFE SA’ in the company ‘NEY CARVALI S.A.’ until 31/12-2019. As the relevant Labour Relations Inspectorate has informed us, from January 2020 until today, the complainants do not provide any work, because they did not sign the loan contracts with the company that operates within the “New CARVALS LIMITS” plant when requested. In the context of the resolution of the labour dispute provided for in labour law, the relevant procedure was carried out on 2-10-2020 and, taking into account that the signature of the loan contracts is the right of each worker, the agency instructed the workers to use the relevant courts. Regarding the question of wages for these employees, ELFE S.A. has paid the wages for January-May 2020. Taking into account that the subject matter of the above-mentioned labour dispute was the non-payment and delay in the payment of wages June, July, August and September 2020, it was noted that the employees have been paid up to and including July 2020 in the course of November 2020, while for the remaining months, August and September 2020, it was agreed that their wages should be paid in the month of December 2020. As stated by the company, the delay in the payment of the wages is due to the fact that the employer’s accounts are frozen, in which case the payment is made either through the Deposit and Loan Fund or through a bank cheque, as was done with the payment of the June and July 2020 wages. On 16-12-2020 the company, via a bank check, paid the Christmas gift. The service was informed by the company by e-mail for the first time on 30-12-2020 and then on 18-1-2021 on the procedure for setting up deposit accounts for the repayment of the months of August and September 2020 respectively. Finally, according to the RCF, on 25 January 2021, the company informed that a deposit order was started, in which case employees may collect the salaries of August and September 2020, as well as the 2020 licence allowance. As regards the payment of the wages October, November and December 2020, the Agency intends to initiate the labour dispute directly by sending an invitation to both members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u116	Thank you for the time, Minister. My colleague, you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u117	Minister, I'm really surprised. Your Ministry accepts that the employer has the right to pay the employee a delay of five to six months, and even with an illegal procedure through a Deposit and Loan Fund from other companies' accounts, because ELFE S.A. accounts are committed, as you said. I have tabled a question to see whether this procedure is legal. The salary shall be paid a declarant day, at the end of the month to which the work has been provided. We are talking about a delay of more than six months, and the Kavala SAR and the Ministry of Labour have not submitted the administrative sanctions and have not filed a complaint with the prosecutor, even though the workers have asked for it. Also, does your Ministry accept that the employees will sign a false loan? You know that "ELFE S.A." has hired the factory by 2035, so is the date that the concession of the factory will be stopped by the Greek State at "ELFE S.A."? Mr. Laurentiadis has been awarded the plant by 2035 and by 2035 he has leased it to participating companies. What law says that workers are obliged by 2035 to sign loans? That's illegal. The nature of the employees' loan contract is to be temporary, to serve specific temporary needs and, then, to return to their job. At the moment, ELFE has leased the plant by 2035. Where will the workers return? ELFE is essentially acting as a temporary agency, wanting to rent its employees permanently to the participating companies made by Mr Laurentiadis to exploit the factory. It is illegal for this reason, and for the other reason, that in the industries in which fertilisers are produced due to unhealthy and heavy work and the risk of being employed through temporary employment companies. You understand, what kind of vicious circle has been created and your ministry is deaf? ELFE has no activity. And right now, she wants by 2035 the hundred and thirty-five of her employees to sign fake borrowing contracts, because ELFE has no activity and this should check your Ministry. Anything else is really a partnership with Mr. Laurentiadis. And unfortunately, the document you have just read to me shows that your party, your ministry, and even the director of SEE Kavala, to which we sent out-of-court, has colluded with Mr Laurentiadis' illegal methods. I am still waiting for an answer to this: what action will your Ministry take? What administrative sanctions will it take? Will he file a petition? What action will it take to get workers back to work?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u118	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Eleftheriadou, with regard to the delay in the payment of the accrued, the wages of workers and, following the procedure of the work dispute, which took place before the Cavalas Labour Relations Inspectorate, it is recorded that the accrued earnings of June, July, the Christmas gift and within a few days, until Wednesday, as stated, the repayment of the months of August, September and the licence allowance from the Deposit and Loan Fund have been completed. The Ministry may contribute to speeding up the liquidation process in order to complete the actual payment to employees through the Deposit and Loan Fund. It is also expected that the employer will respond as quickly as possible to the repayment of the remaining months, i.e. October, November and December 2020, preferably immediately as the law states. Otherwise, if there is a real failure to pay by a company, a schedule must be submitted as soon as possible for payment of these debts to the Directorate-General of the Ministry of Labour. Similarly, it is expected that these debts will be repaid in full as soon as possible by the corresponding requirement for payments June to September. A crucial issue, however, remains the development of a safe landscape for the present and future working relations of the workers. In this respect, the Ministry calls on both sides with the presence of their legal representatives and with the full assistance of their services to initiate a dialogue in order to clarify the landscape and make it clear which legal solutions will be chosen: work by providing it to the employer, transferring employment relationships to a successor, a tripartite loan agreement with an indirect employer with the acceptance of workers, termination of contracts of employment. A last-minute development with a letter sent on Sunday, and I received it this morning at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and signed by the Vice-President and CEO of ELFE, is as follows: The company commits, as requested, that by mid-February 2021 will have submitted the timetable for the possibility of paying the wages of October, November and December 2020. I would also like you, for your part, to appreciate and recognise the important role played by the Ministry of Labour as guardian of the protection of work and labour law. On the occasion of this step, I would like to ask all the parties involved to take a step back and to find a mutually acceptable and, above all, sustainable solution. An honest compromise is required under the legislation. The days we're diagnosing are really hard for everyone and maximum sobriety and cooling is required, especially when it comes to the right to work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, Minister, for the time. We continue with the third under No 346/25-1-2021 topical question by MP B3' South Athens of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: “Announcing the redundancies of workers from the Agricultural Foetal Cooperative of Ioannina S.A.I “PINDOS””. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes. Please in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u121	I would like to thank you, Mr President, and ask you for your tolerance to conclude the question. Minister, the developments that existed from the question so far confirmed what was stated in it about the employer's arbitraryness of the Farming Cooperative of Ioannina "PINDOS" and the vengeful, abusive practice towards anyone who is fighting. But let me also ask my second question, since I hear you, I shall refer to developments. It is known that on 30 December the Agricultural Fodder Cooperative Ioannina "PINDOS" was notified of the redundancies of four workers, including the strike on 26 November. We know that "PINDOS" is funded by the public through a development law and is based on contracts with the State. In particular, on the same day of redundancies, the company received the last instalment of nearly EUR 600,000 from the so-called development law for an investment in a total cost of EUR 3,43 million, while in implementation there is still the modernisation and expansion of the poultry market, a budget of EUR 8 million, the meat processing plant and the grilled plant, an increased budget of EUR 3.5 million, as well as the expansion of the feed factory, a budget of EUR 3.5 million. At the same time, the company has already received approval for funding projects totalling EUR 251.474 through European funds. Finally, contracts are made with the Municipality of Ioannina, the Army and dozens of other public bodies. The company is known to have closed in 2019 with a turnover of EUR 270,11 million compared to 250 million in 2018 and 219,89 million in 2017. Because the question is a great one - it was to answer it in writing - I am going to do so. The company itself in mid-October had more than fifty cases of COVID -19 putting at risk the health and life of workers and their families. He, of course, refused to take such measures, which the health committee or the protocols insist on. Under the responsibility of the EGE, the Epirus Region and the State Secretary for Civil Protection, the necessary checks were not carried out in due time. The necessary protection measures have never been taken. There's been an outbreak of dispersion throughout the county. With strike dismissal, the company is attempting to ban trade union activity. It did not even hesitate to request assistance from the police to discontinue the intervention of the President and members of the Labour Centre in Ioannina on the evening of 1-2021, while prohibiting the entry of the President of the Labour Centre on 8 January. According to the director of the company "INDOS", more than sixty redundancies were made in 2020 and intends to do more to increase contract workers by giving more production to contractors, despite the fact that the legislation provides for contractors only in exceptional or seasonal needs.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u122	Please, Mr. Colleague, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u123	We are therefore asking, given the State aid, what measures do you intend to take to withdraw abuses and to protect workers minimum? We understand that the labour difference is the so-called institutional function to investigate whatever theme and to detect a solution, but I believe that the Minister's response to this framework of intervention, which is moving to specific limits, with very few responsibilities, is not enough.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u124	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u125	Thank you again, Mr President. Mr Katsotis, first of all I would like to thank you for your question, which gives me the opportunity to address a critical issue, that of working relations in the middle of a pandemic and that of the Labour Inspectorate. Your question relates to a particular company, the Agricultural Cooperative of Ioannina "PINDOS", in which, as you say in your question, four workers were made redundancies, including the strike on 26 November 2020. Mr Katsotis, according to the written information we had from the APRC and the Ioannina Labour Relations Inspectorate, the Farming Cooperative "PINDOS" carried out two complaints of a contract of employment and two voluntary departures of workers were recorded. Therefore, while you refer to four redundancies in your question, the official documents of the Labour Inspectorate show that there have been two and not four redundancies. One of the two workers, whose contract was terminated, appealed to the Ioannina Labour Relations Inspection Division, requesting a labour dispute, on the subject of abusive dismissal for trade union activity. According to the information we had from the Work Inspection Department of Ioannina, when it was initially determined as the date of the labour dispute on Monday 18-1-2021, the company sent an email request to postpone the debate on Wednesday 27 January. The applicant was informed accordingly. On 27 January, i.e. only last week, the company sent by e-mail a reply to the consultant's legal opinion, in which, inter alia, it states that the applicant's complaint of a contract was made retaliation on the grounds of trade unions, i.e. its participation in the strike of 26 November, as the company claims, that, on the one hand, the complaint of a contract was made after two non-sufficient six-monthly assessments by its superiors and on the other hand, on the day of the strike, the applicant was on a daily basis - on the off-take - and had not been involved in the strike. Finally, the legal adviser of the undertaking notes that that undertaking is fully ignorant of the trade union activity of the applicant. That's what the operation says in writing to the APRC. On the same day, on 27-1-2021, the applicant's lawyer, informed of the company's claims, received a copy of the company's memorandum and, in order for it to be placed, asked the company to send the applicant to the Service of the Ioannina SAR the two assessments referred to in the Memorandum and kept up to date. According to written information from the APRC, the applicant's lawyer came to the next day and stated that, taking into account, firstly, the company's memorandum, secondly, the refusal of the company to proceed with the copies of the applicant's assessments by the managers and third parties, the fact that in the annual establishment's schedules, but also from the weekly programme placed within the operation, which he produced - and from the copy of the applicant's electronic message to his heads that he would participate in the strike on 26 November, it is shown that the applicant was working normally on 25 and 26 of the month and that on 26 of the month he was abducted, as you say in your question. Furthermore, the applicant’s side considers that the refusal of the undertaking to submit the copies of its mandate is a criminal offence, for which it is also reserved. Later on that day, the company sent an e-mail stating that it would not produce the applicant’s assessments on the grounds of personal data and an internal procedure. A recommendation was made by the AAC service to the company to eliminate all margins and return the employee to work. However, if the company persists in the complaint, the APRC recommends to the applicant that the civil courts responsible for judging the termination of a contract of employment be brought before them. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] Because I have exceeded my time, not to abuse the time of my prototype, on issues of economic activity for the cooperative and contractors, as well as the measures of the pandemic, I shall refer to my second language. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u126	Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u127	Minister, we have called on you not to repeat what the Ioannina Labour Inspectorate says, because it operates within specific limits. We are at a time when the government has unfolded all its anti-government, anti-insurance policy, continuity in the reduction of trade liberties. It has highlighted the repression, authoritarianism, the persecution of trade union action, the persecution of pioneer workers as the condition of implementing legislative overthrows, which, of course, carry out claims from business groups. The working conditions of the jungle, employers' arbitrage are based precisely on the policy of all governments - not only yours - which, despite your differences, have a common strategy for capitalist development, for increasing or maintaining the profitability of large business groups, implementing measures that increase the exploitation of workers and exacerbate their lives as a whole. In the face of the new economic crisis, which the pandemic has brought with it faster, strengthening its depth, you are preparing to bring about the abolition of emblematic rights for workers, concerning the conditions of pay for work, such as the abolition of eight-hour hours, the abolition of overtime pay, the generalization of different forms of employment, such as contractors. You're about to complete the crime in social security. On 27 January the Farming Cooperative "PINDOS" did not come to the recent labour difference, but sent the memorandum that you also read and in which it claims that the worker, for whom you complain, was rejected because he participated in a legitimate strike, was rejected because he was judged by assessments as inappropriate to work, uncooperative and, of course, a reduction in performance, etc. It raises the ground for the dismissal, because it claims that on the day of the strike it had taken place and had not declared its participation in the strike, while in confirming their claims they were regularly paid. We are tabling this document in the Minutes - I will put it all together. In requesting the submission of the assessments, he replied to the Ioannina SAR, invoking personal data and that there is no legal obligation. We are also tabling this document in the Minutes. The "PINDOS" attempts to substantiate its claims in contrast to the facts, exposing the worker with untrue as a matter of fact, in order to avoid any consequences. From the staff tables on November 15 and 27, it appears that the day off is Tuesday and Sunday and not Thursday, which was the day of the strike, as the operation states. From the weekly work schedule for the work programme, which was uploaded to the firm, it is also shown that on Wednesday 25 and Thursday 26 November it normally worked on the programme. However, the worker has been abducted. We are also tabling these documents in the Minutes. The e-mail sent by the worker to the APRC, his superior, proves that he had informed him of his participation in the strike since 25 November. We also put this in the Minutes. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In assessing the data, the Ioannina RCF recommends that the company withdraw the dismissal and that the worker resorts to justice if the undertaking insists. That is what the Minutes are saying, which we are also tabling in the Minutes of the House. The worker filed a complaint with the Public Prosecutor of Ioannina. But, Minister, the company that makes use of every financial instrument from the state budget and other sources for the growth of 'good paid jobs', as you all say here by the ministers of the government, also exploits all the anti-corruption arrangements to reduce the price of labour force by changing working relations and by replacing full-time workers with more costly contractors. Those who are paid with EUR 650 are expensive workers and must be paid with EUR 500-550, without authorisations and without other rights, working in production normally, but with other conditions of remuneration. The director cynically admitted that there will be further redundancies to replace these expensive workers with cheaper workers. Any racing attitude is not allowed at birth by employers to deal with it in the most barbaric way, dismissal and exemplary punishment, because they want to give this message to the rest and to strengthen fear so that exploitation and profitability can inevitably be increased.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u128	Mr. Colleague, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u129	The government instructed the mechanisms to assist the company and prevent the intervention of the Athens Labour Centre, its President, from prohibiting contact with the workers. The responsibility lies with the Government, Minister, and today we have waited for other measures for the company itself to be forced to take back the worker, because he was documentedly fired as a result of his participation in the strike on 26 November. You have not told us that, which we are justified, because your policy is quite different and it is about supporting all this restructuring of businesses.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u130	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u131	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Katsotis, I would like to stay on the subject of your question. I was impressed and I would like to note that the description of the particular case you are doing was exactly the same as the one I mentioned earlier. Now, as regards the issue of the concession of part of the production work which is carried out by subcontractors, according to the information provided by the SEA, the ‘PINDOS Agricultural Cooperative’ refers to its cooperation with six contractors in accordance with the labour legislation and due to the particular needs of the work on a daily basis. In addition to this, and in line with the information provided by the information system ‘ERGAN’, I would like to take into account that the ‘INDOS’ cooperative, who employs nine hundred four people in the year 2020, showed the following changes: Seventy-nine recruitments, fifty-three voluntary departures and twenty-seven contract complaints. These are not the two that I mentioned earlier, since they were in 2021. No move has been recorded in the ‘Cooperation’ programme, while there is participation in the open programme of the hundreds of thousands of new subsidised jobs for five employees, one in October 2020 and four in November 2020. Mr Katsotis, you referred to the question of the financing of the company in relation to its obligation to maintain the same number of jobs. In this regard, according to the RCF, on 18 September 2020 the cooperative employed a total of nine hundred four employees. Furthermore, on this point, an investigation into the information system ‘ERGAN’ showed that, on 31 December 2020, that is to say, at the end of the year, the cooperative again engaged in nine hundred and four employees. In other words, there has been no change in employment at all. Also, according to the APR, all over 2020 and in the middle of a pandemic there is absolutely no move in the employment suspensions of workers in the cooperative. With regard to the cramping of cases of COVID -19 among the staff of the poultry cooperative due to the non-use of protection measures, which fall under the responsibility of audit of the Work Safety Inspectorate of the APRC in October 2020, the above APRC Service sent a document to the company asking for the necessary compliance with the protection measures provided for by the applicable Ministerial Decisions, the EESC Guidelines and the special circulars of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs of the APRC, as well as the APRC of itself, to prevent and limit the spread of the coronary, as well as the provisions of labour legislation on the supervision of workers' health. The company, by replying to the letter of 30 October, stated that it had implemented in full all the measures provided for in the EGE Guidelines and the special circulars of the Ministry of Labour and the AERC. In addition, it had suspended the production process in the poultry market until the completion of the disinfection procedure. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] Since then, according to the AAR, no complaint has been filed with the Ioannina Regional Safety and Health Inspectorate on non-compliance with the measures to prevent the spread of the virus in the cooperative. In conclusion, I should like to refer to the general context. In our country, trade union freedom and action is guaranteed in the Constitution and is protected by international labour conventions, which take precedence over any other provision of the law in accordance with Article 28(1) of the Constitution and are regulated by law by Law 1264/1982. Furthermore, Article 14(4) of that law prohibits the termination of the employment relationship for legitimate trade union activities in general. In other words, there is a causal link between trade union activity and the complaint. I would also like to take into account the fact that in the context of the exceptional and temporary measures taken on the labour market, in order to address and limit the spread of the coronary, the legislation on the protection of trade union rights and the resulting trade union activity has not been changed at all. It's still active and it's getting results. The members of the trade unions may, therefore, be granted access to the premises of undertakings to facilitate their actions, subject at all times to compliance with both the above conditions and the directives and guidelines adopted by the EGE. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We will continue with the second with number 337/22-1-2021 topical question of the second question of the Hercules MP of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Consolidation and surprise of people insured by publications on regulated retirement age limits". Here, Mr President, you have the floor for the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u133	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you will be aware of the press's continuing articles stating that the regulated age limits up to 31-12-2021 - I refer to transitional limits - are abolished from 1-1 to 2022 and anyone who has no chance of establishing a right up to 31-12-2021 will be entitled to the new regime, that is to say, sixty-two years with 40 years of service and sixty-seven years with fifteen years of insurance, that is to say the general rules. One of these publications I will present to you is from the newspaper "TANS". I've got the post here. The Pissaridis report is close to that. On page 109 he says: "On the basis of the changes made in previous years, it is expected that early retirement options will be abolished and a general retirement age of sixty-seven or sixty-two with forty-year contributions will apply." I am tabling the relevant reference to the Pissaridis report. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] At this time, as you know, exit voluntary programs are under way. After the relevant legislation, the ELTA procedure has begun, which is beginning today. People don't know what to do, since they belong to the charge we're talking about, they have guaranteed a pension right by the end of 2021, but it will be based after 1 January 2022 and so they run into legal offices and look for expert information. The state must assume its responsibilities. The Ministry of Labour has so far been silent and its services say that they will be placed in the matter at the end of 2021 if there is no legislative initiative. That is not right, because all this leads to the increase in pension costs, to the overthrow of each pensioner's life planning and, of course, there are issues relating to the general issue of insurance. But what's the matter? We need to see you clearly. It is applicable that the Joint Ministerial Decision of the same year has been adopted, which states that ‘if the transitional age limit provided for in Tables 1 and 2 is reached after 1 January 2022, the pension shall be paid in the year that this new age limit will be supplemented, but with the guarantee that existed before’. In addition, IKA’s circular under number 52 of 2015 states: ‘So, if this case-by-case retirement age, which is reflected in Tables 1 and 2 with the age-limits, is completed with effect from 1 January 2022, the pension entitlement shall be established by supplementing that regulated age’. All this, of course, applies on the basis of the third Memorandum which abolished the previous legislation, the most favourable transitional age limits in force. Today, if there is no clarification in this regard, it seems that the Government is seeking to complete SYRIZA's work to completely abolish the transitional limits from 1 January 2022 and this in the fourth memorandum. That is why I think it is very important for the Ministry to clarify what is happening. We need an answer. Is this joint ministerial decision and the IKA circular? Do you agree that what is guaranteed, but is completed after 1 January 2022, will have the advantage of transitional law? Answers, Minister, clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u135	Thank you again, Mr President. Dear Mr Kegeroglou, I would really like to thank you for the question, because you are really giving me the opportunity to answer a question which is certainly not related to decisions by the Ministry of Labour and the Government. It is quite wrong to put some things in their place to avoid any confusion. What you have already said clearly does not make any difference. If I may myself - I think once in the House itself - and because I happen to have been a member of the Pissaridis committee, I have said that the Pissaridis committee did not say this, but it said that we should not open up new stories with the limits not for those who have guaranteed a pension. The current government has not legislated any change in age limits. Specifically in your question you refer to Law4336 passed by the SYRIZA Government in 2015, which introduced increases to the retirement age of the social security institutions that were later integrated into the ECA. I would like to say from the outset and unequivocally that although it was the former and not the current government that legislated the growths in age limits, it is not in our intentions to change the retirement age limits. Something essential also needs to be cleared up, in answer to your question, is the way in which our legislation lays down the basis for a pension. Establishment of a pension entitlement exists when the insured person completes the minimum period of insurance and the retirement age limit - where provided - which is required for his retirement. The amount to be reported in this column is equal to the difference between the amount to be deducted and the amount to be deducted and the amount to be deducted. These insured persons could continue to be able to exercise their pension rights whenever they wish. The second category is those insured who established a pension entitlement after the entry into force of Law No.4336/2015, that is to say they filled in the old age limit and the time of insurance. For this category with Article 2, transitional age limits determined through specific tables have been established. I would like to mention two examples of how these limits operate, and I think I will cover those things that you have said. The first is relatively easy: a insured person who in 2012 had completed ten thousand five hundred insurance days and completed the fifty-nine year, i.e. the old pension limit of 2016, is entitled to a pension with the completion of the age of fifty-nine and nine months. The second insured person with the same number of insurance days, supplementing the fifty-ninth year, i.e. the old pension limit in 2021, is entitled to a pension at sixty-one and eight months, according to the tables of the transitional limits of age rather than the new general limit. The third category is those insured who have not established a pension right, because during the transitional period they have not completed either the old age limit or the necessary periods of insurance. For these, the age limits for the acquisition of a pension are set at sixty-two years, with forty-six or sixty-seven to fifteen years. On the basis of these examples, I would like to say that there are too many cases of insured and different age limits. In any case, however, it is clear that the fundamental rights do not change and the insured can do so whenever they want to. That is not questioned, and that is what we must be absolutely clear about. In addition, I would like to repeat that in this ministerial decision it is clear that the insured persons who have established their pension entitlement, but who also complete the transitional limit of their pensions after 1 January 2022, their pension is paid in the year when the new pension is completed - this transitional period that you have also said - age limit. Therefore, I would like to assure those who have established their pension rights to date, or that will happen in 2021, that there must be no confusion and no concern. Unfortunately, the publications you refer to do not provide proper information to the insured. Similar provisions to those of the private sector have also been laid down for public sector insured persons. The general pension limits remain at sixty-two to forty-five years of insurance or sixty-seven to fifteen, as in the private sector. It is also the ministerial decision you refer to in your question, which clearly states that the insured persons who have established a pension in the transitional period and who complete the transitional limit either before or after - because this is your question - on 1 January 2022, will receive a pension when they complete the transitional limit. I'll say it again in my denture: don't make the mistake of leaving. They'll get smaller pensions. It's brave the replacement rates for the last few years. I shall refer to this later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u136	Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u137	Minister, you will have realised that the Change Movement and I personally, but also other colleagues, are taking a credible opposition. What we are interested in is clarification of the institutional regime in force - in this case, when there are issues - so that citizens are not brought to wrong decisions. Of course we also control the government in relation to what is institutionalised or must institutionalise or must lead to implementation. Here, too, you admitted that there are publications that are confusing - that is for granted, I have submitted you - either because of the ambiguity of previous law or for any reason of analysis. There is the Pissaridis report - I mentioned specifically - on page 109 - which specifically says what I said to you. I do not know if it is the wrong translation, I do not know if it was written in English, which is also the official language of the European Union. Could have been written in English, because Mr. Pissaridis is a Cypriot and Nobel Prizeman.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u138	Thank God, that's fine.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u139	In English many law authors spoke both on SYRIZA and on previous occasions, but the laws were in English and then translated. That's what I'm saying. The translation may be wrong, but the Pissaridis report is clear here. It says that after 2022 we have the Greek limits and it does not refer to patenting the right before 2021 or 2022. I certainly have the joint ministerial decision, the circular you mentioned, but I would like to say that your answer is clear. All those belonging to the categories included in the transitional age limits - and that applies up to 31-12-2021 - and regardless of whether they exercise the right before or after 1 January 2022, and whether or not they supplement the age limit for the exercise of the right - I think that was clear, the examples you have made on the basis of the circulars that exist - and therefore the people of the ELTA, who are now willing to leave, should take into account the fact that no one who has guaranteed it up to 31-12-2021 if they exercise it from 1 January 2022 or if they do so, after 1 January 2022. Because the right is due to the fact that he had some features before, but the completion can be done afterwards. I think that is clear and I want you to make it clearer in the second instance so that the role of parliamentary dialogue can be achieved, that we have informed citizens and clear intentions on the part of the government. We expect the clear intentions in the direction you have referred to in the speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u140	Mr. Kegeroglu, you didn't want any more time, I guess. I thought you had more to say. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u141	I must say that I am not such an old parliamentarian, but I have never seen the Bureau asking the speaker to speak before, but I have never seen it before.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u142	Mr. Kegeroglu always says great things, that's why we hear him.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u143	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much, Mr Kegeroglu again. It is clear from what I have said in my prototype that there is no need for concern. We do not intend to surprise nor to raise fundamental rights. I want to be categorical in all directions: The age limits are not changing and no fundamental right is going to be affected. In fact, I would like to point out that incorrect information on age limits can lead to erroneous and harmful decisions by the insured. According to the latest insurance reform, the Brutsi Act, in other words, replacement rates over thirty years of working life are particularly increased, leading to higher pensions. It would therefore be detrimental for insured persons to leave earlier fearful changes in age limits, especially for those who have established their pension entitlement, since they will lose a higher pension in this way. On the subject of information, I would like to make another comment, because in your question you refer to the need for guidance from the relevant departments. I would like to inform you at this point that you have already been given instructions from the General Accounting Office of the State - before that, which gave the relevant officials - but also Circulars from the General Secretariat of Social Security, starting from 2015 - you have also referred to one of them - and to this day. Therefore, having already passed all the directives and clarifications to the services, and on the basis of everything I have said, I believe that all the information available to all those involved is available. In conclusion, I would like once again to assure the Greek state that it remains a favoured state. The present Government shall not legislate in its entirety. Insurance issues are difficult and complex. The aim of the Ministry and of me personally is to simplify the rules of award and to establish a sense of security and trust. This is done by stable rules and transparency. I would like to repeat for once that the age limits legal framework has not been differentiated and that is not going to change until 1 January 2022, which is also your question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u144	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We continue with the fifth under No 340/25-1-2021 topical question of the second Boeotian MP of the Change Movement Mr. Georgios Mulkiotis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: ‘We need immediate care for workers employed in the public health sector through the special employment programme of four thousand long-term unemployed under Article 64 of Law 4430/2016 (A'205)’. The Deputy Minister for Labour and Social Affairs will answer Mr Panagiotis Tsakloglou. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, my question title has a specific reference. It says that direct care is necessary for workers employed in the public health sector through the special employment programme of four thousand long-term unemployed under Article 64 of Law 4430. It is the famous case of the four thousand from the OAED programme serving the National Health System. We know that the crisis in which our country has come because of the pandemic after a long-term economic crisis, is testing the resistance of the health system and threatening the lives of the citizens. Unfortunately, every day we learn too much, not so pleasantly, what happens when human lives are lost, people who are next to us. In this first line of battle against the threat, therefore, workers in the National Health System have been taking the lead from the first moment. As a movement of change - you know - we have made concrete legislative proposals, but the government unfortunately never answered. We did indeed with you last week again discuss the integration into the heavy and unhealthyness of the people of the National Health System, as well as the recognition of an occupational disease of the problems that will arise - I wish - from COVID - 19. Amongst these first-line fighters are the four thousand workers in positions of scientific nursing and paramedical staff, but also in other neuro-algal specialities of the public health system, who have for five years been with successive annual renewals of their contracts, have been fulfilling the standing and constant needs of the health system. And we say that they cover the fixed and constant needs of the health system, because, Mr Minister, they are employed in permanent posts, they are fully responsible - as they should - for jobs and effectively - for these jobs, they give their lives, they give their lives, they give their lives in the health system and they are related to parts, with clinics, with the addresses of the health structures. Those workers who are employed in these positions - we are talking about a hundred different qualifications - have been hired under the supervision of the IAS. It's not one of the usual cases. They have been hired under the supervision of the AACC, based on public notices on the 13th of 2016 and then 10th of 2017, to meet these enormous needs that the health area has and is also well known. Minister, to strengthen the health system - you know it as a university, and now in the political capacity and tasks you have - the organic integration of these workers is an undeniable necessity. I cannot say it otherwise, which is why I am saying 'an undeniable need'. Maybe it's a lenient expression. It's not a shape of speech, I'm not saying it to create a climate. It is undeniable for these people to join health structures and to guarantee their permanent employment relationship, in line with the proposals made by the workers. It has been recognised by the Government and here in Parliament on several occasions, during parliamentary scrutiny, that their efforts, their work and their role. They have been recognised as having and covering fixed and permanent needs with a particular specific obligation that the state must show. So the recognition of this social offer of these people in the first line, beyond the applause we all see, must also have a practical effect. And here's Rhodes in that logic and procedure. Question: Minister, is the government prepared to support this category of workers? I am not saying 'this category' to distinguish them. These are the four thousand OAED workers who have been following on since 2016, unrelentingly, unrelentingly serving, serving and serving as long as the Convention is in the National Health System. Is there going to be provision for these people? Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u146	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u147	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Mulkiotis, I would also like to thank you for your question, because you are giving me the opportunity to address another important issue concerning strengthening employment as a whole across the whole range of the labour market, but especially in the health sector, in the middle of a COVID -19 pandemic. Let me start to be very specific and go to the heart of your question. The continuation of the programme of the four thousand jobs in the public health sector to which your question is referred is a governmental option. The employment of the beneficiaries in this programme will be extended for 12 months under the same conditions and under the same conditions. For this period, additional expenditure amounting to approximately EUR 60 million is caused. In addition to the apparent positive effects on the particularly pressurised area of public health, this programme aims to tackle unemployment immediately. The focus is on groups of unemployed who hold general and additional recruitment qualifications and can work in the public health sector with priority for the long-term unemployed and vulnerable groups of unemployed. The responsibility for checking the general qualification of the beneficiaries as well as the formal qualifications required by specialisation and qualifications lies exclusively with the host institution. The hosting bodies are defined as general hospitals, university hospitals, healthcare administrations for their central services, health centres, the Ministry of Health for the Central Service and the Health Suppliers Committee, as well as the bodies supervised by the Ministry of Health which are EEAS, OKANA, KETHA, EOF, CSR and EMCDDA. The gross monthly earnings of the beneficiaries are EUR 1,087 for university education, EUR 1,032 for technological education, EUR 853 for secondary education, EUR 775 for compulsory education. The allowance for dangerous and unhealthy work shall be fixed according to the skills and educational qualifications from EUR 70 to EUR 150 per month. The newspapers are set for daily at EUR 73, for Saturdays and holidays other than Sundays at EUR 108 and Sundays at EUR 125. These remuneration shall be increased by the allowances provided for by specialization, such as dangerous and unhealthy work, night working days, night and daydays on Sundays and exceptional days, as well as on-calls. The benefit for dangerous and unhealthy work is further set at EUR 150 on a monthly basis for the specificity of the crew of the EMCDDA ambulances. By joint decision of the Ministers for the Interior, Economy and Development, and following a recommendation from the Board of Directors of the OAED, priority groups for the longterm unemployed and vulnerable groups of unemployed registered in OAED registries in specific employment programmes in the public sector, as defined in Article 53 of Law 1892/1990, may be integrated. The competent body responsible for implementing, managing and monitoring the specific employment programme of four thousand long-term unemployed in the public health sector referred to in Article 64 of Law 4430/2016 shall be the OAED. He carries out these specific activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u148	Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u149	Minister, we heard what you said. The question, however, has remained unanswered so far. I do not want to put any issues in the debate that should not exist. But I think you understand, as the state has understood, that these people cover up to a hundred specialties. They also cover standing and constant needs. And it is no coincidence that since they joined the program and are serving the ESS, they are not serving in COVID procedures. Their contracts were renewed - and it is very important - twice or three times in a pre-COVID period, which means that under normal conditions their national health system was in need of them. How rather now that these very critical conditions are. The fact that there was a need, however, before the pandemic renewed their contracts means that the National Health System means that the state recognises that there is a problem. Mr. Minister, they are four thousand, they run from Evros to Crete from all over Greece in all kinds of specialties and you know it very well. It cannot therefore be excluded that they do not cover fixed and fixed needs. They have become an integral part of the National Health System. It's in the game, it's in the heart of the National Health System. Without them it locks. No one dared to say that these people are stopping and cannot work or can't provide services. It is understood by anyone out of this Chamber that four thousand people in integrated organic facilities and services cannot serve. What's going to happen today? And yesterday, when it was not this critical treaty, which served with renewal and renewal, was it not a great need for it to be within the National Health System? So something needs to come out. The state must stop the uncertainty of these people. They can't manage departments, manage clinics, run addresses, and then say we don't need them. This contradiction in the state cannot continue. The state must at some point take a position clearly and levedika, Minister, to allow me to use that expression as well. This cannot continue. These people give their souls. You said where they work. Let me also tell you some other cases: in the specific MAPs, ICUs at all hospitals with full support, in the emergency departments, in the TPUs, in the patients with reception coverage, escort information, etc., in patients with susceptible groups, cancer, with multiple sclerosis and other serious illnesses with personalised care, in people subject to medically assisted reproduction with in vitro fertilisation committees and high-cost medicines, in patients dependent on the timely administration of their medication and special care, in psychiatric patients who need special care, in the patients who are being examined and treated in the paediatric hospitals, in the necessary cleanness and strict compliance with the hygiene protocol, in the maintenance and technical coverage of all health areas, in assistance for the necessary technical and technological handling of medical equipment, in the conduct and development of research work. These are issues which cannot be ignored by anyone and say that they do not exist. They don’t just have degrees, they have graduates, and some may also have doctorate. Can these people, these executives ignore them today that they serve in the ESS and offer? There's got to be care. We do not say that because these needs are substantiated, Minister. And it is clearly documented by these people and without any question and doubt their role and importance and their exploitation, how they are integrated into this system and how this system works with them. If they didn't exist, it wouldn't work. It wouldn't work, there's no way he could work. And this has been recognized by the Minister of Health in this Chamber. So the state has invested and after investing in these people, will it leave them in this uncertainty? Do you realise, Minister, what does it mean to have a full-time job, full-time coverage of the needs of the OSH and also, Minister, to have full-time insecurity? We cannot accept that. That cannot be accepted today. Oh, no! There must be a solution, and there must be a solution immediately. The government must also find this solution, recognise the struggle with the specific circumstances and circumstances and the specific conditions for the worker, because they must have a stable and permanent job. Minister, if you will answer, let the government take a position, because it is not a personal matter of the Ministry, it is a government. To take the government's place and answer for these people to have a stable and lasting job. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u150	Thank you. Please, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u151	Thank you again, Mr President. I would like to speak more generally in the first place, and then I will join in the ERC issues. The effects of the pandemic on the global economy, but also the Greek economy, were very strong. We all know that thing. However, despite the country's difficult fiscal position, the government has not since the first time hesitated to support the affected industries with measures for both businesses and households. The level of support measures last year reached EUR 24 billion, i.e. about 15% of the Gross Domestic Product. Comparative studies show that our policies were effective and the increase in unemployment in our country was much less than that recorded in almost all the countries of the European Union. In particular, with a view to preventing the spread of COVID -19 and the financial support for the affected sectors of the economy, individual measures were taken to support workers, the free professionals and the self-employed, the unemployed, the businesses which have had a reduction in income due to pandemic and obviously the National Health System and much more. A total of sixty two categories of measures totalling EUR 31.4 billion have been taken, of which 24 million, as I said before, are for 2020 and about 7.5 billion are expected to affect the financial result of 2021. From the beginning of the pandemic until the end of December last year, according to data from the competent services of the Ministry of Labour, which I am serving, a total of EUR 3.4 billion has been paid from the regular budget for payments for special purpose compensation, as well as for their insurance contributions to e-ECA. In particular, budget transfers to the ECA amounted to EUR 942.5 million during the same period. Mr Mulkiotis, as you are aware, is the need, as you say, for the strengthening of the National Health System. In conclusion, I should like to say that the government throughout the pandemic has strengthened the public health sector in many different ways. For example, in the field of human resources, I would like to mention that the government has made more than seven thousand recruitments of ancillary staff, the renewal of all fixed-term contracts and the one you mentioned before, up to 30 October 2021, published three notices of a total of four hundred and twenty-three permanent posts of medical staff and a thousand permanent nine permanent posts of other staff. It set up two thousand two hundred and fifty positions of Specialized Emergency and Intensive Nursing Public Health and Community Nursing, as well as five hundred medical posts in intensive care units and a thousand corresponding nursing posts. I think this also shows the importance that the government attaches to strengthening the National Health System, especially in the current situation, and it also covers the particular group you mentioned in your question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u152	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-01-S1-commons.u153	With the consent of the House at 17.03 p.m. the sitting is closed next Wednesday 3 February 2021 at 9 p.m., on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: a topical and urgent debate, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
