ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-06-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. Before moving on to the agenda for the legislative work, let me first inform the House of the topical and urgent debate on Wednesday, 7 July 2021. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by number 924/5-7-2021 of the Member of the State of Change Movement Mr. Georgios Kamine to the Minister of Migration and Asylum, on the subject: 'Abrogation of the Vial Reception and Identification Centre and the creation of a new structure for asylum seekers in Chios'. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Discussion and vote uniformly on the principle, articles and all the draft laws of the Ministry of Finance: 1. ‘Under the Agreement amending the Treaty establishing the European Stability Mechanism between the Kingdom of Belgium, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Republic of Estonia, Ireland, the Hellenic Republic, the Kingdom of Spain, the French Republic, the Italian Republic, the Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, the Republic of Malta, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Republic of Austria, the Portuguese Republic, the Republic of Slovenia, the Slovak Republic and the Republic of Finland’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. ‘Under the Agreement amending the Agreement on the Transfer and Mutualisation of Contributions to the Single Resolution Fund between the Kingdom of Belgium, the Republic of Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, the Kingdom of Denmark, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Republic of Estonia, Ireland, the Hellenic Republic, the Kingdom of Spain, the French Republic, the Republic of Croatia, the Italian Republic, the Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, Hungary, the Republic of Malta, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Poland, the Portuguese Republic, Romania, the Republic of Slovenia, the Slovak Republic and the Republic of Finland’. The drafts were adopted in the Standing Committee by a majority. They are imported into Parliament under the procedure laid down in Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure. That is to say, those who object as usual - as the provision says - to sanctions for these conventions for five minutes. Parliamentary representatives may speak for five minutes, if they so wish, and provided that the President of their parliamentary group does not speak. The vote on both conventions will take place at the end of the debate separately and in the order of business. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-06-S1-commons.u2	The House has agreed. In the first ratification, for the European Stability Mechanism, the New Democracy has voted in favour, SYRIZA is reservation, the Change Movement is reservation, the Communist Party is reservation, the Greek Solution has voted against and the Mera25 against. In the second ratification, for the Single Resolution Fund, the New Democracy has voted in favour, SYRIZA is reservation, the Change Movement is reservation, the Communist Party is reservation, the Greek Solution is reservation and the MERA25 has voted against. Does a colleague wish to take the floor from the objections against the bills? So we are going in the order of the parties for their reservations. I see here and Mr Velopoulos, President of the Greek Solution. If he wants to talk, he can talk. And if Mr. Varoufakis comes, he can talk too. The rapporteur for SYRIZA, Mr Vassiliou, has the floor. The debate will be unified, as we have said, for both of us, Mr Red. The Rules of Procedure say that you can speak for five minutes and there are two sanctions. We won't keep it. Just, with the tolerance of the House, it'll be a little more. And as soon as you can, be shorter, but that doesn't mean you'll be removed. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-06-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, two sanctions are to be voted on in the House which are our country's obligation to obtain the force of a formal law. I will use an expression from the Committee yesterday that these sanctions aim to shield the European credit system. But is that all it is, Minister? There are few people who will disagree - I believe - that after the pandemic the European Union must see some things from the start. There are few people who will disagree - of course, their disagreement - that Europe must return to the roots of solidarity, social justice and the fight against inequalities. In this context, ladies and gentlemen, it is crucial to refer to the national policy of the Member State - in this regard for our country, which has to do with overcharge - Greece, unfortunately, is the third country in the world to overcompensate and first to the European Union -, private debt and how this has been dealt with in our country since 2009. I would refer to some specific flagrant events that have taken place, for example, how the previous government understood and how today's private debt settlement, which is a truce to natural persons, households and small and medium-sized enterprises, was perceived. It is indicative that policies with a strong social profile have been developed in previous governance, in which the so-called'sufficient Memorandum of Understanding' — supervision — existed. In purely memorandum years, the previous government has depreciated the debt of the insured, 'driven', not only interest, depreciated capital, insurance contributions. During the previous government, the hundred and twenty instalments were voted. In previous governance, the irresponsibility was passed and the misappropriation was applied. In previous governance, the inconsistency for farmers of EUR 7,500 has been passed and implemented. I think there is no one in this Chamber who thinks that the banks would agree with such actions, with the application of the incompatibility. During previous governance in 2018, the establishment of the Development Bank began after announcements by three Ministers since 1985, a bank that was not intended and has no place in the domestic credit system, but to help those who do not have access to banking. Today, since 2019, what is the government's debt policy? It has effectively abolished the protection of first residence, and it refuses to make a favourable settlement of the debts created after the pandemic. One can say here this proposal is halving the limits of populism. No, the proposal that Alexis Tsipras submitted has a precedent, I told you before. In 2016, it was paid off and capital of the insurance contributions of the small and medium-sized enterprises to the insurance funds. A law which also supported the amendment three months ago, your amendment, which we voted on, which is about a hundred and twenty instalments to the free traders. So there is a precedent. I'm on it. What else did this government do about debt settlement? Did the "GREAT I" and "GREAT II" programme succeed? No, because it was simply a basic prerequisite for someone to join "GEOFERIA I" and "GEFERRA II" to be aware of their loans. It is a question of serving loans which are not up to date. And I come to the greatest slip in what is artificially and personally projected and sometimes successful for thirty-five instalments, for four hundred instalments, according to the extrajudicial compromise. Minister, I sincerely hope that this extrajudicial compromise will succeed, but a compromise procedure, in which the bank is not obliged to participate, to respond. The chances of positive prosperity are little. Where are the microcredits, Minister, from the Development Bank? Where is the discounting of cheques with the guarantee of the Greek State? Projects that are already approved by the Development Bank, the so-called factoring. Where is the liquidity from which the majority of small and medium-sized enterprises have been excluded? And I end up with this. It is not only about armouring, strengthening the European credit system, it is also about supporting society, supporting what was affected, not only by the crisis in the Memorandum, but also by the health crisis. This is also a big question together - we will agree - with the strengthening of the banking system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-06-S1-commons.u4	Thank you too, Mr. Red, for keeping time. I will give the floor now to the President of the Greek Solution, who will speak instead of the parliamentary representative - rather the parliamentarian would speak instead of the President - in view of the fact that he is also a leader and has a coma and he has to leave. So you will all have your comfort to speak. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-06-S1-commons.u5	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] I would like, Mr Zabwe, because people do not understand what we are voting on today, to explain what we are voting on, but simply to understand. In a Europe like us in the doctrine of De Goll, from Siberia to Lisbon, in a Europe that is true and not a German Europe, the ESS would be a European. Unfortunately, what you're going to do now with Germany is a German ESS. Why is that so? Because, as those who want to know, Germany has borrowed too much money in European countries, so it is preparing for its own IMF, the International Monetary Fund, the European, that is, the German, so that it can get the money back at some point. Here's the wrong policy, Mr. Zabbe. You borrow and you have to get rid of them sometime. You get without producing wealth and charging debt to the Greek society. This is the mistake of your Government that has continued the same tactic of all governments since 1974. I lend - I lend, I lend - I give until the story broke down on the first bankruptcy and it will break again with the next memorandum that comes. So if it were really European, then we would also be friendly. Because it is German what you are building, we are opposed to the Germanisation of Europe. Clear things. I would, however, like, because Mr Villard will analyse economics, to stay a little in the crimes that are committed day after day. Unfortunately, Minister, the New Democracy continues its successive criminal mistakes on national issues. I won't talk today, but I'm forced to talk to you to ring a bell. First crime. On the eve of the visit Nines in Ukraine the status of comic Zelenski - a comedian professional man, that is not bad - decided to delete minority Greek and Greek from Ukraine. Write the Greek minority by a law, and the next day Minister Dendias goes there. Second crime. Mr. Dendias, Mr. Zabves, is on his way there, and states Greece's permanent position in favour of Ukraine. He also examined and continued the presence of a Greek Army in the Black Sea - naval and military - in Ukraine. So we're going to make the same criminal mistake as we did with Crimea then in the past when we sent troops and paid for it later. Twice we did the crime, and we're doing it third again. What did the President of Ukraine say? Our Turkish friends - in front of Mr. Treasury! - actively support the modernisation of our Navy. Our first modern corvette has begun to be built in Turkey." In the presence of Mr. Treasury! Even the Ukrainians, who are governed by a Nazi regime, did not observe the protocol, because the Nazis govern Ukraine. Look a little bit more! And curiously, Europe against Nazis supports the Nazi government. We insist on the same mistake. Third criminal error: Kosovo - recognition. Can the Ministry of Interior think of recognising Kosovo when we have Cyprus and the Occupied? Is it possible to put the hostile Serbia in our sights, which reflexively wants to recognise the pseudo-state of Denktash? That's what we call it even now. What are you doing? What are you doing in New Democracy? You're criminal! This policy is not excellent, it is useless! It's useless, criminal and anti-national! Fourth. Yesterday the Turkish fishermen had arrived down to the Peloponnese in Mani. Dozens of Turkish fishing boats because you didn't make a fishing zone. Fifth mistake. Despite the fact that this is all happening, you continue to insist on the mistake. Erdogan: "We are in Libya, we are in Azerbaijan, we are in Syria, we are in Eastern Europe. We will take what is rightfully ours." And the government insists on talking to him. Because it goes on to say that they will do mining for hydrocarbons in the Eastern Mediterranean. What else do you want to understand that you are making criminal mistakes in national matters? Sixth mistake: Prespecies Forum. We sent Greece, a representative at the Prespes Forum and the Bulgarians did not send anyone. Why? We said the state keeps up, you said the protocols are coming and you will vote for them. Why are you doing this? Why are these crimes? Explain to us at last! You have the channels and you control them. I get it. Now the Prime Minister has decided to correct and the social media that is disturbing him, who are criticizing him. We've been talking for seven years now, haven't we? We're talking about totalitarianism! Even this bourgeoisie, and for me many times, the behavior of social media must be faded. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the President of the Greek Solution is ringing at this point.]] Because time is pushing, I'd like to be a little quick. I would therefore like to make a little clear about the position of the Greek solution to those who speak the Greek. Because the Greek language is spoken, but it is not understood by many and, unfortunately, many of them are Ministers too. The Greek Solution is not against vaccines. It's over and over! The Greek Solution is against compulsory vaccination with a doubtful quality vaccine. That's what we're saying and that's what we're saying. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] I can't keep saying the same things to the one who doesn't want to understand. We're not invaders. We're reasonable people! We are the voice of reason in Parliament! And I come to why we're sceptical. You told us about Israel in here. Many of you invoked Pfizer and Israel. Do you see the results of the vaccination with Pfizer in Israel? The vaccine yield from 95% suddenly went to 64%! They keep transmitting the coronary the vaccinated ones. How, then, can I not be vigilant, ladies and gentlemen, when Mrs Papaevangelou comes out, your own woman, the responsible scientist, and says 'we cannot rule out long-term side effects from vaccines'? But does everyone have to be vaccinated? Since your committee cannot rule out side effects! He told it at "MEGA", on your channel, on Mr Marinakis' channel. Because all the channels are yours! Just say their last name so you know. "SKAI" - Alafouzos, yours! "STAR" - Vardinoyannis, yours! ‘ALPHA’ - Vardinoyannis, yours! Marinakis yours! After all, they're all yours! Don't you dare do the worst of all, impose on the schools of vaccines! Don't you dare do that thing! You cannot ask for something unbelievable, the indirect mandatory vaccination in schools! And I'm going to say something very simple that a friend of German, doctor, and he told me. So he said to me: 'Are there still serious people in the Greek Parliament, but also in European parliaments that do not believe that healing means medicine?' Therapy means medicine! It even means medicine! Are there still people who don't think that to treat a patient you need medication? The vaccine is prevention. The medicine's a cure. The meanings of medical science, we tell you! Now you want to make us Saudi Arabia and Pakistan! The only countries with compulsory vaccination are Pakistan. You filled us with illegal immigrants from Pakistan, now you will also make us Pakistan with compulsory vaccination, indirectly, blackmail. I'm not saying Saudi Arabia, you can't do it, because mining is not what Mr. Dendias wants. He prevented these on a night alone. He won't make us oil tankers! Here, therefore, I have the document 'European Commission, European Union: 'The vaccination certificate is not a prerequisite for freedom of movement'. It's the official newspaper of the European Union. A Directive was published in the European Parliament on the basis of discrimination between vaccinated and unvaccinated persons. In paragraphs 36, 37 and 38, it is clear that any discrimination between citizens is prohibited and prevented. It should be noted that possession of a special vaccination certificate and its demonstration is not a precondition for the free movement. [[At this point, the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos submits for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Department of Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You in the New Democracy and the other parties you all agree to, how do you want to enforce this? How many were you a vaccinated certificate? I ask you, my good colleagues. And if you want to be persuasive, I would ask you, I challenge all this Parliament - I have sent a letter to the President of Parliament - Members who agree with compulsory vaccination or vaccination to publicly post their vaccination certificates, so that the citizen can also believe that those who are law-makers in favour of vaccination have themselves done the vaccine. Why don't you do it? I told the President of Parliament. He's hiding that, he's burying it, he's not saying it. All those who voted for the vaccine to get the vaccination certificates out of the Greek Parliament! I can't say I'm in favor of the vaccine, but I can't! It can't be done! Do it, so that there is transparency and credibility in the Greek political system. But I was also sad at something else. Is it possible for the Prime Minister to convoke and swear citizens? How can a Greek Prime Minister insult those who voted for him or did not vote for him? First-time Prime Minister of the country calls a large portion of the Greek people "Japadzis". A Prime Minister must be the Prime Minister of the entire Greek people. And because he's talking about "bads" the Prime Minister, we as Greek Solution will recommend concrete measures for "bads". Do you want to impose the logic against free-trades? We have three proposals for logic at last. First sentence: Those parties that have taken loans to pay them and cannot, in other words, have no right to the next elections. Which parties have taken loans and can't pay them? Not to enter the next election as parties to come. Can't you do that? There is a second proposal: The money they owe New Democracy and Change Movement from loans, etc., to be repaid by state funding and not to take euros until they are repaid. And if parliamentarians want them to give 50% of their wages too, to see how many will then be Members of parliament in the next election. That's for the "bads" in answer to the Greek Prime Minister about who's "bads," so to know who the "bads" are! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] I'll tell you one more thing. I'll tell you now what a leader, a real Prime Minister, doesn't do. He doesn't buy, he doesn't blackmail, he doesn't threaten, he doesn't swear, he doesn't terror. Here, then, the Prime Minister did everything! All of it! And it leads an entire society to the rocks. That's what's bothering us. He can't go out as Prime Minister and awkward citizens! Let us finally feel sorry for the truth in New Democracy! Since yesterday, we have had an information crescendo - misinformation. There's been an increase in cases! Oh, of course! When you run more mandatory tests, you increase cases! My aunt Evanthula knows it in the village, in the old Mylotopo Giannitson! You don't have to know as Prime Minister or Minister! And the ministers are screaming! They're screaming! And Sypsia comes out and gives you dry! Decide who decides! Does the committee or the politicians decide? "Never the committee suggested that the masks should come out," said Syssis. And you go out and say, "Get out the masks." Decide who finally decides! Also, you cannot tell the one who travels from Thessaloniki for an island "From Monday you can travel to your destination, but you will make molecular or rapid test that is reliable. When you return, do a self-test.” Are these serious things? Is the government serious? Are these things going on? So, tell me how serious this is? On the other hand, you involve the Church. He becomes a representative of the Archdiocese and says "We'll keep lists". Sydler's list! Christ and God bless you! We knew the Pecha list, and we learned the church list now, how many were vaccinated to enter the church. The priests will speak of a bomb and press for Greeks to be vaccinated! I don't understand! You're making mistakes all the time. There is no democracy with divisive announcements. Understood. You're the split party. I am convinced, trust, that social cohesion will be safeguarded to convince the citizens, if you are right, that you will convince them to go to the vaccine without splitting. They are the basic features of a democracy, a democracy that the Greek Solution empowers, believes, preserves daily and says "optionally whoever wants to do the vaccine". [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Another mistake, I will say directly: it is really on the edge of fascism to threaten and blackmail citizens that they will lose their jobs, that they will not be hired. It's really fascism to blackmail him every day. It's on the edge of a Nazi visa to separate racist groups of people, those with the star here, the invasive ones and the others who are vaccinated. Put this on, not on us, because we have repetitive democracy in our own party. Whoever wants to make the vaccine. We don't oblige anyone. We're not pushing anyone. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] There are also the threats of the press with terrorisation "we will shut you down again and we will not pay you". Benefits have nothing to do with pandemic really. While the battle with the coronary is miraculous, while we have thousands of dead, at the same time they come out ministers and threaten citizens that they will not receive their benefits if they are not vaccinated. The Prime Minister himself announces a reduction in health expenditure from 7% to 5% while pandemic exists. What a logic it is that neither doctors nor recruits were given, nor nurses were taken, and at the same time we threaten citizens! In Greece, the Prime Minister said that the citizens cannot have three good hospitals 30 km away. Casinos are allowed, though. Casinos may be available every twenty or every fifteen kilometers. Well, that's not reasonable, really! [[At this point the closing bell of the speaking time of the President of the Greek Solution is ringing again and again.]] Some, therefore, in the New Democracy - and fortunately, not heretic and elected, but appointed by the Prime Minister - behave miserably, behave inhumane. We'll put, Minister, in lockdown the invaders, and we won't give them the benefits they deserve. Appointed politicians by the Prime Minister who forget what humanity will say. Wrong benefits? You don't mean to give? Really? Then cut the benefits to illegal immigrants. Don't give any benefits there either! Why only the Greeks? [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] So since we are going to propose to you - you are thinking of not giving allowances to the invaders, so now we tell you to make a list, which you are preparing, where you will return all the insurance contributions to the person who does not want to be vaccinated, all the thousands of euros that he paid and you do not want to take him to hospital. Secondly, exempt him from any tax, because we are paying a tax to enable us to go to hospitals, any citizen. And I hear the genius that, since you refuse to do the vaccine, you don't go to the hospital. I can hear it. Stupid! Then he who does not wear a helmet because he does not obey the law, or does not wear a safety belt, if he is in a car accident, not to go to the hospital. Is that possible? Such racism, this kind of inhumane behavior by ministers? Here are your people, Mrs Bakoyannis, the Prime Minister's sister, George Papandreou, the well-known PASOK, Mr Katrugalos, Kasimatis, who signed a resolution in the European Parliament against the certificate and compulsory vaccination. They signed it. The text is available. These people are the same people who insist on forced vaccination. There are others voting, and here they want to impose others. I wonder what it's called the one who blames the other as a racist when he discriminates against privileges, who says that whoever is vaccinated will get 150 euros and extracts consciences.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-06-S1-commons.u6	Mr President, if you want to finish this.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-06-S1-commons.u7	I'm closing, Mr. President. I'll tell you something simple, though. Only the vaccinated will go to the cafe without paying rapid? Only the vaccinated ones can dance at the stores? Are the invaders gonna just get bored? Is that how you want society? Is that how you want her? But I will say something about those who hate the rest, who do not want - and their choice - to be vaccinated. Those of you who rejoice in these authoritarian, illegal, unconstitutional, anti-democratic measures imposed by the government on the moral combination of the rest of the parties, if that government wins, will turn in with much tougher measures. Why? Because they're also obedient. Because they obey what the party tells them and not reason, they will come to the point in the next few months that other, worse measures will be imposed and they will have to obey them. I close with this: Magazia, two spaces, they say. On the train? The buses? Society doesn't hear you. In Katerini, since this morning, he has been erecting insurgent. They started under Olympus making the shops rebellious. All the stores will be open without two spaces, says shopkeepers, because the law ends them, dies them, disappears them. They'll resist. But I'll tell you something you forget. Many do not want to be vaccinated because of allergies due to health problems. And they need to be marginalized? I'll close with the economy, which for us is very important. According to Mr Zabwe, only fifteen to twenty-five thousand large businesses have access to bank finance with the figures of the Bank of Greece. How will the economy move like this? The guarantee programs, the EIFs, the Greek Development Plans fall into void due to bureaucracy. It's said by the Bank of Greece, your man, Mr Stournaras. At the same time, 28.9% of the population are on the verge of poverty in 2019, not now in 2021. Debt increases geometrically. The total tax debt in April is 109 billion, 62% of GDP, increased by 3.4 billion, compared with April 2020. The tax revenue foregone from the smuggling of beverage is EUR 6 billion. The euro. Even drinks can't pick up the bombs, six billion. It's time. Do this, take the money and give it to some Greek who are hungry. I would also like to close by saying that tourism is falling apart. Mr. Pylacakis is picking up. It's honest. Where he said he was gonna succeed, he started picking it up. That's something. However, because the President is pressing and I will tell you that the Bank of Greece, Mr Zavves, is counting on the pandemic's red loans at EUR 15 billion. The unemployment of our country in the young children is 38.2%, in France 19%, in Belgium 19%, in the Netherlands 8%, in the Czech Republic 7%, in Malta 7%. We have 38.2%. They are the children who will be forced to leave in the coming years from the criminal economic policies of the three parties of power. Six hundred thousand young people have left and other young people will leave our children, our grandchildren, our nephews will leave home. But you have another hawa and another poor thing, how Hassan will come from Pakistan to blush us and enrich us with new potential, he says. They leave the Greeks and they leave their hawaii, their poorness, how others will come.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-06-S1-commons.u8	Mr President, you have spoken four times a year.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-06-S1-commons.u9	Just one proof, Mr President, because it is a complaint from shops. State of New Democracy: New Democracy has imposed a law on smoking. That is right or wrong, let us not look at it now. If the shop has no label plastic that says smoking is banned, a fine is imposed. They went out to the Municipality of Thessaloniki and imposed a 1,000 euros fine on each shop, Mr. Brutsi, because there is no sign. To understand what state you're doing. The Ministry of Development, along with the Municipality of Thessaloniki, came out pagan and imposed a fine of EUR 1,000, because there was no sign that smoking is forbidden. Is that a state? Is that a state? They've got a problem with shops, and you're putting a 1,000 euros fine on them, where to live? Where to really live? And stop denounced, ministers appointed, the Greek people for benefits, blame the citizens, when the Minister himself, colleagues of the New Democracy, the appointed, has worked in the office of Stournara, in the office of Pikramenos, in BSE, only there. Business I can't see anywhere. Just there. He blames citizens for benefits! I'll tell you what a state you've finally made, and I'm staying here. The state of Biden is costing $50 million, payroll in America. The final state of New Democracy costs 40 million dollars, the budget of your state of staff. We became a superpower like America, and we don't know it. You are the ones, make your own children comfortable, because you hate the rest of the Greeks. Understand, all children are children of Greece, children of Greeks, children of ours. Hold them, don't hate them, don't push them abroad. A cold of agony now, because it doesn't go anymore. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-06-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Constantopoulos now has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-06-S1-commons.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, today we are debating two sanctions for the Single Resolution Fund and the European Stability Mechanism, the ESM. As we all know, ladies and gentlemen, the Single Resolution Fund was established in 2014 at European Union level for the resolution of problem banks. It has been chosen as a solution to the problems created by the big crisis of 2008, a crisis that has increased the public and private debt in the Eurozone, revealing the flaws in the European structure. One of the imperfections was the absence of a Banking Union for the economic governance of the European Union. In this context, the European Stability Mechanism was established to ensure financial stability, the euro area, the euro and the European Union as well. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2010 Europe considered Greece to be the problem. However, the problem, ladies and gentlemen, we all know that it was not our country, but the imperfect structures of the Eurozone and especially of the European Union. And that's where the second mistake was made. They focused more on austerity than on reforms. However, through the sacrifices of the Greek citizens and the painful Greek experience of the crisis, Europe managed to take cowardice steps forward. The PASOK, to remind you, the government of George Papandreou then fought a great battle to create a great effort that resulted in the permanent support mechanism. We have fought - I would say - at the summit meetings to ensure financial stability in order to make funding available to our country and, of course, to the euro area as a whole. That is why I believe that the European Stability Mechanism, as well as the Single Resolution Fund, is a reserve of the then PASOK in the European structure. I mention this because we must remember and go back to the past to get better in the future and in the present. I cannot forget that the government of Giorgos Papandreou after the catastrophic disaster - I would say - seven years of New Democracy 2004-2009 was the one that was called upon to remove chestnuts from the fire. I cannot forget the embarrassment created by the ministers, the MPs and the entire democratic party, when PASOK was called upon to save the country from bankruptcy. So I cannot forget the years of the demagogy that followed with the New Democracy, with the three Zapeias and the 18 billion euro equivalents, but also the first time left government of Alexis Tsipras and the anti-immemorandum courage and the government that actually tried to establish in the Constitution with anti-immemorandum talks, so that we can end up both party and the other on the path of the next day that the government of Giorgos Papandreou drew up in order to save the country and stand up. And the Memorandum of SYRIZA was forgotten and, of course, an article would delete the debt and the Memorandum by a law. So everyone came down the road that we carved. That is what I am talking about in terms of history. With this history in mind, therefore, the creation of the Single Resolution Fund is a great step forward for us in European history. A fund financed entirely by the euro area banking sector and ensuring that funds are raised, equal to at least 1% of the guaranteed deposits in the euro area. In the committee we raised our concerns, we stressed how important it was to have a genuine banking union, because despite the steps taken, we see that there are still different speeds. Mr Zavvos agreed that there are indeed significant differences in the loan rates between Greece and the other Eurozone countries and he said that they would retreat with the speeding up of the integration of the banking union. Here, Minister, is a key question: will we all expect the European partners to solve it? You, Minister, are the Greek Financial Stability Fund as a major shareholder of systemic banks, which directions it gives? It is a question and we would like an answer, because the gap in financing costs also causes a gap in competitiveness between businesses and countries. It is not possible that Greeks have repeatedly paid the recapitalisation of banks, with the last example of the losses from the recapitalisation of Piraeus Bank, not to "open the nose" and be regarded as normal. It is not possible for Greece to borrow only large companies to the detriment of small and medium-sized enterprises in an environment where businesses and households are in debt. Mr President, you have spoken about the fight against red loans and the successful course, as you said, of the HERAKLIS project. Our disagreement is well known. The HERAKLIS project has proved ineffective and we have reported it to you on several occasions. We have told you personally from this point of view that the borrowers of foreign funds may take the lead in the acquisition of their loans and under the same conditions. You didn't accept it. I would even say that Cyprus showed us the way and we did not follow it. At the same time, there is no and I see no government plan for the new generation of red loans that both the European Central Bank and the Bank of Greece have predicted will exist because of the pandemic and that it should be promoted. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2010 in the years of the major crisis the creation of the European Financial Stability Mechanism was really a goal that was achieved. The objective was, of course, to preserve the stability of the euro area by providing financial assistance in the form of loans to the euro area Member States. Today, ten years later, things are completely different. Despite the pandemic and the problems posed by the crisis, we believe that inefficiency continues. However, the conditions have matured and the ESM can shape another landscape, and that, Minister, I believe that is an opportunity that we should not lose as a European community. However, I should like to remind you that the Change-PASOK Movement has repeatedly highlighted how the 2015 loan contract was amended on a government-led SYRIZA in order to become a contracting party, when the public property was pledged for ninety-nine years to cover the public debt. Here, then, we see the heavy legacy of the SYRIZA - ANEL government's memorials, with the long-term commitments made by our country at the time, without any popular legitimacy for this. As they all confess, there is no more extreme austerity than the excessive surpluses of 3.5% and surpluses that come out by removing natural resources and incomes from the real economy. Here too, Minister, it is worth wondering why your Government, the Government of New Democracy, has not negotiated until now either the irrational primary surplus or, of course, the lifting of the protection of first residence after the abolition of the PASOK law. Also, Minister, the Government did not proceed with the immediate and universal cancellation of the transfer of the total of ten thousand ten thousand nineteen real estate, although 90% of these real estate is non-transferable. Nor have you made the annulment decision of the Council of State. On the contrary, you have chosen to go to the stricter administrative control of the surplus, when you grant it all the major projects of the Recovery Fund and the ESRB. So, Minister, there is therefore no room for celebration, at least until these devaluations are lifted, I would say, for our country. In conclusion, we are voting in favour of both sanctions. We are, of course, awaiting solutions for the banking system and proposals that will highlight the problems and provide solutions for growth. Because development I believe that is a common objective and that should be our first concern. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-06-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, too. The President of the Parliamentary Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has the floor. Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-06-S1-commons.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today the House will make a big mistake. It will address a major issue as a mere ratification of a European agreement. This agreement is presented as an important step towards the European Union's economic integration, and that is why it is going through as something that we do not need to discuss very much, and that is why the debate is taking place in these specific circumstances and, in fact, neither do fellow Members pay any attention to it. Unfortunately, we are not talking about economic integration of the European Union with this agreement. This agreement leads more to the incorporation of a complete European Union regime, bankers and Brussels bureaucracies. That is precisely the opposite of what we need in the European Union. Our criticism is that of Europeans who see the creation of a totalitarian regime which is the greatest enemy of Europe and of course of the peoples of Europe. But I'll be specific. Let us take the way in which it was presented by the President of Eurogroup, Mr Pascal Donahue, on 30 November when this agreement was reached. Mr Donahue said that this is where we turn ESM from a fund that basically provided memoranda of loans to a fund that supports the effort to restructure the banks, we put the bankers in a little bit of billions if one of the many systemic banks in Europe starts to collapse and if this money is not enough, the ESM will premium him with 68 billion European taxpayers. Isn't that right, Minister? Let's be clear, though. Even these 68 billion doesn't get enough in case you have a banking crisis. Let me remind you that only the Spanish banks needed 100 during the crisis. What do I mean by that? The money to which the bankers will participate is insignificant, it is a pretext to say that the bankers contribute to their self-rescue. There's no such thing. It seems, of course, to be understood by the Eurogroup and Brussels leaders, because they themselves have put in something that I imagine and I fear you haven't noticed most of you. It's not just 68 billion. There is also a prediction that, with a simple vote, within the ESM Board of Directors, this sum of 68 billion may be increased without a limit. It is the reason to remind you if you do not know it, which last week the German Constitutional Court of Karlsruhe demanded that the German President, Mr Steinmeier, should not sign the ratification that you will vote on today. Look into it if you don't believe me or if you haven't heard. But what's the point? The substance is the following. The banks are going bankrupt, not enough the bankers' money, they are coming from European taxpayers to lend them first through the ESM up to 68 billion and, secondly, I don't know how much, why we don't say. That's not in the contract. Question: This money, even if it is taken by the "h" bank of Greece or France, will it count on the national debt of the country in which this bank has been naturalised? Don't answer me, because you don't know, because there's no contract. This, ladies and gentlemen, is unacceptable. We must return this convention as unacceptable. He doesn't tell you if these will eventually be recorded in the public debt. One of the prisoners. Second prisoner: What are the conditions regarding private debt? Societe GENERALE is falling apart - beating wood, they say - or another bank. What about the red loans? Of course, in order for there to be such a banking crisis - you understand that, Minister - it means that the'red' loans are also caught. Who will impose on the governments the way in which they will manage the protection of first home, for example, to remember something that has now become a joke, as you have done with HARAKEL, with the bankruptcy officer? The answer is that there is no answer. So you are asking us to ratify an agreement which will have a huge impact, both on public and on private debt, both on states and on societies, without telling us what we are approving. You are giving the bogeyman of European legitimacy to something that is unfair and which in no case is determined by the convention you are asking us to ratify. Merra25 will vote with all its soul against this fictitious convention. I'm moving on to an even worse chapter. Inside the contract there is provision for a greater and more flexible role for the ESM in the adaptation programmes. What, of course, is that? Memorandum. This is the adjustment program. It's a Greek, Portuguese, Cypriot. That's it. Look what you're doing, Minister. We are at a time when you are glad that Greek bonds are bought by the European Central Bank, but you know very well that at the end of the year this is over. You know that for at least 2022 the European Central Bank and Mrs Lagard would like to wake up every morning in the wish to buy Greek bonds, and her own regulations would not allow her to do so. In other words, during the period when interest rates will start to pinch for other reasons, see the re-inflation of the American economy, which is now being discussed and given, Greek bonds will not have the support of the central bank. It's quite possible especially if we have a fourth wave that you're going to have to go to the ESS. And what are you talking about here? In Zula, from the back door, you give him the bogeyman of European legality to impose a memorandum on you. That's what you're doing. Adjustment programme. You are like turkeys who enthusiastically vote for the coming of Christmas. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not need to say any more to explain why Mera25 with all our souls will be voting against. I would, however, like to close with a more general framework on the completion of economic and policy which you are saying brings such a convention and to tell you why. It is exactly the opposite of what is actually happening. Look. There is here a myth, the myth of the separation of budgets from monetary matters, from banking. The European Union is presenting it and you are just coming here as a contributor that this is something that is about the banking system, it is not about the financial system, it is monitoring, it is banking, it is not fiscal. I have just explained to you why this is not the case. Because when, with one vote of 68 billion, you go to 200 billion, it is budgetary, especially when it does not specify what will happen to both the public and the private debt. Look at what we have done as the European Union. We've built a series of castles. You built the ESM, and now in this castle you build even higher walls, you put more wide and deeper moat. You build this castle, this castle is a zone in which democracy doesn't dare enter. Anyone who knows how the SSM works knows that. It's not that there's a democracy deficit in the ESM, it's like you're saying there's a oxygen deficit on the moon. There's no oxygen deficit on the moon, there's just no oxygen on the moon. Same goes for the ESS. So you made this castle. The ESM issues bonds, sells bonds, borrows the European taxpayer without any idea how this is done, how much it is borrowed, who is borrowed, who is paid out of this money or who controls who is borrowed and how much it is borrowed. It is a castle in which democracy does not exist, not even one molecule. You and the government, because you participated in this, the Recovery Fund, which is based on other European Union bonds this time. There is the system of quantitative relaxation in which the European Central Bank has essentially collected and created a huge trillion bonds fund. All of this is interconnected with fiscal policy through the austerity systems applied in exchange for these castles. In other words, what is going on all these years of the crisis starting with Angela Merkel's 'no' to the idea of real Eurobonds and real political and fiscal union is that we are moving forward - step by step - and too fast to take these steps - ever further away from the chance of democratisation of what is called the European Union. Slowly, under the cover - supposedly - of integration, let's go to the totalitarian regime. I am also going to make a self-criticism here, because as a Europeanist I thought to some extent that it was possible for this thing to be democratised. I am watching today the way this totalitarianism is doing it, without even knowing what you are voting on. Our parliaments that approve this convention today or at this time are self-inflicted without knowing it, passing conventions that send them Euro-signatories, who face our parliaments - and the European Parliament, but in particular our national parliaments - with great contempt. We in Mera25 will not be involved in this purely anti-European disdainful process, which harms Europe and harms the peoples of Europe and, of course, harms the Greek people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-06-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party of Greece Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-06-S1-commons.u15	Thank you very much, Mr President. The unification of the European Union, whether incomplete or incomplete, is always reactive, because the European Union itself is reactive. In other words, it is a regional union, an imperialist, capitalist states and by its role and its character it is reactive. In this respect, therefore, the deeper this European unification is the worse for the people of Europe, even if monetary and fiscal integration exists. This whole package of unification will be followed by the pan-European memos at the expense of the rights of workers, workers, insurance and trade unions at the expense of the living standards of the people. That is why the European Union has not changed. Those who claim that the European Union must return to its roots, what are these roots of the European Union? As an anti-communist mechanism, wasn't it set up? The rival awe to the socialist system, wasn't it? Did he not want to ensure the interests of the multinationals of the European Union and the attack on the workers and the peoples of Europe? Has the European Union not done imperialist wars? Wasn't he involved in Yugoslavia's division? So what's her character? Its nature is to ensure the interests of the European Union's multinationals in their tough, sharp competition with other imperialist centres, be they American multinationals or Chinese now. In this respect, therefore, the effort being made is characteristic. We are clearly saying that, as far as unification processes are concerned, the people will have to face much more serious and much more important problems with the European Union, because the real enemy of the peoples, which are the politicians of the European Union, is founded. In this respect, therefore, what is now coming with the Recovery Fund as a prerequisite is nothing but best practice. The anti-government bill that we have seen on the adjustment of working time and essentially the smash of the trade union movement and the new insurance law on a capitalising insurance system in subsidiary insurance precisely describe the best European practices that all the other parties support, that is, the pan-European memoirs. In this respect, then, the two bills we are now debating are a step towards banking integration, a banking unification which, as the Deputy Minister himself admitted, is an incomplete banking integration. What's he shaping? It forms the Single Money Reinsurance Fund to which banks themselves contribute at a rate and at the same time can be borrowed by the European Stability Mechanism. To be able to ensure what? Financial stability. Our question is who will pay for the stability of the financial system? They will pay it out of the experience - the taxpayers - because the state debt will be increased, as was the case with the recapitalisation of the banks and the EUR 45 billion with which the financial stability fund was financed by the Greek banks and which have been dismantled, but have not been redeemed as a state debt which has, on the contrary, increased it. Thus, financial stability is nothing but the safeguarding of multinationals either the banking groups or other monopolist groups. And this safeguard of stability will be paid by the people. And we say it is a 'knock' for this banking consolidation precisely because it does not guarantee deposits at a pan-European level. The Deposit Guarantee Fund simply does not exist. And here come the rest of the parties, who disagree and photograph the easy evil. Germany, he says, is the bad guy, because Germany does not accept, as a last creditor, both the European Union's total state debts - all state debts - and private debts. It's like asking our neighbor to pay back our own loan. From this point of view, then, Germany's attitude to this process is normal, because it does not want and is not going to take over the whole process, and much more so that the Greek state can not guarantee the deposits of Greek citizens in the Greek banking system, precisely because the funds are too small, too few. So, even at European level, of course, bank deposits cannot be guaranteed. From this point of view, therefore, we are clearly saying that this whole process of stabilising the financial system in our country in previous years literally depleted the Greek people with the recapitalisation, with the deferred tax, with the "GEOFHYRA" programmes, which in fact the taxpayer subsidises the banks, with the "HRAKLIS" programmes for managing and reducing the "red" loans with state guarantees which, in the event of the collapse of these state guarantees, will increase the state debt. And, of course, in the last decade in the financial system in our country we have also reduced by 50% the branches of banks and by 45% of the employees. It is therefore precisely the anti-French and anti-Flemish nature of the choices of governments and today and the previous one. And while the red loans at the hands of the banks may have fallen, because they have been transferred to the sernior, the whole of the red loans has not been reduced by the Greek economy, on the contrary, we also have to wait for new red loans as a result of the new capitalist crisis of this time that we are experiencing now. Of course, the management of these red loans does not lead to a reduction in private debt. On the contrary, private debt is increasing. Here, too, we see double standards. The current government, as well as all previous ones, is trying to reduce, cut or even completely eliminate the red loans of business groups. We had called for a long time ago for the Banking Union to provide us with all these business loans, which have been cut off in previous years by all governments, shipowners, large-scale investors, large-scale industrialists and small-scale owners. Of course, it has not given the public all these loans which have been "curred" because only such loans have been "driven". On the other hand, the loans to which bio-palers, self-employed people, professionals, farmers, people's housing loans, the treatment that has been provided by all governments is, precisely, the acceleration of auctioning and the non-protection of first home. That is what all previous governments - and today - did with the new bankruptcy code. So we say it clearly that these loans are precisely the ones that must be cut off and there must be a brave 'cut' of the loans themselves. Because it will have to be the situation that the financial system is facing itself, that the major shareholders of the banks themselves should pay, and not, of course, that the Greek people should pay, whether as taxpayers or as highly indebted people. For this very reason, Mr President, the JRC is voting against both the agreements amending the European Stability Mechanism and the changes made to the Single Resolution Fund for the European Union's financial system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-06-S1-commons.u16	Thank you too, Mr. Karathanasopou. The Minister for Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-06-S1-commons.u17	Mr President, thank you very much. I thank both my dear colleagues, special speakers of the Greek Solution and of Mera25, who allow me to place myself before them because of unsettled obligations. Mr. Zavvos, he'll be here anyway to give clarification if they need to. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today the draft law on the ratification of international agreements, amending the Treaty of the European Stability Mechanism and the agreement on the transfer and sharing of contributions to the Single Resolution Fund. These are technical agreements but extremely important, for which we have spent a lot of time, many meetings at Eurogroups last year in order to find a solution. These are agreements that were finalised, then as I told you of the consultations and negotiations in which Greece was actively involved. We ended in November 2020 where it was decided to operate the common security mechanism from 2022, i.e. two years earlier in relation to the initial timetable. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the first agreement, this amendment to the Treaty on European Stability Mechanism, the most important change relates to the provision for the first time of the common security mechanism, the common backstop, the Single Resolution Fund by the European Stability Mechanism. The fund is financed through the contributions paid by the credit institutions of the Member States and is designed to reach the 1% target of the covered deposits in the banking union by the end of 2023. The funds of the fund are used to finance the resolution of credit institutions and will be fully remunerated after the end of the transitional period, i.e. from 2024 onwards. The common security mechanism is essentially a credit line to be provided by the European Stability Mechanism to the fund, in cases where the latter's resources are exhausted or insufficient to meet the financing needs of the credit institutions that are put into consolidation. Its amount will be equal to the amount of the Single Resolution Fund approximately EUR 60 billion with a ceiling of EUR 68 billion. This reform adds a critical safety net to the Single Resolution Mechanism, significantly increasing the potential resources to which the Single Resolution Fund will have access, if necessary. Its implementation will make a significant contribution to strengthening the stability of the financial system. In addition, the Treaty under discussion introduces changes in the functioning of the financial instruments of the European Stability Mechanism, particularly in relation to the conditional prudential credit limit, the PCCL, which will no longer accompany the Memorandum of Understanding. It is further laid down in the amendment that access to the credit limit is not interrupted even in the event of failure to comply with the eligibility criteria for financial assistance, provided that the Board of Directors decides on the mutual agreement and by mutual agreement to maintain the credit limit. In addition to this, the changes introduced by the amendment also include the use of one-voting collective action clauses in sovereign debt instruments to be issued by members of the European Stability Mechanism, which makes it easier and more effective to restructure any future government debt. In conclusion, with this agreement: Firstly, the European credit system is even more shielded. Secondly, the possibility of dealing effectively with future credit crises is increasing. Thirdly, the role of the European Stability Mechanism is strengthened and the functioning of its financial instruments is made more effective in order to ensure economic and financial stability in the euro area. Fourthly, the role of the European Stability Mechanism is expanded with regard to monitoring the macroeconomic and financial situation in its members, while ensuring the relevant competences of the European Commission. Finally, fifthly, the role of the European Stability Mechanism is strengthened and in the context of financial assistance to the Member States, as well as in relation to the preparation of the debt sustainability analysis of the Member States applying for assistance. Ladies and gentlemen, the second text is an amendment to the Agreement on the Transfer and Mutualisation of Contributions to the Single Resolution Fund. The initial agreement provided that only the advance contributions, i.e. the contributions paid by credit institutions on an annual basis with a view to the establishment of the Single Resolution Fund and the gradual increase in its resources, would gradually be re-equipped during the transitional period, i.e. 2016-2023, while the collection of ex post contributions, i.e. those paid by credit institutions, in order to repay the resources of the Single Resolution Fund, after their use in a resolution would only be possible in the financial sector of the Member State concerned, in whose territory the credit institution under resolution was established. The amended agreement now provides for the mutualisation of their ex-post contributions and their pumping by other credit institutions, in addition to those operating in the same country as the institution, which is in reorganisation. Therefore, in the case of the use of the Single Resolution Fund in the years 2022-2023, only part of the resources that will be required and not all will be replaced by contributions from credit institutions operating in the same Member State with the credit institution that was put into consolidation. On this basis, although the common security mechanism would be in principle accessible to everyone, its use would be limited by the possibility of the credit, the banking sector of each Member State to grant ex post contributions, with the result that many Member States only have access to a small part of the total resources available. Therefore, undeniably the amendments introduced through the new agreement ensure the efficient functioning of the common mechanism from 2022 onwards, which was not guaranteed by the original agreement, which contained provisions which would make it difficult for the mechanism to function fully before 2024. Finally, the amendment becomes necessary in order to allow for the full implementation of the agreement that I have described previously, which involves the activation of the common security mechanism for the Single Resolution Fund from 2022 instead of the 2024 set by the original mechanism. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, Greece has always supported and continued to support further deepening economic and monetary union. We believe that its completion is necessary in order to make the most of the benefits that are generated for all the Member States from their participation in it. In this context, we welcome all the relevant initiatives, which have been taken in previous years and, at the same time, we are actively and constructively taking part in discussions on the new European economic architecture, with a view to achieving further progress. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-06-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Minister. The reason is now the special speaker of the Greek Solution Mr. Vassiliardos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-06-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, in the one and only committee that has been set up for each convention, we have expressed our strong protest about the unacceptable procedure followed by Article 108 and the two agreements, which are extremely important for the future of the European Union and for our own within it, so the discussions should be as detailed as possible and should also be given answers. We would like to stress here, but for reasons not to mention, that the Greek Solution is not a Dedicated Opposition to bear all the weight of the substantiated government criticism that is necessary in every favoured state, but a party of 5%. Over 8%, of course, in the most sensitive northern Greece, which has been hit to a greater extent economic and national. In addition, it is excluded from all the media, it is thrown from everywhere, while its president breaks down, in terms of his profession, deliberately and badly, of course, from those who prefer unpaid politicians, of course from people who don't understand that someone uncorrupt and honest, only a worker can fund a party, while not everyone has the chance to have a father who can pay for his son's studies, to provide him with a good job in a bank, as well as a leading political career in his party. Unless, of course, it is charged, such as the New Democracy, with the almost 350 million that it has to pay, at least one repayment plan for them even in a long time. Or the PASOK, which just changed name and VDU, while SYRIZA all know that he's had his debts cut long ago. By the way, and in relation to the immigration, which the JRC accuses us of, what exactly is his position? She's gone, unfortunately. Does it not see how even Switzerland stopped discussions with the European Union, because it does not want to increase migration from European countries, so as not to force its workers' wages? Is it not in favour of workers or does it not understand the pressure that their wages in Greece are under the pressure of even worse illegal immigration, at the same time as the reduction of jobs in a country that is submerged in recession and unemployment? In particular, as regards the agreement on the European Stability Mechanism, for the future German IMF, that is to say - we better call it by its right name - I do not want to mention the technical details, since there is no need to repeat what we have said in committee. The most important change, however, introduced through this agreement, is the creation of a common security mechanism for the Single EIF, where it can provide loans of up to 68 billion to the Banks Guarantee Fund to finance the resolution or the liquidation of banks, increasing its capacity. Apart from the fact that, now, we are in favour of the rescue of societies and not of the banks, we have noted that there have been tens of billions of banks in Greece, increasing our public debt, but none has yet been rescued. In Article 1, the integrated financial surveillance framework is added, which the Contracting Parties must strictly observe, where each one has to comply with the rules of the European Union, even with regard to the practice of tax collection or government expenditure. In essence, therefore, the methods of enhanced supervision, the fourth memorandum, which already applies to Greece, are adopted in the well-known stupid laboratory. Point 13 establishes the independence of the CEO and the staff of the ESM. This is our well-known impunity, as we have seen in insurance, health, banks, TIADED, with the extortion of the dose by the Spanish Minister, etc. It's not a shame, really? As far as the conditions for lending are concerned, such as sustainable debt as a total of less than 60% and a deficit of 3% are concerned, it is certainly foolish, since no country in need of loans can fulfil these conditions. Finally, we said that we were voting against the convention before all because it officialises the status of memoranda that Greece does not want to live again, and its constitutionality should be investigated. In relation to the second agreement, we have now mentioned that the Single Resolution Fund was set up to be used to restructure the problem banks, but after the other options, such as their rescue by own means, have been exhausted, the so-called 'bail in'. It is financed by contributions from the banks to reach at least 1% of the amount of the covered deposits of all credit institutions authorised in all Member States, an amount which is currently around 52 billion with the originally planned capacity of 55 billion, while in its communication, in 2020, it will reach 71 billion. A prerequisite for access to the fund is the application of the rules and principles of bailout by the same means as set out in the Bank Recovery and Restructuring Directive, as well as in the Single Resolution Mechanism Regulation where the contract concerned was signed by the twenty-six Member States of the European Union, with the exception of Sweden and the United Kingdom. Why, really, did Sweden not sign? We didn't get any answers. The substance of the amendments to this Convention lies in the fact that, while the original provided for the gradual mutualisation of contributions to the Single Resolution Fund in advance only ex ante, ex ante, of the contributions to the Single Resolution Fund during the transitional period, they also provided for the retrocession of the ex post contributions. Contributions continue to be paid to our country by all banks operating within it, be they the four large systems of the CFS of foreign or third countries. For systemic contributions, they are actually burdening their profitability. If this does not exist, it should be supported with high commissions, with HRAKLIS package sales guaranteed by the public and ultimately by their recapitalisation, recently by the subsidiary of the Superior Treasury of foreigners from the CFS where it is not the public, but the debt of the CFS is borne by it. We asked whether the EIF could be of assistance, after the funds of the CFSF have been exhausted, whether their reassurance should be preceded, how, and how, as well as how, it could support them preventively or only after their reassurance, without getting any answers. We also asked about the table showing that there are four resolution programmes for Greek banks and additional resolution plans for less important institutions - that is exactly what it says - as for eleven in Greece and what it is. We didn't get an answer here either. We stressed that the EFSF's sums, 52 billion of its own at the moment, plus 68 billion ESM, seem insufficient for the total sizes of the euro area and its banks, noting that the total assets of the European Union-based banks were EUR 29.7 trillion in September 2020, while only Deutsche Bank's assets exceed EUR 1.3 trillion. These 29.7 trillions prove that the banking sector is more generally a rough bomb on the foundations of Europe, since their assets are almost twice as much as that of the United States, all without including off-balance-sheet derivatives, which we all know are hundreds of trillions. In conclusion, we reserved the vote in plenary according to the answers that were to be given to us. But since no one has been given us, we have to vote against the second agreement, just like the first one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-06-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, too, Mr. Villardo. The special speaker of Mera25, George Logiadis, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-06-S1-commons.u21	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we, Mera25, stressing the Front of European Realistic Disobedience - are the only pan-European front, a party, as founders of Diem25, a Democracy in Europe Movement. We are the only true and well-known Europeans. What can I add now after the speech of our President, Yiannis Varoufakis, who is the most competent and most acquainted? So today, as far as the Single Resolution Fund referred to in the banking union is concerned, as the Minister has rightly said in committee, the European Banking Union is based on three pillars. The third pillar, as he said, is unfortunately not yet complete. It is the so-called European Deposit Insurance Fund. What can a simple man think when you tell him that a structure has three pillars, three columns, one of which does not actually exist, does it not work? This structure will collapse. It is decentralised, it will collapse and it will beat the citizens, the citizens of Europe. What fund and what single resolution fund are we talking about? What recovery do we want to talk about, when other key issues such as providing adequate liquidity, high interest rates and loan conditions of the Greek banks have not yet been solved? The banks here object and difficulties towards financing and show that there is insufficient demand for loans from viable companies. Banks borrow at negative interest rates from the European Central Bank and instead of supporting the economy, invest this money in bonds of the Greek State with a guaranteed profit from the European Central Bank, which guarantees these bonds. So why risk and lend businesses? For us, Mera25, without debt restructuring, private and public, without the division of the new pandemic debt across the European Union and not in each Member State separately, without a true European unification policy and without a Eurobond, any policy is doomed right from the outset. In 2010, Greece was used as an animal by Brussels, Berlin, Frankfurt, Paris, precisely to set up a mechanism that would break out of bankrupt Franco-German banks, without showing that the European Union rescues them and on the other hand that a mechanism would subscribe European countries with the debt. Our country in 2010 received the largest loan in the history of humanity, EUR 110 billion, with which it paid the French and German banks with their rescue being baptized by Brussels, Berlin and Paris as solidarity with the Greeks. Of course, this huge budgetary debt, which is supposed to have been settled, is constantly growing. As early as 2010, Yiannis Varoufakis called for the creation of a central mechanism for the absorption of vibrations in the financial system, which would not charge every country with a difficult new debt by sinking economies like ours into the back of underdevelopment. At first reading, it seems positive, but it is not. It's completely negative. The reason why the Eurogroup has proceeded with these agreements is not to protect the economies of the Member States from the new banking crisis, but to ensure the profits of the predators, the funds, which trade in the red loans of European citizens. As far as the European Stability Mechanism is concerned, when we are not asking and pressured for political consolidation and debt-sharing, even now in the middle of a global pandemic, where the maximum human good, health, is affected, then we are worthy of our luck. As long as there is no political unification, all this will lead us to damage, degradation and depreciation of the European Union. These are all pretexts, humiliation and disorientation, so that the European Union will never become a true political unification. The Memorandum Governments have committed us to the obligation to pay the unfavourable annual capital tax. And don't fool us with the temporary "freeze" of commitments because of pandemic. The bill won't be long enough to come. The economic crisis has also given rise to a corresponding policy. PASOK, the party that put the country in the support mechanism, support for the Franco-German banks and not the citizens, was oppressed. The New Democracy experienced deterioration, but just because it trades politically fear, it managed to survive. SYRIZA, on the other hand, traded hope, but that was crushed by a hole in July 2015 by him, just six years ago, and by the dogma of an unacceptable or astounding jumper. Is there an alternative way of managing today and where does the choice of internal devaluation, austerity, deregulation and primary surpluses lead us as a society? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We, as a PARTA25, believe that the bankruptcy file should be opened in the House. We are voting against both bills. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-06-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr. Loyadis. We are now finishing with the special speakers and the rapporteurs and the parliamentary representatives are staying. Mrs Bakandima will not speak because Mr Varoufakis or Mr Hetas spoke because Mr Velopoulos spoke. Mr. Karathanasopoulos has spoken. Therefore, Mr. Katrinis now has the floor from the Change Movement. Here you go, Mr. Catarini, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-06-S1-commons.u23	Thank you very much, Mr President. Allow me before I come to the contents of today's debate and speak of the Banking Union and the issues that concern the Greek banking system, to begin with the issue that burns Greek society, of course, concerning the exacerbation of the pandemic and the vaccination effort that should at least be based on citizens' participation. But in order to have the citizen ally in this objectively difficult effort, you must also have confidence and credibility. And the government, unfortunately, has nothing of either. She's lost her credibility. He undermined and undermines daily citizens' confidence in both the vaccination effort and the management of the pandemic. Who is responsible for the old-fashioned AstraZeneca thing? Not the citizens. Who is responsible for the confusion caused by the ministers themselves even today by their contradictory statements? You saw what Mr. Syssis said by the Committee on Literature. Basically, he said scientists had not consented to the abolition of the use of masks abroad. And it turns out that some ministers who were raped to announce this measure have asked for a relaxation of the obligation on the use of the mask before the Government, the Ministry of Health, has any evidence of the delta mutation. What kind of message does the government give the citizens with these incidents? You have had a lot of time, gentlemen of the government, to lay rules for vaccinations in critical and decisive areas and workplaces, such as health workers, workers in nursing homes, catering to means of transport, tourism. You didn't. You run after a holiday. And, of course, now that we have the low rates of vaccination, you suddenly agree that a new effort must be made, an information and awareness campaign for citizens. I imagine that that is why you agree that it is not the citizens' fault. All this creates side effects in the economy, with ministers coming out and saying that we will not have horizontal support measures and we will not have horizontal bans, as if they were able to predict the extent of the pandemic that in less than a month's time it seems will dominate our country. To come to the point now, we are in favour of the Banking Union in the context of Economic and Monetary Union, but in our view, when we say Banking Union, beyond the uniform supervision rules of the credit system that are rightly introduced to avoid bank bankruptcy and the loss of deposits, we should also talk about other data. Firstly, we have the issue of interest rates. We cannot talk about Banking Union, when the interest rates at which Greek entrepreneurs are borrowing and citizens are not close, similar, to what we have from the similar entrepreneurs in the other European countries. The Greek business lacks much, so that many businesses choose to transfer their homes abroad. Even interest rates on credit cards that are currently issued in our country, touch or exceed astronomical 16%, while deposit rates are virtually zero. We go to specific elements: Household borrowing costs 4.6%, non-financial corporations borrowing costs 3%, reduced, but high in relation to the European average, non-determined loans 4.3% and small and medium-sized enterprises 3.3%, significantly higher than the other European countries. With regard to the country's divergence in relation to the Eurozone in terms of median lending costs, it was limited by the two hundred ninety base points to sixty, but under the influence of deflationary pressures, the real lending cost increased. However, the most important problem, ladies and gentlemen, is the question of liquidity. This banking system for which we are today legislating for stability, for rescuing if necessary and for supporting not only the deposits of our fellow citizens, but also the banking system itself, does not do the work and the role for which they are registered. I will not get tired of repeating it that only thirty thousand businesses in a total of eight hundred and thirty thousand active VDUs currently have access to liquidity. 60% of applications -80%, on the basis of yesterday's figures - are rejected by the banks on the grounds that these companies and the significant resources channelled by the PPP are not viable in the real economy. Those who are being channelled, Minister - you know that better than me - are through the Greek Development Bank's programmes. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute. Two thirds of the value of disbursed maturity loans to small and medium-sized enterprises is linked to the Development Bank's programmes. So what does that mean? That the banking system doesn't finance the economy. Is that just the problem? Oh, no. There is an unequal distribution of funding. Large companies are lending more. In fact, the first quarter of 2021 increased the rate of lending for large enterprises. One third of bank financing is heading - and you hear, ladies and gentlemen - all sixty-eight and all large companies with loans of 24.5 billion, at the same time that sixty-three thousand small and medium-sized enterprises have a residual loan of 41 billion. Six hundred eighty have 25 billion, sixty thousand small ones have 41 billion. Household financing is reduced in 2020, less than 2021, and I am afraid, Minister, that for the year we are spending, despite the predictions that we will have an increased flow of borrowing, the net flow will not exceed 2 to 3 billion. I wonder - and this is my far-reaching remark - as far as the Responsibility Observatory recommended by the Government in October 2020 is concerned - and I also address the Members of the New Democracy - precisely to cure these problems, precisely to put conditions and rules in the banking system, precisely to extend the funding conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the ones currently suffering the worst consequences of the crisis, what is its role to date? No one, zero. You are only holding meetings with the institutions and the bankers and you are making sure that you communicate it, but to this day, the banking system with the tolerance of the government, firstly, closes the cannons, thus leading to the economic death of thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises. And for the private debt and red loans issues, you challenge the fact that they are falling into the banks' balance sheets, but are not reduced to household pockets and portfolios. On the other hand, not only are they increasing, Minister, but unfortunately and in unfavourable terms, in bankruptcy, which has now been triggered by seizures that have begun and by auctions that will be intensified after October 2021, in this whole environment, the government remains unsatisfactory, observes services, funds and banks not to finance the economy, on the one hand, and on the other, to go to aggressive enforcement measures against businesses and property. We therefore believe that the Greek political system should not only bring contracts and support the banking system. It must also set the terms and conditions in the banking system to keep the economy alive and society upright. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-06-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr. Catherine. The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA Mr Nikolaos Srmalenes has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-06-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the Government continues to bring in a constant way new legislation and the Ministry of Finance, beyond the normal operating limits of Parliament, by making use of the pandemic to minimize the reactions. We saw this in the working bill last year, we saw it in Mr Hatzidakis' environmental bill and we will see it again in relation to the privatisation of subsidiary insurance, which will come from within July. At the same time, however, it seeks to minimise the preparation of opposition parties. Because with this storm, one bill not after another, on top of the other, it is obvious that serious preparation and dialogue, and with social actors, much more so with society, are not done. So we're in the summer. The economy and tourism have opened up, but unfortunately for most of the country things are not going well. Any optimism injections that try to pass the government officials and friendly channels, tourism in the major tourist places, Rhodes, Crete, Corfu, Halkidiki and others, is far behind and is predicted by what seems to be, unfortunately, again I say, yes is behind the forecasts. Because the government with its republics does not inspire trust, neither in the Greek people nor in our foreign friends. We are the seventeenth country in the European Union in vaccinations. The separation policies of vaccinated and non-vaccinated animals, which are to be implemented, and with the responsibility of store owners, again target individual responsibility. The stimulus of 150 euros for young people to be vaccinated serves as a takeover. Unfortunately, we are in front of the fourth wave of the pandemic with the Delta mutation. The infectious ones claim that taking out the mask on the outside was not a decision of their own, but a government decision. So within all this comes Prime Minister Mitsotakis in his interview with "KATHMERINI" and accuses SYRIZA and the whole of the opposition of exercising a sanitary sabotage, while not only does he not shield and shield the National Health System from permanent intakes, but imply that there are excess hospitals in the region, in other words unnecessarily hospitals, what? Basically, they have to shut down. As far as the economy is not concerned, despite the triumphs, the reality is that we are the third country in the recession in 2020 with 8.2% recession. The recession continued in the first quarter of 2021. The prospects are uncertain, and because of pandemic, the overall growth rate is constantly being revised downwards. If the data on Morgan Stanley's estimates are not verified, then the results for 2021 will unfortunately be disastrous. Unemployment in young people has worked 38%, while the future is badly predicted, if all companies are out of line. The fact that only 15% of enterprises from the eight hundred thousand have access to the banking system demonstrates the depth of the crisis and the continued operation of the banking system with a painful impact on small and medium-sized enterprises, while the implementation of the new bankruptcy code and the loss of the first residence will make the prospect of society's weakest and most vulnerable. The sanctions that we are voting on today, which aim to save credit institutions with the help of all the Member States of the European Union, open up the debate on the course of the European Union, but ultimately and with the prospect of what Europe we want. That is why it is also an opportunity to vote on these sanctions, which are technical agreements for us, in the light of the two major crises, which we have seen in recent years, the debt crisis that began in 2008, particularly for the countries of the south, but also the pandemic crisis, to see where the European Union is going. Is it on the road to social cohesion, democracy, peace or has established under the long domination of the European People's Party - to which the New Democracy belongs - a neoliberal policy, a policy of market sovereignty and lasting austerity? Of course, the pandemic has led a lot of people to think about where we're going. Does public intervention, the public sector in particular in health and the social state, have to bear the burden on society and the economy? Evidently some steps have been taken, but debt-sharing and the common loan to finance the Recovery Fund are cowardly steps in relation to, for example, Biden policy in the United States of America where public intervention is claimed. And of course the Financial Stability Pact has been suspended since 2020 and will be suspended until the end of 2022, but what will happen after 1-1-2023? Are we going to return to the narrow corset of budgetary austerity and discipline, or are there going to be another course, under other conditions and other criteria, as also called for in the European Parliament, but, more generally, in the countries of the left, the Greens and left-wing social democracy, that is, the forces of progressive alliance in the European Union? Finally, what is the position of the New Democracy in view of all this, in view of the prospect of the ending of the suspension of the Financial Stability Pact? Ladies and gentlemen of the government, with your policy and your actions, it turns out that you are the most fanatical lovers of market immunity, namely austerity for the many and prosperity for the few and the mighty. You hit the world of work, you damage the environment, you reduce the public space and public intervention to the altar of the service of the few and the fine investors and you consider yourself to be the motor for the development of the Greek economy. With this prospect, however, the Greece of many is not built, a Greece is not built that can find its prospect as a strong country, creating a strong social state and supporting the vast majority, but building a Greek of a few and powerful chosen friends of yours, domestic and foreign.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-06-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, too, Mr. Symphony. The Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy, Mr Yiannis Vroutzis, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-06-S1-commons.u27	Mr President, many times in this Chamber there is the impression that we are discussing without listening to each other. I say this because, by passing the Step, my colleague and from the same prefecture an elected friend, Mr Armalene, and listening to him, I find that many times or 'the wrong one is the glove', which is what the people say or 'the wrong we are milking'. As soon as yesterday in this Chamber we discussed and voted on the new medium-term framework of the Financial Strategy 2022-2025. I see, even in such a draft law, which is the application of European Union directives necessary to support the banking system, that is necessary in order to guarantee the Member States themselves, that placements are within, except in the sense that we find the opportunity to say a thousand other things, apart from this law and at the same time to say irresponsible complaints which do not exist. In this bill, which we voted on the day before yesterday, we agreed that growth as set out in the very conservative assumptions, as the Finance Minister explained for 2021 will reach 3.6% - with the most conservative assumptions - when all international houses see growth more than 4%, we conservatively download the cubit to 3.6%, 6.2% for 2022, 4.1%, 4.4%, 3.5% for 2025. Is this something that the government says alone, or is it something that comes from the macro-economic analysis of the Ministry of Finance, or is it something the European Union agrees with about the prospect of the Greek economy, or is it something that is done with an automatic pilot? It is, therefore, something that is determined on the basis of the evidence from the Ministry of Finance, based on conservative forecasts in all economic sizes, and most importantly it is something that is not created by itself. It is what has been created and continues to be created through the strong reformist trend that this government has. Reformist trend and reformist initiatives, which bring results. For how else can I explain that this development potential of our country comes to be combined with the country's great credibility, which, as you know very well, from a single size, is evidenced by the ability to borrow from abroad at low interest rates? Today, our country is lending and fortunately in the crisis it has borrowed several billions to support the Greek economy, jobs, workers and businesses. We have given 41 billion euros all this time as a government. We did well for the good of society, for social cohesion in the maintenance of jobs, returnable advances. Yeah, we did. Much of all that money came through lending. A loan, currently under 1%, when 2010 was about 3% on SYRIZA. That's the reality. Let's see the other part about the dynamics of the Greek economy. We're in two different directions. I also know from the positions of SYRIZA officials that it is in favour of an increase in taxation. We have another perception of things: a reduction in taxation on natural persons, a reduction in taxation on businesses, a reduction in insurance contributions. And when we brought them in, because in this Chamber no one can hide, SYRIZA did not vote for them. For example, from all the initiatives taken by the government: Reduction of ENPY 22%. The Greek government brought it. You didn't vote for it. Reduction of the tax rate on natural persons from 22% to 9% and increase the tax on each child. It's a law of the state. You didn't vote for it. Reduction of the profit tax rate for all enterprises from 28% to 22%. It's a law of the state. You didn't vote for it. Reduction of the tax advance on natural persons engaged in business from 100% to 55%. You didn't vote for it. Reduction of the tax rate for dividends from 10% to 5%. You didn't vote for it. Reduction of tax advance from 100% to 80%. You didn't vote for it. Reduction of insurance contributions, Samara government, as Minister of Labour, having the responsibility of the portfolio. Six points reduction in insurance contributions. Then you did not vote for it, 2012-2014. Four units now to the government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis. You didn't vote for it. Low rate of tax for all agricultural schemes by 10%. Consolidating the reduced rate of VAT by 30% on the five Greek islands as long as they have asylum seekers' structures. You didn't vote for it. Repeal of the EMA for the smaller islands. You didn't vote for it. Your choice is, here we are all judged and evaluated by the Greek people. This is our political attitude towards society and the economy, which we want a strong economy so that we can support jobs and create a good framework for creating jobs, quality jobs and well-paid workers. In my time, Mr President, I simply want to introduce this bill and say that Greece has always supported and continues to support further deepening economic and monetary policy. We believe that its completion is necessary in order to make the most of the benefits arising from participation in it by all Member States. In this context we welcome, over time, not now, all the efforts that have now been made and the previous years in this direction. At the same time, we are actively and constructively taking part in discussions on the new European economic architecture with a view to achieving further progress. Our prolongation, ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy has the great honour of being the first party, which at Constantine Karamanlis, when he went into the big bet for the country, has shown the right way for the future of our country, the path of the EEC, which was then the whole of the opposition to the European Union today. Today, tens of years later, the rightness of the New Democracy of Constantine Karamanlis, the man who created the New Democracy is confirmed, that he chose the critical moment, against the voices and slogans of that period, the right path for our country. We are all aware of the great benefits that we have received over all these years, support at a difficult time for our country, through the European Union. We as a New Democracy, not now as a government but previously as an opposition, when and whenever SYRIZA brought such initiatives, which are the product of ratification of international agreements, are always in favour because we know that the interest of our country, the interest of Greece, the interest of this generation and future generations is within Europe. And every time, we will do our utmost to deepen the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-06-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr. Brutsi. We will close with the intervention of the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Zavvos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-06-S1-commons.u29	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government today brings two draft laws to Parliament concerning the ratification of two agreements, on the one hand, of the International Agreement on the Amendment of the Treaty on the Stability Mechanism and, on the other, of the amendment of the Treaty on the Single Resolution Fund and, in particular, of the possibility of reconciling its resources. We also had the opportunity yesterday to discuss several aspects of these two bills in the Special Economic Committee, but also today. We must, however, see the substance on which the Government is also calling on the House to vote in favour of both these laws. As we know, in the 2008-2009 Eurozone crisis there were serious problems and, above all, there was the problem that there was no single surveillance, because the crisis in the Eurozone, unlike many believe in Greece, was a radical banking crisis, hence the need to deepen the already existing union with three new pillars. First of all, by supervising the so-called SSM, the Single Supervisory Mechanism. The second pillar is the Single Resolution Mechanism, which has two components: on the one hand, the Single Resolution Authority and on the other, the Single Resolution Fund. The third pillar concerns the possibility of a European deposit guarantee system. But we know that, in any of the previously state-run associations, the banking union, such as that of the United States, needs one fund on one hand to be fully operational. In the United States there has been the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation which has been operating almost since the beginning of the 1930s. In order to be credible, however, there must also be budgetary support. In the United States this support comes, if necessary, from Treasury, that is, from the Ministry of Finance. In Europe, where steps are taking towards integration and financial integration, we have, on the one hand, the Single Resolution Fund, which was set up around the middle of the last decade, and on the other hand the European Stability Mechanism, the so-called ESM, which was established in 2012. The amendment of the Treaties further strengthens the ability of the European Stability Mechanism to support when the Single Resolution Fund is needed. The Single Resolution Fund is aimed primarily at resolving banks, particularly systemic banks, because the resolution of non-systemic banks is left to the national authorities. There is still a great gap in European integration. Therefore, with the amendments that are being made at the moment and call on you to vote, there is an even greater shield of this possibility. In other words, the ESM is now able by means of a common security mechanism so-called common backstop to support the Single Resolution Fund where necessary. You realise that this is a substantial, real improvement and not just a technical one, as it may be, because we have the European Union here with a quasi-financial arm to support the banking union, and here is one of the important elements of the political unions to which the European Union is inclined. In other words, we need those mechanisms which divide the burdens of a crisis even more through the states. I would just like to say that this possibility of backstop interference is the greatest improvement. Second big improvement. It concerns the change in the functioning of the financial instruments of the European Stability Mechanism. And here is exactly a change in relation to the conditional preventive credit limit, the so-called Precautionary Conditioned Credit Line (PCCL). Its use is now subject to stricter eligibility criteria, but - and this is important - it is not accompanied by a memorandum of understanding. And you realise that this is something that has been done so that it can be possible when a Member State comes to this point to seek not to have this stigma, which is precisely considered to keep the states away from recourse to this mechanism. The second issue concerns the role of the European Stability Mechanism in the context of financial assistance, specifying the responsibilities, now increased, of the ESM, but also of the European Commission. I would like, Mr President, finally to see what is the essence of these amendments and of the changes that are taking place under these two Treaties. I would say that it is the essence of today's debate that is right in these two steps that have been taken which strengthen the crisis management mechanism of the Eurozone and of the European Union. These are important steps which the Greek Government supports, which we think is an important step towards political unification of Europe. Because - and I stress again - the possibility of burden-sharing, that is, Burden Sharing, is an element of integrated state union. I am not saying that it is enough, I am not saying that it is enough, because the two conditions relate to transnational conditions, to Member States that vote and not just to the European Union. However, I think it is very important from the outset. Here I think that the demand for speeding up the European banking union again is being renewed, with what we also support, by completing the deposit guarantee mechanism, by speeding up the association of the European capital markets, but also by promoting a form of fiscal union capable of supporting banking union. Let us not forget - and it is the lesson in history - that there has never been a banking union without support for a fiscal union and there has never been a fiscal union that does not have a fully functioning banking union. This is the message of the previous crisis. That is Europe's message. This, if you want, is also the important element in the forthcoming negotiations on the new architecture. In other words, we are strengthening the European Stability Mechanism so that stabilising is done even better. At the same time, we know that the Union has taken the big step of the Recovery Fund. What else is the Recovery Fund rather than just a clear sign of the promotion of fiscal policy in terms which will be made available following joint drawing from European and international markets in order to finance the recovery and development of the European economy? Mr President, I will conclude by replying very briefly to some of the issues raised. Mr. Kocket and Mr. Symblene referred to what we are doing about the debt. I would like to say that in these two years since New Democracy took responsibility for governance, you have seen what we are doing with tangible results for the reduction of red loans through the 'IRAKLIS' programme. Red loans are falling 32 billion euros in the first period, without even 1 euros being charged by the Greek taxpayer. We will bring the House tomorrow to extend the programme 'HARAKLIS' aimed at reducing at least 32 billion remaining red loans so that we already have a one-digit number of red loans this year and certainly the next one, achieving the exact average of the euro area. I wanted to say here in Mr Villard's remarks that the Bank of Greece is saying in its figures that it can - if I held it well, because you mentioned it - there can be 15 billion new red loans. I would like to say that it is an opinion. The supervisor of the systemic banks shall be SSM, the European Central Bank. He hasn't given us a sample yet. However, the samples we have of all four systemic banks in constant discussions we have had are that in no case red loans that can be created due to COVID will exceed 4 or 5 billion. In other words, this is a sum fully managed by the HARAKLIS programme, which the government has and operates with the confidence of international investors.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-06-S1-commons.u30	Please complete, Minister. You've been in 12 minutes, and Mr. Staruras has spoken eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-06-S1-commons.u31	Mr President, it has been four times the year before. Just one minute to say on the issue of microfinance. You mentioned what we're doing for liquidity. The liquidity has been given horrifying opportunities, instruments, guarantee schemes and others. This is why the real economy and households are so far supported, but, at the same time, the banking system is also supported, because there are no new red loans. As far as the funding is concerned, you remember that last year we have all voted on an excellent bill that has been implemented. As far as we are concerned, the Bank of Greece is already under negotiation by two companies to obtain permission to operate. I would like to say in relation to the reports by some Members of Parliament on what the Development Bank has done: the Development Bank in eighteen months has provided EUR 8 billion in loans, while in the past four years the loans have not only exceeded some million. Mr President, I would also like to thank you for your tolerance and ask the House to vote in favour of these two Community laws on the basis of which an important step is actually taking place in the European Union, but also in relation to issues relating to financial stability and the Greek banking system. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-06-S1-commons.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle of uniformity, the articles and all the draft laws of the Ministry of Finance and their vote will be taken separately. We enter the resolution on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Furthermore, the Agreement amending the Treaty establishing the European Stability Mechanism between the Kingdom of Belgium, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Republic of Estonia, Ireland, the Hellenic Republic, the Kingdom of Spain, the French Republic, the Italian Republic, the Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, the Republic of Malta, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Republic of Austria, the Portuguese Republic, the Republic of Slovenia, the Slovak Republic and the Republic of Finland’. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-06-S1-commons.u33	Ladies and gentlemen, since you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-06-S1-commons.u34	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-06-S1-commons.u35	Accordingly, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Modification of the Agreement amending the Treaty establishing the European Stability Mechanism between the Kingdom of Belgium, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Republic of Estonia, Ireland, the Hellenic Republic, the Kingdom of Spain, the French Republic, the Italian Republic, the Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, the Republic of Malta, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Republic of Austria, the Portuguese Republic, the Republic of Slovenia, the Slovak Republic and the Republic of Finland’, has been accepted by a majority of single majority on the principle, Articles and all of the following:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-06-S1-commons.u36	We are voting in favour of the principle, Articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Union of the Agreement amending the Agreement on the Transfer and Mutualisation of Contributions to the Single Resolution Fund between the Kingdom of Belgium, the Republic of Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, the Kingdom of Denmark, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Republic of Estonia, Ireland, the Hellenic Republic, the Kingdom of Spain, the French Republic, the Republic of Croatia, the Italian Republic, the Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, Hungary, the Republic of Malta, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Poland, the Portuguese Republic, Romania, the Republic of Slovenia, the Slovak Republic and the Republic of Finland’. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-06-S1-commons.u37	Ladies and gentlemen, since you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-06-S1-commons.u38	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-06-S1-commons.u39	Accordingly, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Modification of the Agreement amending the Agreement for the Transfer and Mutualisation of Contributions to the Single Resolution Fund between the Kingdom of Belgium, the Republic of Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, the Kingdom of Denmark, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Republic of Estonia, Ireland, the Hellenic Republic, the Kingdom of Spain, the French Republic, the Republic of Croatia, the Italian Republic, the Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, Hungary, the Republic of Malta, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Poland, the Portuguese Republic, Romania, the Republic of Slovenia, the Slovak Republic and the Republic of Finland’, has been accepted by a majority of the principle, Articles and all of the following:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-06-S1-commons.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to ratify the Minutes of today's sitting on the vote on all these drafts.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-06-S1-commons.u41	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-06-S1-commons.u42	With the consent of the House at 12.27 hours the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Wednesday 7 July at 9.00 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent questions.
