ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 4-2-2021, the OE's minutes were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau, on Thursday, February 4, 2021, with regard to the vote on the entire draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘The General Census Action 2021 by the Greek Statistical Authority, urgent arrangements to address the impact of the COVID Pandemic -19, urgent financial and tax arrangements and other provisions’.]] Before entering the debate on the topical and urgent questions, I have the honour of announcing to the House the issue of Monday's Question Time of 8 February 2021. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 353/26-1-2021 by MP B1' North Athens Section of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Georgios Katrugalos to the Foreign Minister, on the subject: ‘When will the memorandums with northern Macedonia be passed on to Parliament? How will there be significant delays in school books and trademarks?’ 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 355/28-1-2021 by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Uncertainty for the Scaramaga shipyards and the workers". 3. The Question No 357/28-1-2021 by MP B2' West Athens Division of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Aiolic in Andros: The Ministry's statements for "fresh" within the network "NATURA 2000" prove empty content. The cancellation of the windy in Samothraki shall apply.’; B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 360/29-1-2021 by Mr Haralambos, Member of the European Parliament, Mr Haralambos, Vice-President of the Commission, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: 'Do the Government intend to increase the prices of belts and as a result of objective values and taxes on immovable property'? 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 365/1-2-2021 of the Member of the State of Change Movement Mr. Georgios Kamine to the Minister of Migration and Asylum, on the subject: 'Refugee profile of asylum seekers in the country and recognised refugees living in the host country and the islands'. 3. The 367/1-2-2021 topical question by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Do not count the absences of students who did not have electronic equipment during teleworking." 4. The 371/1-2-2021 topical question by SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance Mr.Alexandros - Christou Ayloniti to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Transparency at the General Hospital of Corfu". 5. The 366/1-2-2021 topical question by the Member of Parliament of Boeotia of the Change Movement Mr. Georgios Mulkiotis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "When will retire retired people without a pension be stopped?" 6. The 369/1-2-2021 topical question by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Respect the "no" of the Municipalities of Zagori and Metsov at the installation of windshields in protected areas". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question by number 373/1-2-2021 of the current question by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: 'Let unemployment benefit be finally paid to the beneficiaries'. 8. The 374/1-2-2021 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Fifteen proposals from the Change Movement to keep them alive focusing, retail trade, tourist businesses, services, production". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question and application under number 2999/429/31-12-2020 of the SYRIZA MP's documents - Progressive Alliance Mr Socrates Famelou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Explained delays and unfair practices in the operation of the Greek Recycling Organization against the public interest and the environment". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by number 2967/29-12-2020 asked by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, on "The Government Initiatives on Elefsina Shipyards". 3. The 2854/420/21-12-20 question and application for the submission of documents by SYRIZA MEP - Progressive Alliance Mr Socrates Famelou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "A business plan to deal with air pollution in Thessaloniki". 4. The question by No 2989/30-12-2020 asked by the Deputy Prime Minister of the Change Movement Mr. Dimitrios Biagis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on "Support measures for workers of a seasonal nature". 5. The question by No 2913/23-12-2020 asked by MP Laconia of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Stavros Arachovitis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, entitled "Movements of students - family reunification". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs shall inform the House in writing: "We hereby inform you of the topical and urgent debate on parliamentary scrutiny on Friday, February 5, 2021, that the topical questions to be debated are as follows: Questions Nos 358/28-1-2021, 361/29-1-2021 and 368/1-2-2021 topical questions from the Minister of Culture and Sport Mr Styliani Mendoni. Questions Nos 362/29-1-2021 and 370/1-2-2021 will be answered by the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr Constantine Karamanlis. Question No 363/29-1-2021 will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sport, Eleftherios Aygeakis. Questions Nos 352/25-1-2021, 359/28-1-2021 and 364/1-2-2021 will be answered by the State Secretary for Rural Development and Food, Mr Fotini Arabaji.’ We begin with the first with number 361/29-1-2021, a timely question from the Prime Minister of SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance Mr.Alexandros - Christou Aylonitis to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Actions to restore the abandonment image caused by the arbitrary structures of the Old Fortress Corfu". Mr. Aylonite, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, thank you for coming. I am convinced of certain things, especially in the objectives that I put as a member of the Corfu Parliament, in the direction of solving some problems. One of them is what I brought you today to discuss. In particular, you know very well that, on 25-5-2020, we have discussed a topical question, asking you to tell me what action you have taken to restore this disgusting image to the "person", I would say, the city of Corfu, which is historically charged, excellent architectural beauty and mainly protected as a monument to UNESCO. I would like to remind you that on October 28, 2019 you had come to Corfu and promised that a comprehensive management plan will be drawn up for the monumental fortress bands and specifically for the Old Fortress of Corfu. We are talking about this disgusting picture in relation to the very many offenses that are in his moat, that is, what we call "Contra Fossa" have been housed for years since the 1960s, various amateur fishermen. This picture is seen by thousands of people who visit the Old Fortress of Corfu. Then you promised me here on 25 May specifically that "the relevant departments of the Ministry complete the specifications by the end of this month in order to complete this management plan, which I said in October in Corfu." So I want you to tell me exactly what you have done, so that the process of removing these arbitrary complaints, the dozens of complaints, which create a picture of favelas in a row, begins. I would also like you to tell me, if you are kind enough, whether there has been an administrative procedure for the performance of administrative elimination protocols, all of which have been arbitrarily used for so many years and have been powered by the central power system of the Old Fortress. So I would like you to be kind enough to tell me your actions so far. Thank you, Mr President, and apologise for spending the two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u3	Thank you. The Minister for Culture and Sport will answer Mrs Styliani Mendoni. Mrs. Mendoni, good morning. You have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u4	Good morning, Mr. President. Good morning, Mr Papoutsis, and thank you for the question. Of course, in May 2020, we discussed this issue again, and I told you that the overall emergence of the Old Fortress of Corfu is one of the priorities of the Ministry of Culture. I just want to remind you that in the five years 2015-2019, ruled by SYRIZA, no work actually went on in both these flagic monuments of the city. And I mean the Old Fortress and the New Fortress. In view of the lack of a strategic planning to highlight the fortresses and the occupation of the area of the Old Fortress by immovable properties and structures that alter the form of the fortification, which also did not take place in previous years - you have just said that these structures have been there since the 1960s - the Ministry of Culture proceeded with the procedures for drawing up the management plan for the Old and the New Fort, in accordance with the legislation in force. The relevant departments completed, as I said in May, the drafting of the specifications of the management plan, which were adopted - that is, the act of execution, the decision of the responsible Director-General - on 3 September 2020, after the opinion of the Central Archaeological Council and the procedures for the award of the drafting of the draft. The services collaborated and collaborated with the School of Architecture Engineering of the National Technical University for the preparation of a research project on the development of the management plan for the Old and New Fortress of Corfu. The cost of the programme, which is EUR 180,000, is covered by the budget of the Ministry of Culture and starts to work out immediately, namely at the beginning of 2021. The management plan under way forms the framework for an integrated management of the prominent monuments, introducing a strategic planning, setting priorities, objectives and timetables. This covers all aspects of their protection and promotion, in accordance with international standards. We are interested in recording the needs and capabilities of the two monumental sets and then systeming and hierarchy in the short, medium and long term horizons for the projects and work on their integrated protection, maintenance and restoration. In the context of the programme, the area of the retreat of the old Fortress, where today throughout the entire length and the bases of the great bridge, I repeat, since the 1960s, the arbitrary handmade buildings of the Association of amateur fishermen of Corfu, in the "Contra Fossa" have been at the "Contra Fossa". The management plan will include concrete proposals for the removal of illegal buildings, the emergence of the moat and the relocation of the fishermen's club. In my dentistry, I shall reply very specifically to you about what you have asked about electricity and what has already been done.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u5	Thank you very much, Mrs. Mendoni. Mr. Aylonite, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, it was not my intention to oppose whether in the four and a half years that SYRIZA was a government in the harsh budgetary crisis, it did any work in connection with the management, in any case, of the two fortresses of Corfu. My aim is this arbitrary situation, this terrible situation ceases to exist. You are telling me about a management plan, and I believe that you are already working on, completing and implementing it. But I'll have to remind you that I'm a lawyer. The removal of these complaints does not depend on the preparation of a management plan, but on the removal in an administrative way of these complaints, and then the restoration of the space, improvement of the space can be part of a project. In this case the Town Plan should have already been undertaken, the Land Office, in the direction of issuing administrative expulsion protocols, because, regardless of whether it is from 1960 or 1970 or 1537 the siege of Muslims has been carried out, what is particularly important is the removal of offenses and not the development of a management plan. I would simply like to say to you that this unacceptable situation - which is a timeless responsibility for those who have borrowed in institutional positions in Corfu but also in the Ministry - creates huge problems in the image of Corfu. At the same time, it has also created political situations and a customer party system in the region of Old Corfu, which should be lifted. So my two questions, especially today, are intended to work together to stop there being, not to justify myself for the SYRIZA period and you for so many years that you are running the country. Therefore, what I ask you to do is initiate the procedure, working together with your Ministry's department with the Land Administration, obviously, in order to move administratively - the matter will obviously also be brought before the court - for the issue of an administrative expulsion protocol. Already, a few days after the debate on the first question, the Antiquities Service of Corfu sent a document to the Town of Corfu, whose findings I do not know. At some point, the Congressman of Corfu must have full information about what is happening. It's not that simple. In my opinion, your answer is completely vague and does not aim at what is required. I would remind you that a project of EUR 65,000 has been carried out some time ago, if I remember well, part of the Interreg project, which, within its design and the contractor's commitments, was to remove complaints from the opposite side, just under the walls of the Fortress. They were never removed, despite the fact that the contractor was paid. All these dozens of lesions continue to be powered by the Fortress's central electrification system. How is that possible? I have documents showing that the TEN and PPC have carried out checks and I see a body of complaints being electro-plated. What exactly is going on? Will the plan for the management of the Old Fortress solve issues that have to do with legality within an archaeological site protected by UNESCO? I think you should answer that, Minister, and give me the opportunity to tell the Corfiot citizens that your ministry is moving in the right direction to protect the Old Fortress. I'm rescheduling photos of exactly what's going on in the Old Fortress. [[At this point, the Member, Alexandros - Christos Aylonitis, presents for the minutes the above photographs, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, too. Mrs. Mendoni, you have three minutes at your disposal. I would ask you to wear your mask if you speak from your position.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u8	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Papoutsis, I have not mentioned the period 2015-2019, to say exactly that nothing has happened and we are all responsible, and so on. I have just mentioned this because it is a situation that has been shaped since 1960 and which has not been resolved in all these decades, but also in your own governance, which I believe has been a priority, since you are now setting it at length, and even in the period when you personally had a part of the matter of local government, nothing has been done to remove these complaints. So I come to tell you specific things, as you say. You know that the project framework: "Show part of the forefront of the Old Corfu Fortress", this project you mentioned is also part of the Interreg "Greece - Albania 2014-2020" and is carried out by the Archbishop of Antiquities of Corfu, includes activities of mild enhancement and accessibility in the field of the sea moat and in part of the inner battalion of Savorgnan. In the context of this work, therefore, Corfu Antiquities editor removed illegal structures from the foot of the bridge, and TEDDEE interrupted the illegal supply of electricity to these homes, the illegal ones, apart from the building that houses the offices of the Association of amateur fishermen. In addition, the Department of Building and Demolition Inspectorate of the Ministry of Environment and Energy on 14-1-2021 requested the Building Agency of Corfu and the Town Planning of the Municipality of Central Corfu and Diapondin Islands to record and demolition the arbitrary constructions from the moat. Nevertheless, the question of the final solution, as I said before, is not only to remove them, it is a whole thing to shape this space. This is one of the themes, which will examine and resolve a comprehensive management plan. I repeat, the main points to be addressed are the protection of the two fortresses, their restoration and maintenance, their emergence and visibility, the improvement of their function and infrastructure, including the movement of visitors, and, finally, the improvement of their relationship with the immediate urban environment. The management plan shall include the documentation of the two fortresses and the recording of their problems and pathology, the preparation of a comprehensive programme and projects, in which specific proposals for intervention in the two monumental complexes will be established, with a clear hierarchy. The above, as set out in these specifications, will be accompanied by a hierarchy of studies, tables of timetables and preliminary budgets. This is the first time that the fortress bands, the jewel of Corfu city, the jewelry of the island is treated as part of the principles of integrated protection, as the institutional framework imposes. It's not just a question of removing arbitrary structures. Obviously, this has already begun, as I have said, and will be completed in the context of the management plan. The issue is how you restore this image and especially how you ensure proper protection, promotion and promotion of these two monumental complexes of the island, which has not been systematically done so far. So we're waiting. You are asking, as you are asking, why you represent the people of Corfu - within about two years to conclude a process which was not done at any level in the previous 50 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mrs. Mendoni. Well, we're going with the times, because we have to hand over the Hall at 11: 30. The question, under No 128/34/6-10-2020, and application for the submission of documents of the reporting cycle - questions by the MP of Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Annoyance between producers about the opacity and unequal treatment of areas in the allocation of rights from the national reserve from 2017 onwards", will not be discussed after consultation. Next is the third with number 358/28-1-2021.Previous second question by MP B1's North Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Klonas Gregoriadis to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Surprise announcement of intentional conversion of five public museums into legal entities governed by public law". Mr. Gregoriadis, you have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u10	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much, Minister, as always you are here to answer our questions. I wanted to ask you the following questions. As you know better than I, on 22 December last, three days before Christmas, namely, the government at a Ministerial Council decided, in our view, somewhat surprisingly, to change the legal status of the five largest museums in the country. I'm saying it so people can hear it and know what museums we're talking about. It is the National Archaeological Museum, the Byzantine and Christian Museum, the Archaeological Museum of Thessaloniki, the Museum of Byzantine Culture and the Archaeological Museum of Heraklion. They become legal persons under public law. You know that this decision was taken without consulting any institutions - not only you - the entire government - was taken in the pandemic and, as I said, two - three days before the Christmas date. We're wondering, why all this rush? What has suddenly run and had to be done in all these circumstances? Greece is falling apart, and I do not say it in opposition. In our opinion, this change in the legal status of museums, Minister, will hit museums very hard, but also the archaeological service. Why? Because, in our view, this legislative change jeopardises the public nature of the museums in the country, as well as the uniform nature of the National Archaeological Office. Our museums are at risk of being transformed into businesses that will put aside their artistic, educational, and ultimately aim to make profitability. Also, if they become legal entities governed by public law, as you can see, the government will be able to appoint the boards of directors, so that in the end the administrations of our most important museums will be pawns in the hands of each government. I'm not just saying yours, the next one, the next one. We may rule one day, God first! I wanted to ask you the following questions. Why was the intention of changing the legislative framework to five such important museums announced so unexpectedly, without consultation and in the midst of the pandemic? What's the rush? In what specific evidence and studies is the government proclaimed based? Secondly, are you sure, can you guarantee that the public nature of our museums and the industrial relations of all workers and specialists will be guaranteed? And I mean, not only those who are already serving, but those who are going to be recruited in those museums in the future. These are the questions and I'm waiting for your answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u11	Thank you very much, Mr Gregoryde. The Minister for Culture and Sport will answer Mr Styliani Mendoni.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u12	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much for the question, Mr Gregoriadis. You know very well that the public museums in Greece are in their overwhelming majority archaeologicals and, as you said, they are now part of the hard core of the state, as they are public services that fall under the administrative hierarchy of the Ministry of Culture. The only exception is the Acropolis Museum, which was established from the outset as a legal person governed by public law and today has to display all this activity. It is clear that museums act as special regional services of the Ministry of Culture have no administrative autonomy and cannot develop an autonomous strategy depending on their nature and their collections. Why? Because it is in the administrative hierarchy of the Directorate-General for Antiquities and Cultural Heritage. Therefore, given that all museums are organisations placed in the service of society that operate with the main purpose of its development, it is clear that their proper functioning and efficient administrative and financial management are inextricably linked to the legal framework that governs them and allows them to limit or limit their potential for their development. Our museums have enormous potential for growth. However, a coordinated effort on structural changes is needed to enable them to function, not under the suffocating administrative and economic framework of the hard state core to which they belong today. This view is supported by a majority of experts at international level and has already been adopted in the largest foreign museums, where the institutional dismissal of museums from tight state embrace, with a view to better and more efficient management of them, has been set and implemented years ago. Furthermore, the intention of changing the legislative framework of museums was not only unexpectedly announced, but was from the outset a strategic objective of the Ministry, which I set in my speech to the House in the government's programming statements. Moreover, pandemic and celebrations cannot be an opportunity to halt any government's work. In addition, with the completion of the draft law, it is clear that there will also be necessary consultation with stakeholders and with society before the draft law is introduced into the relevant committee of the Parliament and that the public consultation procedure will precede. Be sure that all the comments and points made by both workers and trade unions and social actors will be taken into account at all stages of the legislative process until the draft law is passed. In this context, the conversion of the museums mentioned above, i.e. the five specific ones, is intended to acquire administrative and, in many cases, financial self-evident and therefore more flexible. The aim of the museums to be transformed into legal entities governed by public law is to improve their efficiency by exploiting the methods of administration and management of businesses, communication and marketing - not to be afraid of words, we can place them in the right context - to adopt new strategies on the search for resources and on the easier adaptation to the new museum functions and services required by the contemporary visitor. In order to reassure your concern about the functioning of the museums as institutions of the respective government, I inform you that the new legal persons will be administered by a board of directors, the Chairperson and the Vice-President of which will be chosen by a five-member selection committee of public officials, whose members will be appointed together with their alternates by decision of the President of the AACC, as provided for in Article 20 of Law 4735/20. In addition, the organization and operation of each museum will be determined with special attention to each museum, a presidential decree, which will be issued following a proposal by the Minister of Culture. Provision of the public character of museums and the maintenance of the employment relationship of all employees is ensured by their conversion to legal persons, while ensuring that the new bodies are governed by the provisions of public accounting and the legislation on the recruitment of staff to public sector bodies. There is therefore no change in the working relationship between the officials already employed and the organizational position of which will remain at the Ministry. Officials who are to be recruited in the future will obviously be recruited under the statutory procedures laid down for all legal entities governed by public law. I'll come back to the rest in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u13	Thank you very much, Mrs. Mendoni. Mr. Gregoriadis, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u14	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, believe me, we are not intimidated by the words marketing nor by any such words. We simply have a deep conviction, and I think it is a view that will be difficult to oppose with arguments, that museums are not, they are not meant either to pay or profit. It is for them to discipline in the good sense, it is for them to civilize, it is for them to form and for the Greek people to share the historical treasure that this country has. I have an example to tell you, as regards your reference to the possibility that museums will now acquire - with the new regime that will govern them - to develop their own strategy. The same regime has long been governing our public hospitals. See what happens with the governors, on all governments, but also last. Let me remind you what happened a week ago in Corfu, where a public hospital commander invaded his friend outside the age range. The human factor, with what that means, regardless of ideologies, whether it is a communist, whether it is left-wing, right-wing, or anything you can imagine, will be much stronger. And when a government appoints the Board to a large extent, eventually this government will be able to direct the museums itself and will not be self-headed, as I think you have suggested. I'm also telling you that our museums, and you know it better than I do because you are a professor of validity and approved, have never been seconded throughout history by the state and our archaeological service. The Greek State since its recommendation considered the archaeological service as arm and continuity of cultural and political management. And that's because our country has peculiarities. It's one of the countries in the world with most ancient, most monuments. It was always a hand - the hand of our archaeological service and museums. I also have to tell you in relation to your answer that abroad is about a common place - this is what I understood you are claiming - that by their letter - which you must know - many German scientists of international prestige, workers at the German State Museum of Classical Greek Antiquities, they are addressed to our Prime Minister - you know - by calling on him not to move major public museums into legal entities governed by public law in any way. The letter mentions characteristics, Minister: "The choice of such an institutional change for the National Archaeological Museum is not self-determination, especially when the model of state management has worked so far successfully, as in this case. We believe that if we ensure adequate staffing, i.e. technical, administrative, staff, communication and creative staff, the National Archaeological Museum can successfully meet the needs of society and the challenges of the twentieth century." The Germans continue: "In many years of his history the officials of archaeologists, conservators, engineers, chemists, accountants, guardians, cleaners, workers of the National Archaeological Museum served and kept the antiquities from many adventures, even at risk of their lives in particularly rotten times, such as during the Nazi occupation." Look at an ironic story. The German archaeologists tell us that the Greeks, these people who always guard Thermopylae, from the simplest guard to the most important archaeologist or university professor, have kept their lives at risk, with personal risk, this treasure from the nazi occupation that you once conceived them. Look. These people obviously have nothing to do with us. They are people who have a very high prestige, come from a very important museum in Germany and have no reason to do so, except their concern. I have to say to you - so that you do not think that I only close with murmurs - that thank you for telling me that you will not change the regime for all the workers who will be hired from now on, because this is very important to these people. But we're very afraid it's not enough, Minister. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u15	Mrs. Mendoni, you have three minutes too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u16	Thank you very much. Mr Papoutsis, because the museums are all about what you have said, they are an area of research, an area of education and education and, in both senses, we must accept that things are evolving and things are evolving. I will not specifically comment on the letter from colleagues from the German museum, because it is a very long debate and one can detect how and why. So let us leave this out of our debate. If you want to discuss it ad hoc at another time. I don't know if all you've said is the bad things that will happen, if that's the case for the Acropolis Museum. The Acropolis Museum didn't come up all of a sudden. There was the old museum before the new one was founded, which was part of the archaeological service, namely the Antiquities of Acropolis at that time. Today the Acropolis Museum in its administrative form, the legal person governed by public law, based on international statistics, is one of the world's five best museums. That's no accident. And of course, the employees at the Acropolis Museum are either archaeologists or engineers, maintainers, all staff are neither different nor inferior to the archaeological service staff for the very simple reason that most of them come from the archaeological service. Just the legal form of the museum, so that is what we want to do in all five major museums in the country, allows him to develop different administrative and economic processes, different extrovert procedures, precisely because it does not suffocate under the very tight embrace of the state core. It does not mean that the legal persons governed by public law do not belong to the public. It doesn't mean their executives are inferior. And I think it's an insult, if you like, right now to the members of the specific board of directors of this museum. I don't understand. Do they not do their job well? So you're using them as an example to avoid? We have one reality. The debate on the conversion of museums into legal entities governed by public law in Greece dates back to the 1990s. At that time there was no example. Today we have an example, and this is the Acropolis Museum. I do not want to say that everything there is perfect, but in any case international statistics and international reviews show that they are perfectly consistent with the requirements of the modern public for this reason and are very high in all international statistics. It also fully responds to its research and educational role. It does not mean that the National Museum or the Byzantine Museum, because it will become a legal person governed by public law, will lose its educational, social and research role. You simply give him greater power to develop all these initiatives that he has to develop for the good of the community as a whole. I also do not think that a worker, an archaeologist, a engineer, who may not be part of the archaeological service, will find himself with an "a" working relationship or will be a member of the board of directors of one of the five museums, is necessarily lower than those of the archaeological service, which we obviously honour. The conditions are different from the German occupation, and since the 1950s and 1960s, even in the 2000s. We must adapt ourselves. Why? In order to respond to the role that museums must have for society as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u17	Thank you both. Mr Gregoriadis, since you are sitting here for reasons of health care at the headquarters of Greek Solution, I would like to comment on the fact that you have finally found your position. That's the right thing to do. As you know, timely questions without Criston Arsenis aren't made. Let's go to the sixth timely question under number 368/1-2-2021 second cycle of MP B2' Western Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Danger to the monument of Themistoklis and radical alteration of his historic location from the port to the Pieraikos". Mr Arseni, good morning. You have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. You're right, it's right as the Mera25 grows. Madam Minister, if we found out today the monument of Themistoklis would be a central world news. And yet, at the moment, the Ministry actually allows you to lose its natural space at risk for the destruction of the monument itself as if it were an anonymous monument. In other words, we have a global cultural resource and you manage it, as if it were something that is very beneficial. This is obviously the case, in order to serve 'COSCO' in the expansion of the port in Piraikos, a port that would be financed by 'COSCO', to finally find half of it financed through the NRP and the Greek State's money. There has been an obligation since 2012 for the marine survey. We were never informed: What were the results of marine research? Have architectural members been found? Are there buried architectural members in the area you're currently blocking? And are architectural members who could help restore the monument, just as the C.D.'s decision provided, that they should be found and collected? Has it been a seaborne protection study? Is this a huge project that we know from all the port projects that causes corrosion? Is there a coast mechanic study? What will be the next day for the monument of Themistokle? Is there going to be? Visibility study. Your predecessor, Mrs. Myrsini Zorba, had decided that this monument should be visited. Two years later, what is the visitability study you've written? The residents of Piraeus have fled to the courts and won insurance measures. However, it is not possible for the state to abandon the obligation to protect monuments. It's a constitutionally regulated obligation. It is your obligation and we would like clear answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u19	Thank you very much, Mr Arsenis. The Minister for Culture and Sport will answer Mr Styliani Mendoni. Mrs. Mendoni, you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u20	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you, Your Honor, for the question. Let me clarify from the outset that work on the implementation of the project "Expansion of a passenger port of Piraeus" of "PA SA", both in the maritime area and in the Aegean Sea, is carried out under the supervision of the Department of Modern Antiquities and the Department of Antiquities of Piraeus in accordance with the approvals given by the Ministry of Culture. I would like to point out from the outset that the competent Commissioner for Merchant Antiquities, which oversees the work on the bottom, has not found any damage or destruction in the so-called Themistokle. I have to clarify here that dredging has stopped in June 2020 in line with the interim order of the I part of the Council of State as of 11 June 2020. The National Antiquities Committee was informed on June 12th by the Central Port Authority of Piraeus that the other work of the project is permitted, such as the resolution of the bottom outside the dredgings and the rejection of the dredgings. Therefore, the tax advisor still supervised the work allowed on the basis of the provisional order of the Council of State in compliance with the conditions laid down in the decisions of the Ministry of Culture, Decisions 2013, 2018 and 2019, and with its main and sole concern the safeguarding of antiquities and the investigation of the monument. Please refer to your question from 17-12-2020 issued provisional order of the Piraeus Court. I should like to clarify here that the court has ordered the partial cessation of the work of enclosure and requires that the printing and documentation work of the burial monument and the other operations that have been approved under conditions by the Ministry of Culture continue. It should be noted that the interim order does not constitute a definitive crisis regarding the pollution of the Sea region of Pireau, as this issue will be judged when the application for interim measures by citizens. In its amendment under number 104050-17-2006 a joint Ministerial Decision approving the environmental conditions of the investment, development program "PAS SA", published by the Ministry of Energy and Climate Change in 2013, has included the conditions set by the Central Archaeological Board in the adoption of the environmental impact study of the project. In particular, according to the terms five to eight of the 2013 Ministerial Decision, a submarine check of the bottom throughout the project was carried out in October 2017 and before the start of the work, with a submarine televised submarine survey vehicle. Particular emphasis was placed on the marine area near the Tabic Monument of Themistoklis to identify any ancient building material. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. The survey was carried out by supervising the responsibility of the adults and its results were submitted by the Port Authority of Piraeus by the technical exhibition, underwater inspection, a bottom survey in the area west of the Themistocleas, as well as in the south of the Tafis Monument of Themistocleos. No visible single antiquities were detected at the bottom as expected due to sedimentation in the area. Dispersible structures have been identified that may come from the burial monument near the coast and in an area not conducting expansion operations. Furthermore, in application of the term eight of the Ministerial Decision of 2013 and taking into account the findings of the above investigation, the pre-study of the project was prepared and submitted by the PPA in May 2018. The premeditation includes briefly the following work: Clear the monument. Imprint and catch the scattered ancient structures from the seabed and deposit within the sea. Construction of sculpture protection of the monument by wavery. Spectrum and protection marking lighting. Lighting of the burial monument and construction of a viewing point with an information sign. This premeditation was prepared and approved by the Ministry of Culture on 12-10-2018. On 24 May 2019 the approval of the initial development programme and the management study, a master plan, i.e. step (a) and (b) of the Piraeus Port Authority, was issued. According to the decision, the work of highlighting the Constantinople Wall and the Tabular Monument of Themistoklis will be synchronised with the port task of expanding the cruise, including the related excavation work required. Therefore, the relevant studies will be carried out on the basis of the data that come to light during the project and the completion of the research and documentation of the monument by the responsible department of the Ministry of Culture, namely the Department of the National Antiquities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Mendoni. Mr Arseni, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u22	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, you have not responded to the visitability study which is pending.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u23	I've obviously answered!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u24	Yes, your answer was not clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u25	I'll repeat it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u26	Also, for the coastal mechanic study, mention the arm that will be constructed. Because these works have a sweeping effect and not only on the monument of Themistoklis, it is about all the sea walls in the Pieraikos, I really think that from your experience you should understand the reckless approval of this project. It's a project that can scan the coast of the Peeraic. Corresponding works, much smaller, have led to huge corrosions in entire tourist regions in the world and are recorded. Now, you mentioned the possible catch of the structures detected, etc. We have a landscape of this monument, which was right now from the few landscapes that we had left in Piraeus. This is completely altered, with a huge port of the super cruise cruise for super cruise ships, apparently unnecessarily at this juncture, but moving on to the open sea, on the monument of Themistoclis, in practice on the walls. So we want you to be clear: What about the visitability study? What about the naval-mechanical study? Where is the study for the bottom survey accessible? Because, on the basis of the information we receive from the citizens who claim and make this titanic struggle in the courts, this evidence is not accessible. The monument of Themistoklis - I will repeat it - if we discovered it today, it would be global news. If we found out today, it would be a global scandal that, in fact, in front of it, we are building a mega-port. We're cementing and altering the historical landscape as if there were no this monument. Let me just tell you: If it wasn't the monument of Themistokle over there, what else would PPA do in the new port, in the open sea, in the Peeraic? Nothing. This port is built as if there were no such important, global archaeological monument. We invite you to assume your responsibilities, to protect this monument from a project that, not only is unreasonable, not only does the Greek taxpayer finally pay for it, but is degrading the quality of life of the residents without a transport study. Since you also referred to the sinks, the CONTROL tells us that they are toxic, with the cannon that broke with the rust and poured in front of the monument of Themistoclis, with heavy metals eroding the monument itself with waveism. It is a situation that is truly dangerous, unauthorized for this historic site and for every natural environment and for the residents of Piraeus. The courts are right to them. We also demand that the state justifies them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u27	Thank you very much, Mr Arsenis. Mrs. Mendoni, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u28	Thank you very much, Mr President. Apparently, as I was talking, maybe I was talking a little faster than I was supposed to. The premeditation, which concerns the promotion of the monument and its visit, was approved in October 2018. It is therefore in existence and approved. I repeat what I said in my prototype. All the work in the marine area and in the Aegean is carried out under the continuous supervision of the National Antiquities Branch. The officials of the Department of Modern Antiquities are there and they keep track of everything that happens every day. At the same time, the tax collector proceeds to the recording and documentation of the burial monument, while the PPA, under the supervision of the Hellenic Antiquities Agency, prepares the relevant studies to highlight the burial monument, in accordance with the conditions set out in the Ministerial Decisions of 2013, 2018, 2019. In addition, Piraeus and Islands Antiquities Departments are in constant collaboration with the National Antiquities Branch and regularly carry out autopsy and control at work. So we have two departments of the Ministry of Culture and Sport that are there. I must point out that the aim of the Ministry of Culture and Sport - at least today - is the overall emergence of the Pierraean Coast. With regard to the fortification of the ancient Piraeus fort on the road "Themistocleus" in the Piraeus Municipality, a study is already under way with the Municipality of Piraeus. In particular, during the previous year, several conferences were held with the participation of all the relevant officials of the Ministry, the Secretary-General and myself, with the Municipality of Piraeus, the presence of the mayor and the Region of Attica, the presence of the district director and the services of the Ministry have completed the drafting of a document entitled ‘Framework of Principles for the Protection, Recovery and Promotion of the Confederacy Wall on the Sea of Pirea’. Based on the above framework of principles, the municipality, under the supervision of the relevant departments of the Ministry of Culture and Sport, has the relevant study to highlight fortification on the Pieraian Coast. This study concerns the formulation of a programme of hierarchical actions for the preparation of individual studies and for the implementation of projects related to the overall protection, restoration and promotion of the fortification of Piraeus. Our aim is to ensure a vital space for the monument along with the restoration and enhancement of fortification and the refurbishment of the coastal front of Pieraikos, which is a constant request from the Piraeus. In addition, we have systematically and methodically launched the establishment of the Museum of Single Antiquities in the building of SILO, a proposal that had already been put in place since 2010, which partly froze in 2015-2019 and December 2020 was approved by the Museums Council and has already started a study on the restoration of the building. How important this museum is in this particular place of SILO in Piraeus, I think, we don't have to say it. It's self-evident. Therefore, the archaeological service and the Ministry of Culture and Sport systematically monitor all the work carried out by the PPA in the port. It is not underestimated and nothing is destroyed! The services are present. Archaeologists are present. And not just that. Perhaps today we have caught the thread correctly in order to emerge as a whole the very important monument of the Constant wall, which has been discussed for at least the last fifty years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, too. I wish you both well all the time. We proceed to the fourth with number 363/29-1-2021 topical question by SYRIZA MEP - Progressive Alliance Mr.Alexandros Meikopoulou to the Minister of Culture and Sports, on the subject: "An improper exercise of the profession of Football Coaches by Physics Degrees (TEFA)". Mr. Micopulus, good morning. You have two minutes at your disposal for this very good question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr President, and good morning! Minister, I'm going straight to the point without spins. So far, physics graduates with specialty soccer coaches are obliged to attend the Greek Football Federation seminars on payment even though their education from the Greek universities is both sufficient and essential. By Article 48 of Law No.4373/2016, the then government of SYRIZA amended Article 31 of Law No.2725/1999, which refers to the coach's licence and added a twelfth paragraph as follows: ‘Beyond the State's authorisation, the practice of the coach's profession is not subject to the authorisation or other equivalent restriction of another entity’. However, according to the Association of Physical Education graduates in Magnesia, the practice, despite this legislation, which prevails in the field of the exercise of the football coach profession has so far not changed. In reply from your Ministry on 30 March 2020 to a question I had tabled on the subject, you replied that the question of the conditions for the exercise of the profession of football coach by a physics graduate is being examined seriously and is being processed. However, almost a year later, Mr Aygeakis, the issue remains unresolved and even today, on the NCA's website, other issues are mentioned despite the legislative arrangements that have been in force since 2016. Therefore, the question is a very simple one: Do you intend to intervene so that there is no doubt that there is no longer any doubt as to the conditions required for the exercise of the football coach's profession and how will you ensure that the legislation of 2016 is implemented? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr. Micopulus. The Secretary of State for Culture and Sport will answer Mr. Eleftherios Aeggeakis. Mr. Ignace, good morning!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u32	Good morning!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u33	First, don't go back to nine minutes with the coach and apology card, etc. and, secondly, let me inform you that I have informed the soccer coach links and the children of TEFA who are struggling and waiting to hear you. I'm really talking to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u34	So I have two questions to answer. Time will be double, then. One is yours and one of my colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u35	You've answered to me. I have received the same answer that Mr Mikopoulos has received because I have asked the same question and thank you very much for answering, because others are not answering it. So I expect it to be because it cannot make the football coach a person who has a tennis degree and does not have a football coach.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u36	That's right. So that's what we're gonna be allies for.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u37	I'm glad. You have the floor for three minutes, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u38	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since we have taken over the country's governance, we have set as our priority the support of the sporting family and the consolidation, transparency and accountability in the field of sport. We started sport reform and we continue for a step - the necessary reforms in sport to meet the challenges of the 21st century and meet the needs, real needs, of the sporting family. The value of sport reform is even more important and remarkable in the light of the complaints and events that have seen the light of publicity and have reached the prosecutor lately, but continue to come the new facts and new cases. These complaints have deeply shaken the whole society. From the outset we have laid the foundations for dialogue, on the issues of protecting individual rights in sport, the protection of children, the adoption of good practices, the awareness of society, and the development of proposals for the reform and reconstruction of sport. In this context we developed the initiative "Symbolites in the Reform", where marathon discussions take place, about four hours per session, based on Greek sport. So far I have had five long video conferences with representatives of amateur sports clubs from every corner of the country, from all sports to all. I invited more than five thousand representatives of amateur sports clubs who have passed the threshold of the General Secretariat of Sports and our register. I invited over eight hundred representatives, athletes, Olympians, world champions, Paralympians, distinguished athletes, representatives of sports organisations, members of the Olympic Association, the Association of Participants in the Olympic Games, the Greek Paralympic Association, the EIA, the EIA, the International Olympic Truce Centre, the 1st and 2nd grade, and of course members of the "Live Sports". Participation was unprecedented, and that's our difference, you know. You have discussed the factors, we are talking about the basis of the sporting structure. This is a warning difference between the two governments and the different approach we have for sport. Participation was unprecedented and, above all, touching, I would say and outweighed all expectations. Listen! At all five meetings so far - and there will be more to follow until the list of speakers who have declared themselves to speak - has taken up more than four thousand members of the sporting family. There are over a thousand people who have wanted to speak and we continue until the list is exhausted, as I have said before. At the five teleconferencing conferences, more than four hundred members of the sporting family have spoken, and we have received over a thousand eight hundred letters with major and very interesting, I would say, proposals and, of course, ideas that are extremely useful. We are useful because they create a tank of ideas, proposals and initiatives that come from through the base of the sporting building, and we have more than a thousand messages in the chat during the discussions. In the next few days, we will be ready to announce both the immediate steps that we are going to take and the programming for medium and long-term measures to protect individual rights and to deal with phenomena of opacity, abuse and harassment. Ladies and gentlemen, when we started the sport reform, we were strongly criticised, which is something you remember, even in this Chamber from the opposition parties, but I pray to say from some individual Members of the New Democracy. When, on our first legislative initiative, under Law 4639/2019, we set limits on the ages and births of the administrations of sport, we have received many pressures. We have not hesitated to become unpleasant and to go against the acquired assets, if I may, decades, but always under the guidance of our Prime Minister, who closed his ears to the "series" and gave us a clear command, but also support to dare sports reform, which we have done. It is our duty to safeguard the land's athletic legacy, the values, the prestige, the role and, above all, the socialization, the health and mental health of the new generation. The radical reform of sport is not a simple matter, but it is not a question of unresolved. It requires determination, but also a vision. Since taking up my duties, I have set the athlete himself as the center of my own efforts. And, of course, together with the athletes, we set as a priority the "house" of every athlete, who is no more than his club. In the eighteen months we have managed a reform which broke down many years ago, decades I would say, gave voice to athletes with the right to be present but also voting on the boards of the sports federations and we clearly support the healthy, legitimate part of the sporting family. In fact, in the next few days, it will be posted in "Consultation", from Monday to Monday, the new bill that continues this reform of sport by putting another little bit of stone. In particular, the new bill will discuss issues relating to the Committee on Professional Sports, institutional fortification and strengthening of the "ESPTHLA", the Macolin Convention, manipulated games, provisions for harmonising with the FIFA and UEFA holistic study, the FAO elections, the clubs of fans, the organised movement of fans, the restructuring of professional soccer categories - you have also dealt with earlier - the provisions on the rights and obligations of athletes, arrangements for the EEC, for the 'PELOPAS' platform, where they are registered for the first time in cooperation with the CEDE and the Ministry of Interior all the sports facilities throughout the country and, of course, the amendments relating to special sport recognition. In the context of this sport reform that we are working on, and the issue of coaches, for which I will be more detailed in my dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u39	We're waiting. Thank you very much, Minister. Here, Mr. Meikopoulou, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u40	Minister, our difference will not be judged by how many online tables we organise or organise, but by the political decisions, by the actions and initiatives taken by the Ministry of Sports, regarding the relaunch of sport. In spite of what you say, Mr Aygeakis, you are very well aware that there are thousands of athletes in the stimulus regime, thousands of unpaid trainers and on a biopolitic issue most acute and thousands of coaches and the rest of the academy staff who now face terrible economic issues. Therefore, regardless of what you're talking about with the thousands of amateur unions, the image I can get you is not as pomegranate as you think. But let us go back to our issue, Minister. I don't blame you personally. Now you've been in charge for about a year and a half. We are talking about an issue that I live in from my parliamentary experience for at least nine years. I think that at this point it is worth going back on this issue, because as I mentioned, and quite rightly mentioned it, and the President observed it - the seminars of the NCA could be attended and licensed by a coach. What is going on in substance, Mr Ausgeakis? A seminar of a few hours, which is evenly cosmopolitan, is equitable with a university degree with four and five years of study. Therefore, this practice essentially prevents the reintroduction of the labour right of the Football Officer of the TECA. That's our question. In 2013, I had brought this back with a timely question. The answer was the same, i.e. 'We will resolve it, we will try it'. Nothing happened. I'll be self-criticizing too. And in 2015 the government of SYRIZA took over, we discussed it with Mr Vassiliadis and became a legislative initiative. What's the role of the Ministry? Its role is to see if the legislation that forms and works out is applied. 2016 legislation has not been implemented, and today we have actually reached the point of being in a lasting debauching regime. Therefore, by replying to me in five minutes on what your intentions are in relation to the entire sporting activity and by telling me at the end that you will answer your dentistry, I think you are not answering the substance of this matter. It's a simple matter, Mr. Ausgarian. Will you apply the legislation of 2016, or will you let that into the bells for the next government and see if it will be solved? It is unbelievable that there should be graduates today from TEFA, thousands of people - young people most of them at age - who are forced to attend seminars, which have nothing to do with their scientific object. It has much greater added value, Mr. Aygeakis, the degree the graduates receive from the TEFA than attend a seminar from the Greek Football Federation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u41	Which, in fact, lasts for a week, if it lasts. And you quite rightly pointed out that it is not Mr. Aggeakis' fault, but he must correct it. That's what we expect of him. Here you go, Mr. Ausgeakis, you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u42	I will agree with you, Mr Colleague, that things are not nice in sport and you are right. When you didn't do anything all these years, the ball actually came to us, to do a lot. And we'll do it, don't worry. Mostly, keep your energy and your passion, when in the next few weeks we will come here in a bill - and we hope that we will have completed all the process that we have to do on the coaches' issues - and there we will see how courageous you and your party are to say 'bravo' to something right that will be implemented immediately and not after a decade or two, as you have done. Of course, it is all right that you are saying, but you cannot question, Mr Colleague, that for the first time - and keep this in mind, and ask if it has happened in the past, since you are from the province and there you are elected - all the legitimate sports clubs are speaking directly with the political leadership, they have a say, but they also have a right to vote, they have a right to elect the new administrations of the sports federations. We're talking about our country's legitimate active sports clubs. You fought us with the record then. What do you know? You got out of reality, because that's what you're serving. The question of coaches is indeed a very complex issue. And it is complex because there has so far been no real will to resolve the problem that has arisen. In fact, the legislative change you referred to and brought by SYRIZA, under article 48 of Law No4373/2016, not only did it not provide a solution, Mr Colleague, but rather it has made more confusion, as you yourself said, has never been implemented. Why, really? It has been adopted since 2016. Where were you then? The problem is encountered mainly by football coaches. That's right! This is because, while it seems to defend the professional rights of the graduates of the NCAs - the former TECAs - with this specificity, it is, in fact, trying to completely circumvent the permits of coaches granted by the UEFA, following a relevant contract with UEFA. The NCA invokes the self-employed, within which it claims to be part of the training. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] As I have officially announced from the Step of the House, we are moving on to create a register of coaches, and so, among other things, we will be giving a solution to this issue. It is clear that our will is to make a comprehensive, fair regulation of the question of coaches and trainers. We seek consensus and a mutually acceptable but fair solution. Besides, when we all take one step back, in the end, we all win together. It is clear that you have a dominant role - keep this, you are interested in - they have the graduates of the NSAs or former TECAs. And what we should also not question - and I imagine that no one is questioning it in this Chamber - is that, having the first reason for them, there is another reality which we also cannot question, with the dozens of coaches from the other tanks, from the other sources that exist and operate for years now. By the recent law we passed, Law 4726/2020, we planned the establishment of the coach register as early as October. Immediately after the adoption of Law 4726 we opened a cycle of consultation with all stakeholders on this matter. We have been discussing the issue so far by different bodies and associations of Greek-wide coaches, the sports federations and the deans of the five SCA schools of the country, including the Panhellenic Association of Physical Education graduates, which is part of the Association of Physical Education graduates of Magnesia, you are referring to. We have also held three teleconferences. The first was done with all the coaches who responded immediately and we thank them for that. The second, which was about football, was between the Ministry of Sports, the Pan-Hellenic Football Coaches Association and the Pan-Hellenic Association of Physical Education graduates. We are looking for a first convergence. This was also the direction of FIFA and UEFA, as reflected in the holistic study. The third teleconferencing conference was with the academic community, deanists of all five BSE schools, in which football was mainly discussed, because that is where the biggest problem is encountered. Other discussions and consultations will follow before we reach a specific provision that will be implemented immediately. Ladies and gentlemen, we will soon bring a legislative initiative to the vote and debate, as I said just now, which will effectively regulate the issues of coaches and hopefully - God first! - at the end of this month, we will have completed this whole consultation process to be included in the bill which, on Monday, comes into consultation and concerns the issues I mentioned in my prototype. Beyond sport reform, however, we are also developing a campaign - and I would like to inform the House - for the protection of individual rights in sport, the healthy part of sport that its people, the people of the sporting family, athletes, coaches, actors, become a source of inspiration, change, institutional reform, reconstruction of consciences and modernization of society as a whole. They can form a culture of non-violence, strengthen participation and inclusion, shield diversity in and out of sports spaces. The campaign we are organizing covers the whole range of pathogenesity in sport in relation to individual rights, freedoms and respect for personality. We will also cover good administration issues with an emphasis on transparency, accountability and sound management. The aim of the campaign, which we will announce in the next few days, is to sensitize, activate, inform, protect, but also educate citizens, and especially in the new generation for abuses, sports violence, racism, discrimination and abuse, but also, of course, to highlight the good, the true values of sport. Ladies and gentlemen, it is time to put an end to behaviours and practices in which either individually or collectively, we have shown, even implicitly, tolerance. Human value, human rights are values unnegotiable Our sport deserves the brightest future, the cleanest oxygen, the best environment for the next generation of athletes and sports. And it will have it with the sports reform that we are implementing a step-by-step. It is a social requirement, ladies and gentlemen, but it is also an offer to our society. And I'm sure because sport unites, that we'll find a lot of common points to walk together. If not in the whole reform, even in parts of it, you too can contribute, by voting and by supporting the Government's initiatives. You see you didn't make it. If you'd made it, today would be pomegranate. But it's not pomegranate, like you said. So, just put aside partyism and blinkers, see what really can benefit Greek society and sport and come to work together, work together for the good of those points that you really agree, regardless of whether you are partying to say "bravo" or "at last something is done" or "you have the courage and break eggs and you put things in place". We, for our part, are at your disposal to work together on as many points as we agree. And we agree on too much! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u43	Thank you too, Mr Ausgeakis. I wish all the things you say will be done. You always take advantage of my love for sport in time. Have a good day to both of you! We move on to the debate of the first under number 362/29-1-2021 on the second time question by the SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance Mr.Alexis Haritsis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Announcing without a reaction to modernization and the development of the airport "Captain Vasilis Konstantakopoulos" of Kalamata". Mr. Haritsis, good morning! You have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u44	Have a good day, Mr President! Thank you very much. Minister, in recent years a wide-ranging public debate has developed in relation to the Kalamata military airport. I think, however, that we should not lose sight of the fact that the political airport, the airport 'Capetan Vasilis Konstantakopoulou', is actually the main entrance gate for visitors and tourists in the wider region, I would say, not only Kalamata and Messinia, but the whole of the Peloponnese. It is characteristic - I have also provided the official information from your services and your Ministry - that this airport has seen a 400% increase in arrivals over the last decade. Of course, as usual with infrastructure in our country, this increase in traffic revealed the deficits that exist in relation to existing infrastructure and operating structural problems at the airport. It is a characteristic example, among other things, that passengers - especially tourist peak months - remain outdoor until their turn comes to check - in due to the lack of capacity in the passenger waiting room. Furthermore, the extension of the aircraft parking area, the development of auxiliary and other vital support facilities and, of course, the extension of the airport building are essential conditions for the proper operation of the airport and for its further development in the coming years. I would also point out the lack of a air traffic controller's position by the FAA, a position that is now exclusively covered by a member of the Air Force, the neighbouring military airport - I think you will agree with me that this is not an appropriate solution - while the notorious master plan drawn up by the Civil Aviation Service in far-reaching 2002 continues to be anchored in dazzling bureaucratic procedures. In a question I had submitted to you on the same subject in July 2020, you replied via the Civil Aviation Service that the decision to fix a temporary unit of compensation for expropriation beneficiaries is expected to be adopted. It's been seven months since. There has been no start of any infrastructure, except for the formal special application sent by the Legal Council of State. So I ask you, Minister, how does this small provincial airport, which in recent years has managed to become an important one, in a major one - I would say - a regional pillar for tourism and not just a development in the wider region, will it be able in the next few years to play its part? What is the plan and what is the timetable on the part of your Ministry, so that there will be a full upgrade of existing infrastructure and a development of a very important regional airport for our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u45	Thank you very much, Mr. Haritsi. The Minister for Infrastructure and Transport will answer Mr Constantine Karamanlis. Mr. Karamanlis, good morning! You have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, Mr Haritsis, first of all, I would like to agree with you that the wider region of Messinia and Kalamata really has in recent years, the years of the crisis, shows a perspective for tourism. This has been because there has been a man who has decided to invest in his area - and I am referring to Mr Constantakopoulos - and to make a huge investment in the place where he was born. The state's obligation is to help in the context of this investment, which has really changed the entire wider region of Messinia. So we, as a state, have to be side by side and run all the infrastructure projects that need to be done. One of these, of course, is Kalamata airport. So let's go in turn and see where we are. First, on 13 December 2019, we adopted a decision declaring expropriation, with a view to extending aircraft parking spaces, extending the airport building, and moving the fuel park. This expropriation - a numerical figure exists in 2018 - has a budget of around EUR 500 000 and has been determined, as I said, numbered in the EDP. What did we do? We did something that had not been done in the past for this infrastructure project. We went through this expropriation in the provisions of Article 7a. What is the provision of Article 7A? It says in a few words, in order for all of us to understand it and those who are following us, that, in large projects of national importance, these expropriations go through by decision of the Ministerial Council, in order to avoid and earn time, because as we all know, expropriations in Greece to such infrastructures are usually involved in demonstrable processes. Thirdly, pursuant to 7A, we appealed to the competent court - this is the procedure - in order to allow immediate delivery and to determine the payment of compensation. Fourthly, by our decision in May 2020, we approved the correction of the real estate diagram and the land register, on 16 June 2020, we proceeded to the planned transcription of expropriation, and I inform you that the trial was set for 7 December 2020, but because of COVID, due to the pandemic, it was postponed and redefined for 1 March, that is to say, three weeks from today. It can therefore be seen that all the measures envisaged despite pandemic have been done on our part. We have even chosen, Mr Haritsis, the 7A process to make another commitment in a short time, and this has not been done, to inform the House, only for the Calamata airport, but also for other important projects. In my dentistry, I will tell you and what the budget for the projects will be after the expropriations have been completed. As you well know, construction will start after the expropriation process is completed and we will enter a competitive process. And that is an issue that we are prepared to discuss. I would remind you, Mr Haritsis, that the issue of whether or not the airport is granted or not is a matter for the supranational community. Because the regional airports, your government had provided for and entered the superstate. We then had a lot of objections, but they are not the present one. I would like to assure you and the citizens of Messinia that the airport of Kalamata is in the immediate priorities of the Ministry of Infrastructure and its upgrading projects, which I will describe later on one - one, are projects that will progress quickly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Haritsi, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u48	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Obviously there is no objection to the 7A process, which is even - I think it is important for such a project to proceed with the speeding up process. We know very well that expropriations have been a time-consuming process for the Greek public for many years. I am glad you recognised - you have actually said - that in 2018 we finally managed to achieve this project a number of things from the Public Investment Programme, that is to say, that the procedures in question should be integrated and that it should therefore be possible to proceed. But what I want to point out is that I really think we have no more time to lose. I understand the delays that may have occurred because of the coronary pandemic and the judicial decisions. This evades, if you like, and your own potential as a ministry. However, I think we need to move on very quickly from now on and the Ministry must set out very clear timetables for how we are going to proceed with the projects that we have discussed. Also, I would remind you that in a statement by the same Prime Minister, during his visit to Kalamata in October 2019, he had talked about this airport, saying that it is the country's fastest-growing regional airport and actually said that there would be procedures to upgrade this airport, without waiting for that airport to be followed for the other twenty-two regional airports. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth We are now in February 2021, and I think that things and work on the part of the Ministry should have matured, so that we have a clear timetable and a plan, which will define the procedures from now on, I do not want to stay in the past, on how we can use this modem, if you like, which has been created for this airport in recent years, which, as you have said, is rapidly growing. Don't waste any more time. If I may, I would like to make one final comment, because you spoke of the ten-year crisis. However, the region has been able to develop, especially tourists, with the very important investments that have been made in our region and from the side of 'COSTA NAVARINO' and other investments that have been made in this region lately. Let us not forget, however, that we are again in crisis with the horn pandemic. When we come out of this crisis, competition - and internationally - will be too strong for all countries to be able - and especially countries that are competitive with Greece in terms of tourism - to recover lost market shares. It is therefore very important that we have invested in basic infrastructure in time so that we can withstand this competition. I repeat, we cannot 'eat from the ready', we cannot consider what we have achieved in tourism in previous years. We need these investments to proceed quickly, we need to be ready and shielded against the new conditions, the new reality that the coronary pandemic will shape and that will follow us for many years. So we insist - and believe me, local society is very concerned about it all this time - that projects at the airport of Kalamata "Captain Vassilis Konstantakopoulos". And of course, because you have referred to infrastructure projects as a whole for the region, I have to tell you - and you know that very well, I do not need to tell you - that together with this project is linked to the great road project of the region, the Kalamata - Rizzomylos - Pylos - Methoni, for which we also expect to see how programming is progressing from your Ministry, to finally implement this multitude of work. I would therefore inform you, Minister, that the next time-consuming question which I will present to you in a short time will be precisely for these two key projects, which will give a very great boost to our region. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u49	Thank you. Minister, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u50	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Haritsis, may I answer the question of whether there is a delay or not. In our view - and I will give you the information - there is no slight delay, because the case was on 7 December 2020. Today we have February. Therefore, the trial was done in three weeks. We have managed to speed up these procedures precisely because the government has decided on the specific infrastructure project to pass the expropriations from the Ministerial Council, which will allow me to say that the previous government had not done. But let's go see what we're going to do, because this controversy doesn't make any sense. What makes sense is to see what we're going to do at Kalamata airport. So at Kalamata airport, as you well know, Mr Haritsis, as you are elected and active in the wider area, we are talking about extending and reorganising the airport building by two and a half thousand square metres, extending the other two and a half thousand square meters, upgrading and maintenance of the existing airport building - the technical study of the project has already been prepared and approved by the Civil Aviation Service - extension of the aircraft parking floor by thirty-two thousand square meters, upgrading the runway and railroad, modernising the electronic network and light-signalling system, and following the control tower. The budget is estimated to be, according to the studies carried out by the PSC, from EUR 60 million to EUR 80 million. So we're talking about a very big upgrade project and I think this project really will give a great breath. We are now moving on to the issue you have raised in your second question and which is a very important issue. As you know, the airport of Kalamata belongs to the Air Force, the 120 Air Training Wing is located, and even the airport of Kalamata is being upgraded as a military airport because it is being supervised by other areas. What I can tell you is that at the moment air traffic control services are provided exclusively by the Air Force. You are aware of this, that the airport is still described in the aeronautical information manual as military. Question: Is this a problem in Civil Aviation? In our view, no, and I will tell you why. Because Chania Airport, which belongs to "FRAPORT" all the control tower and all the landing and take-off process are carried out by military personnel. Now if and as long as there is a need to strengthen the control tower with other air traffic controllers here we are to see it. In conclusion, Mr President, I should like to say a few words about the Kalamata - Rizzomylos section. I think this is also a project that had been launched under the PPP procedure in 2018. You know very well that it was a project that had created many political rivalries and controversies among many local executives, mayors. I think now we've all ended up not to change any carving, going ahead with the work as planned. But what we are doing - and we will talk about it, Mr Harissis, and I am very happy to accept your question and answer it about what we have done so far - is that we are developing studies that were not mature, because there has been a slight delay I would say since 1918 and then in the maturation of the studies. The PPP projects are works that you can start without full-time study, but there needs to be some premeditated projects to start. I also want to tell you that we are seeing the question of Pylos perimeter because it was not within the PPP and we are trying with an optional process to find a solution to this problem, which concerns local society. It is something that we will be looking at on and look at with great care, because we understand that this project, which is the road that will actually give the region another perspective in combination with the airport, gives the wider region a real chance. As you know, we belong to a party that we are in favour of privatisation. I am pleased that Mr Haritsis is one of the executives I think he also secretly - secretly it is in favour of privatization, of the worded ones I would say. We are prepared to discuss and use the airport. Here, let me tell you that these airports belong to the Supreme Court. I am sorry to say that the excess has fallen below the bar on the issues of the twenty-three airports, but I think that you too, Mr Haritsis, will agree that although there is a proposal for further use of the airport here in Parliament to discuss it with an open mind to see what we can do for the sake of the region. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Minister. We continue with the fifth under the number 370/1-2-2021 topical question of the second question of the Member of Parliament, Aetolokarnania, of the Movement of Change Mr. Dimitrios Konstantopoulos to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Application of proportional tolls on the Ionian road and a reduction of the toll toll on the bridge "Carilaos Trikoupis" (Rios-Antiri)". Mr. Constantopoulos, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u52	Minister, in view of the state's continuity and the reasoning of the continuity of the governments, it has been three years since I personally brought to Parliament to discuss the issue of analogue tolls and the reduction of the cost of crossing the 'Chrilaos Trikoupis' bridge and there is still no development. In 2018, Minister, the international tender for the award of the contract was conducted. The aim is to introduce analogue charges and satellite technology, with visual recognition on all the highways in the country. In 2019, the government was changing and we expected initiatives from the new government. However, two years after and after the decision of the S.E.T.E., the competition was cancelled. With your statements then, I would remind you, you have announced the opening of a new competition. Today, since January 1, 2011, the analogue charge is applied to Olympia, but not to the Ionian Road, not to the other motorways that I would say, gave a new breath both in western Greece, but also a safe road network for all of Greece, whether it is PATHE, Egnatia, Olympia Street, etc. For the Ionian Road I would like to say that it is the motorway that connects Western Greece, Olympia and Egnatia with a safe road. And yet, the Ministry has not yet given a solution to the constant demand of society, but also of Greek taxpayers for the charges according to their distance, to rationalise toll charges, i.e. to pay the taxpayer the money according to the kilometres it travels, according to the roads. There is no information about whether and when it will be implemented in the end, nor about whether there is or is there any other planning for a new competition that also concerns the whole of the country's motorways. Also, there is no information about the actions of the Ministry - if there are - the reduction of the cost of crossing the bridge "Charila Trikoupis", which was built to unite Western Greece and constitute a lever for development and not, of course, an obstacle to its exact tolls. I have addressed, Minister, additional time-consuming questions from my previous parliamentary term, as I have said. After all, Mr Spirtzis, your predecessor, then, had replied that a distinct renegotiation of the terms and the concessions is required, namely the tariff policy of the bridge. However, we have not received a reply until today. The Minister simply said that the government would be seized. Since then, nothing. Since then, this seems to have been frozen from the Ministry. Indeed, I would say that the high horizontal charge on the tolls of the bridge is a huge problem both for Greek taxpayers and for some local communities. And this is where the ministry ought to give a solution so that the bridge is not deterrent. After that, Minister, I would like to ask you the following question. Will you implement the analogue toll system on the Ionian Road? What if so, in what way and in what specific timetable? Secondly, have you taken steps to renegotiate the terms of the 'Harila Trikoupis' bridge, in order to reduce toll costs for the benefit of Greek citizens and Greek taxpayers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr Constantopoulos. The Minister for Infrastructure and Transport will answer Mr Constantine Karamanlis. Minister, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, let's start with an admission. If a government did something about what I call toll streamlining and correcting any injustices, you will allow me to say that this is the current New Democracy government and I am explaining. We are, on the one hand, the ones who have acted on toll interoperability, that is, with a transponder being able to go on all five motorways, giving a solution to a seemingly small problem, but, essentially, it is important, I would say the daily lives of all citizens and users of these roads. And so, as of 4 November 2020, drivers can now go through all tolls with a transponder. And then one month later, we proceeded to the next step. What was the next step? That of the kilometre charge, according to which drivers will only be charged for the section of the road they travel, as is done throughout the civilised world. We have therefore been committed to charging tolls in order to correct an issue that the citizens have been putting forward for a long time. And so we started implementing the new hybrid system in Olympia. Why did we start, Mr. Colleague, from Olympia Street? Because this was planned at the reset, i.e. the reopening of the concession contract for the Olympian Road, which was made by the Government of Samara - Venizelos in 2013. At that time, the analogue toll charged for the Olympian road had been planned. With regard to the rest of the motorways, as you well know, the SYRIZA Government launched in 2017 an international competition for electronic tolls, a competition, I would say, "Geography", at a huge cost, at a budget that was really unrealistic. As you are right to say in your question, the S.H.E.S.S.S.S.'s Suspension Committee. By Decision 276/2019 it annulled this competition, which, as I said, was for a system which, in fact, had not been tested almost anywhere in Europe. Now let's go and say what we're doing. We are going on and in a very short time this electronic toll competition will be ready. But be careful. In order for this competition to be carried out, we must indeed come in touch with the banks and the concessionaires, so that we can do this commitment. And that will be with a negotiation. Now I come to the second part of your question about the bridge 'Harilaos Trikoupis'. Let me tell you that the institutional framework of this project, the concession contracts, were made by the PASOK government in 1996. So what does the contract signed at that time by the government with VINCI, where is the concessionaire? It says that the Greek State also grants the right to impose and collect tolls, fees, but that the financial model was agreed. So we, as a Greek State in 1996, went to the private sector and told him that "you have the right to put the price you want". The same was done in another concession contract, that of the Attica Road. I would remind the House here, Mr President, and my dear colleagues that on the Attica road, which were ready to make toll increases in the first month we were government, while we had no way of reacting, we said that we cannot accept this, and the concessionaire did back and did not increase tolls, while he was a contractual right. In other words, without public approval, he could go and make a toll increase on the Attica Road. And theoretically, he can now do it. These contracts, my dear colleague, were not made by the New Democracy Government, but by the PASOK Government. Nevertheless, I understand that many years have passed and we need to see whether the proportionate charge must be implemented. And it's going to happen with the contest we're having. Also, let me tell you that also with E65, the northern part that is being done, there is a competitive road now in relation to the bridge "Harila Trikoupis". Therefore, several users of this road, either from Metsovo or from Yannina, have the possibility of using another alternative, which may be cheaper, shorter and environmentally better. In my dentistry I would be very happy to answer and any other question you may have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u55	Thank you very much, Mr Karamanlis. Mr. Constantopoulos, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u56	Minister, it is indeed a good thing that you are talking about interoperability with an e-pass instead of five. As far as the bridge is concerned, since we said that there is a continuation of the state, there is indeed great work on PASOK, and that is no question whatsoever, even when some people were talking about mammals. Indeed, the bridge was designed in PASOK and completed in PASOK. And that's not what anyone's questioning. Minister, when this contract was signed there was a condition. What did that term say? That after ten years of operation of the bridge the Greek State and the consortium can renegotiate the cost of transit, renegotiate the toll, which was not done. It's been ten years in 2014. The project was given to the Greek taxpayers in 2004. In 2014 this decade passed. Therefore, under the contract, the Government, the Ministry and the consortium can essentially sit at the table for the renegotiation of tolls, so that this work can be a lever for growth, as I said before, and be to the disposal and use of Greek taxpayers. It is not possible, Minister, to pay 27 euros to go to work and return to his home, either from Achaea to Achaia or from Achaia to Aato-Carnania, as well as Greek taxpayers to pay excessively high toll costs. There are many workers between Aetolokarnania and Achaea who are forced daily to move from one county to another and pay this great amount, I would even say, in disparity with their wages. So this matter was brought to the House in 2015 twice before the government of Mr. Tsipras and comes back today after four and five years. You need to see it. And since the economic crisis continues and pandemic is a new obstacle, you should see it immediately. After all, we do not live in 2004 when the project was going into operation. Living conditions have changed and it is not possible for such a great work to be practically set aside in set-aside. It is not possible for the cost of an IX from Patras to Athens to be 11.5 euros, for Athens - Kalamata 13.5 euros, for the Attiki Street 2.8 euros, for the 3 euros Activos - Preveza 3 euros, for Athens - Thessaloniki 31 euros and for the Rios - Antiririou bridge to have the highest cost of passing 13.5 euros. It is therefore the duty of the Ministry to find solutions and to go to the consultation of the consortium to reduce costs. As far as tolls are concerned, Mr Minister, you have indeed started positively and we see it and it is important and we welcome it. The important thing is, of course, to reduce the cost of tolls paid by the Greek taxpayer. It can't be from Nafpatos to go to Mesolonghi and go back to Nafpatos to pay 6 euros when he pays 1.2 euros in proportion. It can't be from Agrinio to go to oregano, in a municipality, to pay 7 euros, when the analog tolls would pay 0.80 euros. Imagine, then, the disparity. Also, it should be done directly on the Ionian Road and should receive the proportionality of tolls, because otherwise two speeds are created in the Region of Western Greece, i.e. on the Olympia Road and Ionian Road. Some benefit from the hybrid system, as you said, Olympia Road system and some are doomed to pay an extremely high cost on the Ionian Road, as well as across the bridge. In other words, from Rio to Preveza, someone pays 13.5 euros on the Rio-Antiri bridge, 2.95 euros in Clokova, 3.5 euros in Angelokastro and 3 euros in the Actio-Preveza submarine tunnel. The total will pay EUR 22.95 to travel less than a hundred kilometres. And to go from Athens to Thessaloniki, which is five hundred kilometers, he pays 30,65 euros. The injustice that is being done for western Greece, Mr Minister, and especially for my country, the county that I am elected, Ioannina, and the continent. That is why you need to find solutions immediately and to prevail social justice. Large works, titanium works, such as the bridge and the Ionian Road, should be given for the use of the Greek taxpayer at the price that the Greek taxpayer can actually raise the burden and pay. One more thing, Minister. Because you are a young man and I know that you are running them, you also run the issue of the proportionality of the motorways in the country, and in particular of reducing the cost of crossing the bridge. We expect a solution from you and hope that we will have it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr. Constantopoulos. Minister, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u58	Thank you very much, Mr President. To correct my dear colleague and to say that the design of the bridge's work was initiated by the Mitsotakis Government in 1990-1993 and even recognized this - and in honour - the Minister, Mr Laliotis, when he made the foundation of the work on the government of Simitis, in which he called - which was rare for the political customs of the time - all the former Ministers of IPHOTOE, among them Stefanos Manos and Achilles Karamanlis and all the former ministers who had also put their port to do this really great work. Why do you see, my dear fellow Member, big projects do not belong to parties. They don't belong to PASOK. Maybe you should understand that once in PASOK. They belong to all Greek citizens. Others design them, others auction them, and others inaugurate them. So are the big plays, what do we do? Especially flagship works, which take many years to mature the studies, to be auctioned, implemented and constructed. So this is a reality that we once have to be a little younger than the older ones to recognise and not to enter into these conflicts. But I will agree with you. I will agree that the issue of kilometric charges, which is a constant request from all users, is something, and I want to be honest, particularly difficult. Because both the reset, the renegotiation of the concessions in 2013, but - unfortunately - the very problematic renegotiation made by SYRIZA in 2016 and 2017 have actually bound the hands of the public back. What does this competition mean to make for electronic tolls? It means something very simple, we will not see tails because we will not have front toll stations, we will have side roads. It will stop, in other words, another absurdity of the Greek state on the road when we travel we must stop either pay the toll or with our transponder. Therefore, this competition, as I told you, will be very soon in the air and there will be an attempt to rationalise. But because it is nice to say great and fine words, we must at least once in this Chamber say things by their name. Everywhere in the world, users are charged, because individuals who have come and built these roads support them and operate them. See what the state of Egnatia, where for years the political system has reacted to its concession, and see what the state of the Olympian road is. I would also say to you, Mr President, that toll charges in Greece, which are 0.63 minutes, are a lower charge than the average in Europe. There are some problems, however, on other roads and we need to see them and talk about them. But the concession, my dear fellow Member, of 1996 for the bridge is that it leaves little room for manoeuvre. I don't want to blame anyone. I'm just saying it was the first concessions, both from the Attica Road and the bridge, made by the then government. In fact, the terms of that contract are terms for private individuals. Those who are legal in this Chamber know that in order to make any changes to a concession, it must be agreed between the two parties and the state law must also be made. So we are trying to resolve these issues. I am pleased that you recognize that important work has been done on interoperability and the Olympian road. We move on so that all the users of the main roads can have what all the civilised world of Europe has, called a milestone, therefore a worded charge. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u59	Thank you too, Minister. We continue with our second question under number 359/28-1-2021 of the first cycle, as well as the Member of the Aetolokarnania Parliamentary of the Change Movement Mr.Dimitrios Konstantopoulos to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "To provide a direct solution to the work of refreshing the Mornos plains." Mr Constantopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the construction of open-air canal networks, part of which is the renovation of the Mornos, is an open wound to the society of the Doria and Naples. So let me remind you that this project was designed to compensate for the reduction of irrigation water due to the creation of the Morno dam in 1981, and I would even say here, Minister, it has evolved into two phases. The first phase was completed in 1990. The second started in 2006 with a timetable for its completion in 2011. However, construction proceeded with problems, with malices and many, but many, imperfections. In March 2011, TWG was given a Mornos plain by administrative receipt for use only of some parts of the project. For example, the irrigational canals, which were malicious, were not delivered. So the irrigation of the plain could not work even trial, I would say. And while someone would expect the state mobilisation of the Ministry in this direction of integration towards the problems, there was inertia and reassurance without substantial solutions. And I'm talking over time about all the governments. In 2015, therefore, the TWO growers of the plain of Mornos desperately threatened by this stagnation and improper operation of the Ministry, requested the participation of the Region of Central Greece, and this, in order to be able to continue the project. Therefore, the Region of Central Greece carried out a study in the light of the problems and submitted a proposal for the construction of a closed irrigation project and a closed irrigation network. I will also present the relevant technical reports to you here. Yes, Minister, in 2017 the Ministry approved the technical report and I will also present to you the relevant document of the Ministry that it accepts. However, since then, I would say, there has been no progress, but no progress, no action on the part of the Ministry, to receive the project, of course, and to proceed with the regional project according to the study. There is no care to complete the remaining parts of this project, no interest in farmers, the owners of the land, I would say, in a hostage situation, Mr President. These people, Minister, under the responsibility of the public, neither can they exploit their assets nor receive compensation for ten years. In fact, today, I'd say, they're in despair. I will also present you with a statement of protest to the situation of these citizens, these Greek taxpayers who have been left to their fate and destiny. I will also present to you a document which has sent the Mornos TWG to the Ministry and finally calls for a solution. To conclude, Minister, I ask you: When does the Ministry finally believe that this Babylonian work can be completed? When can the refreshing work of the Mornos be completed? And secondly and importantly, and keep it, when compensation will be granted to farmers who have not even received 1 euro since 2011. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Mr. Constantopoulos. The State Secretary for Rural Development and Food will answer Mr. Fontaine Arabaji. Seraeus is gone, Seraio is here, Seraeus presides. Good morning, Mrs. Undersecretary. You have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u62	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear colleague, indeed the Open Mining Network of the Fokida Prefecture is a multitude of work that counts almost two decades. I have before me the suggestion of the relevant technical and rural infrastructure directorate of our Ministry and, in order not to abuse time, I am actually going. The contract for this project was signed, as you know, in 2006. By decision of the three-member committee of the Piraeus Legal Council, but also by judicial decision, it has been dissolved by 30-3-2013. I note that the completion site was thirty months, when the contract was signed. By decision of the Minister for Rural Development and Food in 2017, Mr. Apostle, the dismantling of the contract from 2-3-2006 takes precedence over the post of attestation of the completion of the project in question. In fact, with another decision by the Minister in 2018, again by Mr. Apostleos, the postponement of the temporary receipt of the project, for which you are telling us, and the approval of the relevant receipt protocol, has not been ensured because the conditions for carrying out this temporary reception by the owner of the project, in accordance with the provisions of Article 73(4) of Law No.3669/2008, have not been met and, of course, a special order of the directorate has been issued to restore the project’s flaws. In order to make the new work to be auctioned operational, as the Region of Central Greece has expressed interest, the existing project should be temporarily and definitively received by the owner of the project and delivered to the user, as the new project that the region wants, namely the tank, the three pumping stations and the central canal, uses large parts of that project. To conclude, therefore, any receipt of it, because there is a dissolution of the contract on the basis of a judicial decision, should be cleared up of the contractor's part of the work that presents problems as a result of the contractor's mismanagement or because of the total lack of maintenance by the user - you know who the user is - which has been accepted administratively for the user, the TWG. The above recording process is multi-level and definitely requires monitoring and recording, to be serious, by an experienced group of scholars. The relevant directorate of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food is planning, on the basis of the existing provisions, to finally see some light on what we have received - a technical consultant to clarify the above issues and to allow for the final receipt of the whole project. This record will help to prepare a study of the problem areas of the project in need of rehabilitation, so that part of what will be used in the region's new contraction is - what else? - functional. As the agency informs me, and I know myself personally, in September 2020, the step taken by our Ministry with the then competent State Secretary, Mr Skreka, had visited the region. During the visit, the study carried out by the Region of Central Greece, linked to the study to restore the problem areas of the existing project, had been a single study aimed at joining one of the programs and financial instruments that, as you know, this government is hunting in every way. With this proposal, according to the Agency, any needs relating to compensation, reforestation, levelling, systemisation and all these necessary sub-projects could be financed in order to ensure that compensation is also available. This proposal - you will be well aware of it as coming from the region - has been rejected by local bodies. I would remind you, by the way, that at least during the initial stage of project construction there were, you know, strong reactions. As far as the issue of compensation for the affected producers is concerned, in fact the producers of the standing, you will allow me to refer to his second language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u63	Thank you very much, Mrs. Arabaji. Mr. Constantopoulos, you have three minutes too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u64	Indeed, Mr President, the Serres are here to give answers today and we are waiting for them, especially the Aetolian carnages. Minister, I have listened with particular attention to you, and I would like to remind you that the reafforestation project of the Mornos is a co-financed project, i.e. with European resources, and has so far cost more than EUR 18 million. What we see today, Minister, is what? His credit from all the governments to date, and indeed in the hostage of all Greek taxpayers and the citizens of the Doria and Napathias, who have their properties there on set-aside. So we see despair with responsibility, as I have said, of all governments until now and of course the Ministry of Rural Development's responsibilities. Yes, Madam Minister, as you have mentioned, malicious artisanals are too many. Problems and mistreats had already been identified since the construction of any project in 2010. They remain, however, just as they were with their construction, i.e. 11 years after 2010, we remain at the same point as problems such as lack of irrigation, so inability to cultivate the plain and farms, inability to access the land, huge flood risk, incomplete drainage, water and resources, and of course a burden on the environment. Madam Minister, the requirement of all owners, Greek taxpayers, the people of the region: an end to this adventure must be made, an end to this stagnation. It should be stressed here that, in fact, the Region of Central Greece had guaranteed 5m euros, today around 7m euros, to build a closed irrigation network, as well as other individual projects. So it remains for the Ministry to do what is required and run the procedures, so that there are no further delays. Let me remind you that a year ago I had raised this subject with a written question. I mean, I had the problem of the refreshing of the Morno. But I didn't get one, but no answer. That's why I'm coming back today. In September 2020, as you said, the Ministry and the Region made an autopsy in the project. Since then, we haven't had any briefings, if anything, not to say progress. We arrived in February 2011 and we therefore ask you to tell us a specific timetable for the next steps of the project. We also expect you to tell us how the malicious work will be handled in the rest of the work that is essential. I am referring, in other words, to the repair of the tank, which today has a huge water leak, the repair of the drainage network and the improvement of the rural roads. I would say that we need a broom contractor with all these work that will put an end to this problem. I conclude with the main problem of the compensation you will answer in your dentistry. Minister, the wrath and indignation of all the citizens of the region, who have their land there on a set-aside, as I said, in hostage, is enormous and indeed, in the midst of the economic crisis and the pandemic, which are coming to add other problems. In particular, these farmers in the Mornos plain have huge questions and, in fact, their poorness is spreading because the state is not interested in them and why they cannot cultivate their land and exploit their property. These are questions that need answers. There are cases where farmers do not even have access to their farms. Let's try sometime to get into the position of these people. They see their properties devastated. And we're supposed to have a project that would end in 2010. That is why we must now restart a process in this direction so that a solution can be found. By that time, they were budgeted to receive compensation for a certain amount of money. This process stopped, as I said, in 2011. The project, however, did not finish or work and since 2011 they have not even received EUR 1. Every year, of course, they supplement their applications, but a voice of oxen in the wilderness. Every year, what do they get? A negative answer. Already the legal department of the Region of Central Greece has consulted them for compensation until the final receipt of the project, which, however, has not been paid. I'd say here, run the procedure to pay compensation to these happier owners. The responsibility now lies with the public and with the Ministry of Rural Development and Food as, of course, responsible for carrying out the project. And what we ask of you today is the commitment to pay compensation and to pay tribute to the beneficiaries and the work of reafforestation of the Mornos to complete and stop being a "bridge of Arta". Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u65	Thank you very much, Mr. Constantopoulos. Mrs. Arabatzis, you have three minutes at your disposal for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr President. My dear colleague, I imagine, because you are objectively speaking speaking, in the context of your opposition control, you will recognize that the depreciation you referred to for the journey of the previous governments in this work does not obviously concern this government, which I think has shown reflexively. You referred yourself to the visit by the Minister, now the environment, former State Secretary, Skreka in the region. I think that in my prototype I raised the technical issues and the technical answers that the relevant department of our Ministry provides. You are now talking to a Member of Parliament from an entirely rural region, so I can understand, Mr President, and the anxiety of the producers when they are in such conditions and often their anger and anger. Now, however, we have to inform the National Representation - and I imagine you are also confirming it - that the specific production from 2006 that started the project until 2011 was then, as you know, changed the process and that the approval of the specific compensation granted to the standing crop, the so-called 'cut' - was normally and uninterruptedly done and the compensation paid was uninterruptedly in some eight thousand acres. Since 2011, and from now on, the following is happening, according to the papers I always consult when we have to give an answer: For 2013 and 2014, therefore, according to the minutes of the Regional Advisory Council, the most important region, the compensation - it says - is not to be given horizontally, but only to those who have the right to prove that their fields are in the occupied areas. The result of this is that the conditions for at least all farmers are not met and that payments cannot be made. Here I have the practical 2013 and the practical 2014. It is at the service of the Minutes - I will testify to them - and, of course, to yours. In 2017, and following the negative opinions of that regional council, the Council itself asks, as it says: 'Catche, child, are we not right? Are we in the right direction?' from the regional legal department to give an opinion as to whether he has actually delivered the same opinion correctly, effectively denying all the compensation in the past. Therefore, the legal department of the region comes in and substantially reiterates the position of the Regional Advisory Council by making the demonstration of the damage as a condition of compensation. I have here and here the relevant decision, which I shall also be tabling on the Minutes. And, of course, these minutes on the relevant requests at any time from the head of the DAG, at any time from the country's counter-region, were done and re-emerged. Now, Mr President, if, on the basis of what our service says, the region approves the standing harvest, it approves it as it has competence - I do not doubt that - then the Ministry will probably do the search for resources from some of the well-known financial opportunities available. Let us now say a little bit about the specific work and the interest you have shown, and I would like to say a few words about the tabling of the country's irrigation map, which the Ministry and the State Secretary responsible, Mr Skrekas, have actually carried out, of course, on the initiative and strategy of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis. I believe, Mr President, that you are crippling open doors with your question and I shall say two doors, indeed. One is to do with the new Minister for Rural Development and Food, which is Aetolokarna, as you know, your compatriot, Mr Spilios Levanos, and I am sure, like all the residents of the region, that he has at least the same, not to say more, interesting to go on with all the other necessary projects of the region and, of course, the whole country. So his presence at the Ministry obviously works as a safety net even for those who might be more skeptical or sceptical in your area - why as a safety net? - to provide the best possible legal and financial treatment to the issue. The second door, if you wish, is the insurance policy to which I have referred and is the National Plan for the Reconstruction of Agricultural Infrastructure drawn up by our Ministry - I referred earlier to the State Secretary - the so-called RAS. In fact, part of these projects, for which a maturity and potential interest of investors has been recorded, is intended to be financed from the resources of the Recovery Fund, with a view, of course, to leverage the relevant funds, as you can see, under public and private contracts, the Arctic booklets called PPPs. So it is the first time, not after years, but after decades, I would say, and I respect to say this, that the Greek state is preparing thoroughly and documented and will submit to the Recovery Fund, so obviously, as you can see, in a higher European approval body, a new generation of modern irrigation works. And when I say modern projects, I mean real projects with a new perception, projects where there will be energy savings mainly, but not exclusively with the use of photovoltaics and closed networks to reduce losses. If I am not mistaken, and correct me, the original project of this project was for closed networks and there was a protest from the local society. But then they said they wanted open networks. I'm doing good, I guess. Good. There will also be smart meters and other management and water saving systems. We have too much room for manoeuvre in the management of water resources. I shall refer to the last of the many visits by Prime Minister Mitsotakis to Thessaly.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u67	And finish, please, Mrs. Arabaji.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u68	I shall conclude, Mr President. We need to better manage water, we need to involve renewable energy in the process of pumping, but also in the use of water, reducing the overall footprint, while the farmer will have the final benefit in reducing production costs. So I conclude by saying that your question is, of course, included in a framework of creative and justified anxiety for your particular homeland. However, I can assure you that we will exhaust all possibilities for the project, after years of committing and real failures by the SYRIZA - ANEL government that preceded it. I would remind Mr Apostle’s statements in 2017: “The project will enter the Greek Ministry of Foreign Affairs for 2018, because the money for 2017 has been exhausted. In fact, this project will be prioritised and it is certain that it will be completed within 2018.’ We have 2021 and, as you say, it is not complete. I do not know if there was parliamentary scrutiny on your part. Also, I remind you of Mr. Arahovitis' statements on November 4, 2018: “The money for the completion of the project is committed and the project will be completed”. So, from these tenth declarations, we come with plan, modesty and appallingly and say that our Ministry, as well as the new Deputy Minister of State, Mr Economou, will exhaust all legal and economic possibilities to deal with this project that you well described as the 'Arta bridge'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Mrs. Arabaji. Next is the third with number 352/25-1-2021, a top-level question by H' Vice-President of Parliament and MP B3' South Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr Sophia Sakorafas to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Taking back on the serious problem of dispersal between mutated coronary and mink." Mrs. Sakorafa, good morning, you have two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u70	Good morning, Mr President, and thank you very much. Madam Minister, my question concerns a serious issue that we hope will not be dangerous. These are the proven coronary mutations in the mink and the risk of spreading them to humans. The problem exists in Greece since November and was officially confirmed in December by the EBRD. The treatment was rather incomplete and rough, I'd say. There has been massive killing only in the first infected unit and it is unknown what happened with the adolescence products. However, there was a serious delay in informing the World Organisation for Animal Health to detect mutation and confirming the emerging disease. Based on scientific data on the safest treatment, it is proposed that animals be killed on infected farms, but also on their neighbours at a sufficient distance, the exhumation and incineration of dead animals and the incineration of all skins. In my question, I said that Greece has confirmed a mutation and dispersal in mink and in people dealing with their rearing at fifteen farms in western Macedonia, while the mutant Y453F was detected in at least five cases in humans. Already, today’s evidence says that out of the twenty - nine units that were tested as suspects due to symptoms or cases in animals or humans, twenty - one were found. The announcement says about 20. There is scientific uncertainty about many aspects of the new clone, Minister, and research is, of course, developing. However, it is a risk that the mutations of the virus will have an impact on human ability to produce antibodies, on re-infections, and on vaccine effectiveness. On 12-1-2021 it was officially announced on the basis of evidence from the Institute of Medical Research of the Academy of Athens, that mutated coronary strains were identified in a hundred twenty positive specimens of residents in Kozani, Grevena and Kastoria, farming areas. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So the dispersion already exists and continues. This means that health protection policy has not been implemented. So I ask this: is there a question of responsibility for this misdemeanour? But above all, what specific measures will the government implement to deal with the situation? I will conclude by saying that we consider that all health protection measures should also be accompanied by the direct and complete support of the state to the affected professionals in the area. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u71	Thank you too, Mrs Sacorafa for the time. The State Secretary for Rural Development and Food will answer Mr. Fontaine Arabaji. Here, Mrs. Lightning Arabaji, you have the floor. You have three minutes and please don't go back to nine.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u72	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, we must agree that, as far as animal health is concerned, we must put ourselves in public, with evidence and documentation, because the dispersion of unfounded and, much more so, false news is capable of creating conditions of confusion, fear and even panic in public opinion. In any case, I think we all understand here that this cannot be a field of political controversy. I would like to make this clear from the outset, Madam President, because in your question you are actually giving up because it was allegedly in our country that the coronary cases in mink were completely incomplete. That is what you said, and you have now said in the question. I will tell you an initial inaccuracy and I will explain why you obviously do not know that the competent department of our Ministry of Veterinary Directorate-General, immediately after the first globally recorded case of COVID -19 on 26 April 2020 in farmed mink in the Netherlands, produced and sent information documents within four, five days, on 4 May 2020, long before the first case was detected in the country - we are talking about the situation in May 2020 - and it also issued clear instructions with documents on 15-10-2020 and 11-11-20, respectively, on strengthening veterinary controls and the need to respect strict biosecurity measures. In addition, it has already established a sampling protocol and described precisely the definition of ‘substantiated case’. All this, my fellow Member, takes place in May 2020, six months before the first case in the country, six months before the first case in Denmark! What happened next? After the first confirmed case of SARS - COV -2 was detected on 13 November 2020 in family rearing with symptomatic mink in Kozani, the competent Directorate-General for Veterinary Affairs was immediately recommended - and accepted - to kill and land all animals in the contaminated unit - two and a half thousand in the number - based on the precautionary principle. [[At this point, the ending bell of the speaking time of the Mrs. Secretary is ringing.]] Mr President, a small tolerance because they are public health issues, you know, of interest. Why did this precautionary principle apply? He claimed in a farmed unit so that the case would not spread. The animals have been killed and registered, contrary to what you say, in the fenced area of the breeding, in accordance with the provisions of the existing and Union legislation on the treatment of newly occurring diseases and the relevant protocol. And of course, the breeder will be compensated for by the issue of the relevant NGO compensation. I stress that no product of adolescence from this rearing has been marketed. Therefore, second inaccurateness, my dear fellow Member, when you say 'issuing products have probably been promoted'. Who says that? Get him to tell me. ‘Possibly freely promoted in trade’. Nor is it true, on the one hand, because, Mrs Schleicher, this is what biosafety rules which our country respects, and, on the other hand, why I should like to tell you that it would be practically impossible. Do you know why it would be practically impossible? Because in time it doesn't coincide. Let's say it was unprepared political leadership, unprepared the agency. At that time, however, there were no adolescences, my colleague. Inaccurate thirdly, refer to a significant delay in informing the World Organisation for Animal Health in detecting the mutated strain. What you're saying can prove it? You can't. Because I can prove to you otherwise. So I inform you that immediately after confirming the first outbreak of the disease in our country on Friday 13 November, the competent Ministry of the Environment on Monday immediately informed the World Organisation of Animal Health - I have the numbers of protocols and documents available to you - and the European Commission. And she did so, Mrs Sacorafa, although the infection of mink by this virus is not included in the mandatory information lists of the European Union and the World Health Organisation. In other words, there was no contractual obligation in the country. On the contrary, they consistently made this information, although under the rules they did not have to. Even since then, in cooperation with the EGE and in the implementation of the doctrine of the single control - 'One Health' - it has made sure that the data are kept updated in a timely manner, in full transparency and in every appropriate manner all available information in the areas of animal and public health. Furthermore, you will be aware that neither the European Union nor any international organisation or European authority has given us any late submission of information. I shall close, Madam President, and thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance with the fourth inaccuracy. You say that in the next rearing units where the transmission was found, the appropriate steps were not taken, and obviously, as I understand it, there was no killing of all animals. And, of course, there was no killing of all animals, ladies and gentlemen, because by detecting the SARS virus - COV - 2 on 18 November in eight more farms - five days after the original case - in West Macedonia it became clear to the general veterinary department that the virus has entered several breeds, that the incident was not isolated and therefore we have been passing from the precautionary principle to the principles of management. On the basis of the protocols, therefore, the agency recommended that the strategy for the management of infected young farms be redefined and that they should not be killed massively on the basis of the findings of epidemiological investigation, the risk of human contamination - low for the general population, moderate for workers according to the ECDC -, mild clinical disease in animals which retreat after a very short period of time and, of course, the socio-economic impact of this sector on the local economy and society. The rest will be said, with your tolerance, Mr President, in my dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u73	Thank you very much, Mrs. Arabaji. Mrs. Sacorafa, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u74	Mr President, I hope you will show me some tolerance too, because it is a serious matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u75	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u76	Minister, firstly, you are too young to abdicate me that I am provoking political controversy. In no case, at least, on such a serious issue as the health of all our citizens and our citizens. Secondly, I would certainly not have come here without any documentation to ask you such a question, which employs a very large proportion of the citizens of Northern Greece, but especially the breeders of these animals. First of all, I would like to say, Mr President, that I am perpetually opposed to the rearing of such living animals, where live live, is being extradited to use the fur. I'll fight to the end of the day this is over sometime. But that's irrelevant. It is not today's debate. I will not go into the tribulations and the inaccuracies of all those responsible, they said, there were others who were not entirely relevant to the subject. As regional counsellors, they came out and talked about matters that did not concern them as scientists. I'm not going to go to this process. What I would like to say, however, and I did not ask the Minister - and I will now ask you, Minister, I did not do so in my first place - is that, while we talked about killing and scratching all these living, you told us that they were buried in pits, rather than being cremated - as it were - and the skins were delivered to processing and storage to be sold, instead of being incinerated, as it should be. At the same time, most of these animals are platinumized in the rest of the units, in the cages. Workers and owners are still working on their rearing, other workers have dealt with the killing, grinding and burial of thousands of animals, from which the fur was taken, other workers have also dealt with the processing of the leather they sold. So all these people have families, friends, relatives, with whom they come in contact. What makes more sense to ask you whether there is a transmission of the mutant through this process. My question expresses a reasonable concern, which I am sure is common to all of us, Minister, despite what is officially said. Concern is about a particular danger, which, if we underestimate it, can take dramatic proportions. We always expect that there should be a real dialogue in the House and not a war between government and Members who ask questions. We were, however, prepared to have this answer on your part. We saw just the day before that, on Tuesday, on the ERT3 show, entitled 'Innocent minks do not transmit the coronary' and a central message 'the situation in fur farms does not inspire concern'. That's where we heard that probably the mutated virus isn't transmitted from the mink to the man. And yet, the World Organisation for Animal Health, the OIE - you know him very well - confirms that the virus has been proven to have been retransmitted from mink to man. The Danish State Institute, the Statens Serum Institute, has warned that breeders are more at risk than doctors, nurses and nurses. Madam Minister, I do not think it is time for irresponsible concerns, nor for dangerous reassurance. Everyone can accept a government effort that needs to keep the climate of peace on the social base. It is, however, another matter to reassure society, and it is another matter for those responsible to be reassured and not to do what is necessary. The first finding was at the farm in the area of Kosani. What do the documents of the International Organisation for Animal Health show, which you mentioned earlier, and which I will be tabling to you? Event principle on 4 December 2020. Confirmation of an event on 8 December 2020. Date of reference on 12 January 2021. OIE Information on 12 January 2021. Do you think that's normal for you to know about the mutation more than a month later? [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs Sophia Sakorafa, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] On 8 December 2020, therefore, the EMCDDA identified the Y453F mutation, referred to as a mink-related variant in five genomes. ProMED, a program to monitor emerging illnesses of the International Society of Diversities, in view of a similar problem in Sweden, reports Greece as an example to avoid, because unlike reports, there was an emerging disease. Recently, on January 22nd, the Minister of Health announced that the genomic surveillance in Greece is being reinforced by the creation of a network where the testing of samples will be carried out by the Institute of Medical Research of the Athens Academy, the IBEA. So you know that there are countries where the closure of farm units has been implemented for the duration of the pandemic, such as the Netherlands, Denmark, Hungary, etc. And many others are at the last stage of making such decisions. As far as we are concerned, therefore, the professional groups concerned do not have any substantial information. On the other hand, additional biosecurity measures in farms have been shown to be ineffective and this is acknowledged by everyone. We therefore hope that there will be vigilance and effectiveness. "Seeing and doing" is not enough, Minister. Here too, government responsibility is analogous to the potential risk. We therefore expect a concrete response to the measures and how to deal with them. In any case, we will be here tomorrow and it will prove who is right and I sincerely wish you, Minister, to have one. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Sacorafa. Mrs. Arabatzis, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Colleague, thank you for the indirect compliment on the young man of age. Of course, I do not know whether this is related to the adequate representation of the parliamentary chairs. In any case, in order to put things in their order, I have not insulted you, my fellow Member, you have forsaken us, in writing and in oral terms. I, too, invoked your democratic sensitivity. Your work respects it very much, our parliamentary control respects it very much in this government. That is why, as we have to answer all the topical questions, I do not know how to describe them - in recent years, 2015-2019. So I do not ask you to give up on us and tell us absolutely incomplete and all the things you have said. Also, I cannot understand your reasoning about complacentness. All that I've given you, for which there are official documents, official dates, have you been seen as a reaction of reassurance by a government? Also, my fellow Member, I really regret the fact, which is what? You said you were waiting for my answer. I don't know if you have any other possibilities and you understand what they're going to answer. I have not seen what you say in your question and which, obviously, by reading them, the public should be informed and we should also protect it if it reads them, I do not know whether it feels safe. So, here you are talking about parliamentary scrutiny, and if you had to come here more intense and more fighting. No one is proving us. You don't prove us any. No one has proved us. I would therefore like to make a special reference, Mrs Oomen-Ruijten, to the health of workers in mink farming units. You say in your question that the mutation of SARS - COV-2 can affect both human capacity to produce antibodies and re-infections, but also the effectiveness of vaccines. And here, Madam President, there is really - and I will say it - the unacceptable inaccuracy of what you write and state. Because the virus you are invoking and having these consequences, which are obviously dispersing a fear, namely the mutation of strain 5 of Denmark, had absolutely nothing to do with it and fortunately - I am glad to say - with the one found in the six workers of the units, Mrs Sakorafas. I am not saying that, Mrs Sacorafa, this is what the Agency for Public Health says yesterday, Mrs Sacorafa, where she says: 'From the genome analysis, it appears that the strains of the virus in mink farm workers and in the mink farms in Greece are members of the community which are not related to any of the strains 1 to 5, which were detected in minks and workers in farms in Denmark. The individual Y453F mutation - without the additional four mutations of this intense case in Denmark - "it was found in six workers." - the mere - 'and in the minks of three farms, while no sample was detected from the general population so far.' The paper, I repeat, is from February 4th. ‘This mutation shall not cause a heavier disease...’. - EGY says these - “... Compared to the unmutaged strains of the virus. Of the six employees who had it, the three manifested mild symptoms and the three were asymptomatic.’; [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr Fotini Arabatzis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Therefore, I would ask you to pay attention to what you say in the public speech. In addition, although it is a dangerous strain, as the EGE says, we, in cooperation with the EGE, have always taken care of the net of strong biosecurity preventive measures, Mrs Sakova, so that since then the four hundred fifty workers in the mink farms have already passed eight coronary testing cycles, that is to say, three thousand six hundred tests have been carried out so far. Of course, in cooperation with the Ministry of Digital Governance, care has been taken to include these workers in the high-priority groups in relation to vaccination. And I close with the sixth inaccuracy that supposedly mutated coronary strains were identified in a hundred twenty positive specimens of the people of Kozani, Grevenes and Kastoria. I will reread, for insight, the EGE communication: "The individual mutation Y453F, which has no connection to the Danish virus, has not been detected in any sample from the general population so far". Fortunately, it was not detected in the hundred and twenty that you referred to. I would also like to say that, throughout this process, we have to apply strict biosecurity measures to plants and by the way, the minks that have been killed, killed with their skin, Mrs Sacorafas. In addition, we have the mandatory application of strict measures, such as a ban on the movement of animals from a plant to a plant, high biosecurity conditions in plants, compulsory use of personal protective equipment by workers, in order to prevent them from operating. So, ladies and gentlemen, references to rumours, speculation, arbitrary evidence are obviously unfounded, unfounded and dangerous for the country's credibility. Recapitulating, not only is there no question of looking for responsibilities - which you are suggesting in your question - in managing the situation, but on the contrary it has been demonstrated - and I must congratulate all the parties involved - and, as we must, directly reflex, knowledge and application of the protocols in the field. The only responsibilities I fear will have to be sought, but we are not responsible, but public opinion to look for them, are those of political investment in risk and fear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Mrs. Arabaji.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u80	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u81	Mrs Sakorafa, firstly, it is not provided for in the Rules of Procedure and, secondly, the Minister should respond. I also had to deliver the Chamber at 11:30.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u82	I know the procedure, and I apologise to the Minister too. I would therefore suggest that she read the OIE communication very carefully, as well as she should have read the ProMED communication very carefully, as well as listened very carefully to Mr Thanos who said and said, but said something very serious: 'In Greece there can be no test, because we do not have any biosecurity laboratories', Minister. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u83	Come on, Mrs. Arabaji.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr President. Honestly, Mrs Sacorafa, because of the mask you're wearing, I find it hard to arrest all these reports you've made. Please submit them to the Minutes. Appropriate to the EAFRD, the World Health Organisation and the relevant documents, I cannot imagine that there is one. Because you said about the OIE.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u85	Read it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u86	Did you read what we sent as a country? If you've read them, I'm very pleased. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u87	Thank you both. I have the honour to inform the House that the Minister of Justice has forwarded to Parliament under Rule 86 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2003 "Prime responsibility of the Ministers", as in force, on 05-02-2021: Criminal forensics relating to the former Minister of the Environment and Energy George Stathakis and criminal forensics relating to the State Secretary for Civil Protection Nikolaos Chardalia. Let's go to the next and last question. Mr. Katrin, at 11:30 I should have handed over the Hall. Will the second question be discussed under number 364/1-2-2021 in the second cycle of the Members of the Elijah Movement, Mr Michael Katrin, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on 'Will the producers of Elijah be compensated for the damage they suffered because of the coronary'? Mr. Catarini, you have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u88	Mr President, thank you very much. Be sure that if the Minister responds to what I will ask in my prototype, I undertake not to exercise my right to secondary education and to make it easier for you and the workers here in plenary. Minister, the damage suffered by the producers and farmers of Elijah is huge because of the financial consequences of the coronary - of course there are other categories of producers throughout the country - and the main reason for this is the closure of the focus that, even today, no one knows when to open, is uncertain, as is a disturbance in the export chain at least in the first wave of pandemic. Already, the economy of Elijah has suffered a heavy blow over the past two years by constantly reducing the sale price of olive oil and other products. As far as we are concerned, farmers, people's producers and producers for low-cost early watermelon and spring potatoes have been compensated, while those with 300 euros per acre, and those with 245 euros per acre, despite the fact that the original estimates were talking about larger amounts of compensation. Today we are talking about compensation for late watermelons - for late watermelons - I would like to say to you, Minister, that the cost of production is about EUR 800 per acre, as is the case for early watermelons - for continental potatoes, autumn seasonal ones as we say below in my area, horticulture and salads, outdoors and greenhouses, and March and November, which most of which were either left unsold or sold at degraded prices. Also, the last two months saw a serious disturbance in the price of oranges and mandarins, which are now sold only for puffing of EUR 5 to 6 minutes with an average selling price in normal periods of EUR 22 to 30 minutes. I have two questions: First, will you compensate for late watermelons and autumn potatoes in proportion to the compensation you have made and gave for early watermelons and spring potatoes taking into account both the high production costs and the very high loss of income? Secondly, because the answer from the Ministry on 28 December to the whole of the Members of the Change Movement - the answer is signed by Mr Vorides - there is no guarantee of any amount to compensate for horticultural and salads, oranges or mandarins and you have not published to date any relevant notice of horticultural, salad March, November oranges, mandarin December - January, I would ask if it is your intention to compensate these producers as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, too, Mr. Catarini. Will the State Secretary for Rural Development and Food reply, Mr. Fotini Arabaji? Mrs. Arabaji, you have the floor for three minutes. Please keep the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u90	Mr. Colleague, I really understand your anxiety to show your dear producers of Elias and your fellow citizens your interest in restoring the loss of income that has been suffered and the agricultural livestock sector has been affected by the pandemic crisis. But I fear, Mr President, that you have been tempted by our Government and the leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development, which, as you know, bears the dogma - and proves it in practice - that no farmer, farmer, beekeeper or fisher who has proved to be affected by the coronary crisis, that the causal relationship of loss to the pandemic is not going to remain unfounded. This principle, of course, is not an empty reason for content, but on the contrary, it has taken flesh and bone from the payments it has made so far and has given credit to the Ministry of Rural Development. I want to be a little more specific and to restore some things in the classroom, because I have - the truth is - a sensitivity to this, because by reading your question you say something about the delayed compensation of producers. It says that Elias was lately compensated by farmers, producers, etc. I say this very well because I appreciate the interest you show in the primary sector, but do not plunge yourself into pointless, truly pointless opposition crises. Why am I saying that? Why do you know, Mr President, that any aid granted is given horizontally throughout the country and obviously there is no distinction of the same type of compensation in time and quantity from a county. Secondly, you tell me that there have been initial assessments - you have said so now - of greater amounts of compensation. Initial estimates for higher percentages than who were there? From the producers? This is expected and fully justified, for producers to want more. But obviously you're implying the NSAF, you don't mean the producers. You say, "If I read well behind words, we've said other things, and we've paid more." If you do not say so, I apologise, but if you say so, Mr Colleague, the sums are not announced by the Ministry's leadership, saying 'you will take so much', because that is what the Minister likes! They are not announced, resulting, exported, documented, argument about the loss of income of each industry and, if you like, for a reason above. In addition to the prudence shown by the government in managing public resources, the European Commission is required, as you know, to give full justification and, indeed, to a three-year backwards period to the European Commission, because that is what it imposes, Mr President, the temporary framework for State aid for the pandemic crisis. So the farmers, to whom you refer, and in particular the sheep and goat farmers, you know that they took 30 million euros on 26-10-2020. You have a thousand eighty-seven-seven-seven ovine and caprine farmers in Elias and I hope it will increase. They took close to 1 million euros. People's market producers were compensated for EUR 8,700,000 on 31 December and 23 December, of which a hundred and ninety-six beneficiaries of your prefecture - I hope they will be made more - took from EUR 153,000. Oil producers, which in your region totalled about seven thousand beneficiaries, were compensated as you know from measure 21 of the PAA, from the rest of the PAA, which, according to the Community framework, we had the opportunity to deal with the pandemic crisis and took close to EUR 7 million. The producers of the Elijah Prefecture of Spring Potatoes and New Watermelons, all of which amount to six hundred and thirty-three beneficiaries, were compensated on 23-12-2020 to 4,700,000 euros. It is worth noting - I imagine that you will not question it - that the producers of the spring potato of your prefecture are three quarters of the total production of Elias and the rest of the fourth, if I am not mistaken, is about the continental or autumn potatoes, for which I am also aware, because you know that they are cultivated above, in Macedonia, especially in Drama and other regions. Your producers, that is, three quarters are paid. With regard to late watermelon and autumn potatoes and greenhouses, the relevant documentation file has been submitted and a commitment has been requested from the Ministry of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, too. Mr. Katrin, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I understand the intensity of the previous debate, but I would ask you, with all due respect, when you are addressing my colleague, to address you with due respect and with the appropriate style and not to give lessons if what we write in your question you like, fit or in accordance with the context. But I understand the tension from previous discussions. Mr President, the Minister spoke for six minutes without answering any of the two questions I have raised. I want to believe that in her denture she will tell us something specific if they are compensated and with what amount the late watermelon and the autumn potato are paid. You can also tell us if you intend - so you did not say anything - to compensate horticultural, salads, oranges and mandarins. I don't know if you've got your attention, but you're gonna have to answer. The questions are those two that I have submitted to you and you have not answered anything. You mentioned to me what the ministry has done so far. You don't have to, Minister. We read it in the reply you sent us in writing. You don't come here to repeat what you've been writing a month and a half ago. You're coming to answer what we're asking you right now. I also referred to the compensation prices and the categories of producers in Elias. You didn't have to repeat it. I put it in the question and in the written and oral development if you noticed it. You will tell me: 'Why Elias?' We have problems all over Greece. You said there was no discrimination. Allow me, because I follow the course of the compensation of the Ministry of Rural Development, to have some reservations about the prioritisation of compensation for products, producers and regions. But I will not go into details because I do not want, Mrs Arabatzis, to deal with anything other than what I have come to ask you. I would like to remind you that Elias, based on the Eurostat study in 2017, is the first region in the European Union in agricultural specialisation. What does that mean? That Elijah's income by a proportion of the population is the highest of agricultural production in all regions of Europe. Of course Elia, as you know, was first in all the regional improvement plans, with the first scores. Secondly, we are talking about a category that is farmers - farmers who, as you well know, have taken no relief from the government, no tax, insurance or loan suspension of obligations. Why am I saying that? Now that the compensation has been granted - you remember - an amendment to the House on 21 December was made to it for the incompatibility and duty-free of these allowances. Why is there an amendment, Minister? Because you have seen after a year and a half that 70% of farmers and farmers owe either tax, funds or banks, and you have not given them any suspension within the pandemic because it is not a affected sector. But they owe them. But you are bringing an amendment to make compensation inappropriate. But it is not a affected sector! You have 150 million euros. Mr Stakoras gave it to you in April. On the basis of the Ministry's document, 86.6 million have been allocated in 2020, i.e. around 58% to 60%. That's where I beg you for delay. You had 150 million euros. You had to give it as soon as possible and you have only given the EUR 86.6 million, on the basis, not what I am saying, what you said in the written answer you gave us. I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying this: I shall bring you back to the dramatic reality of the producers of Elijah, at a high cost of production. The late watermelon 800 euros per acre. The cultivation, as in the morning, may be different from other parts of the country. All the watermelons in July were freshened and left unleavened. That's the reality. The sales were sold instead of 6-7 cents of the euro. There was a rise in August, but in general there is very great damage. With regard to vegetables - salads, also cultivation of EUR 500-600 per acre, they were not sold because of the closure. Madam Minister, I read in the reply here that a sum has been paid for thermoplastic crops of Crete in tomatoes, cucumbers and eggplants. Because you said that there were no discrimination in products between different regions. I see in the answer here, in the last Bullet, that you have ensured for tomatoes, cucumbers and aubergines for Crete in the greenhouses. So we ask: why should there not be such a provision for Elias in the case of March, but only for Crete? Why is that so? In oranges and mandarins, 70% of production, Mr President, has remained unleavened. It is now sold 10 cents of the euro or 5-6 cents of the euro for juice. People are being destroyed. I honestly ask you, and I want you to tell us: First, if you intend to compensate for these products. Secondly, if you can tell us - it will be important - because you have made a request to the Ministry of Finance to be approved, what is the amount of compensation with which the Ministry of Rural Development proposes that these categories of producers be compensated, whatever you propose to be compensated for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, too, Mr. Catarini. Mrs. Arabaji, you have three minutes to answer. I think the questions are specific.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u94	I'll try to make good use of time. I shall look very carefully at the Minutes of my prototype, to see whether or not 'unsuitable' respect, which, as you have said, has been demonstrated in my prototype. You also said that you had no need to mention with figures and figures the payments made with regard to the Elias Law. I do not imagine that it is of interest to mention these figures when you refer to your question for a late payment of these items. May I, I imagine, answer your question as is its structure. Because that's actually what I did. You say that there has been discrimination, but you will not refer to discrimination. I said, Mr President, that when a measure comes out, for example, when the sheep and goat farmers in the country are being strengthened because of the pandemic crisis, a payment is being made, a sum is being paid horizontally in the country. In other words, where there is ovine and caprine animals, it gets the corresponding money. My colleague, Mr President, is giving me an excellent opportunity, I think. He basically said that we are doing nothing for farmers and even said that we are not doing fast. I shall reply as far as possible, and indeed how quickly it had to be done. Now, Mr Colleague, you are sincerely forcing me to make a mini-report of the measures taken by this government to strengthen, shield, protect the agricultural livestock sector. Let me refer to the reduction in the tax rates, which we just got out of the government, as a bill? Let me mention the rationalisation of insurance contributions, which was a second tax for farmers? Let me mention the fact that for the second time farmers, like last year, will not pay the trade fee this year? May I mention that they will not pay a solidarity contribution? Let me refer to the fact - why did you say 'from nowhere to the other measures' - that for the first time farmers received an advance? But above all, I should like to refer to its positive amendment - in fact, thank you for obviously supporting it here - brought by the former Minister for Rural Development, Mr Vorides, on the incompatibility of aid? So, now what do you think, he's badly brought her? Yeah, he brought her, and she was right to bring her. Because, obviously, in the previous years, in 2015-2019 I always meant, you knew what their fate was. You said I wasn't specific. What wasn't I specific to? I have told you that for your question about late watermelon, autumn potato and greenhouses the relevant dossier, as laid down in the procedure, has been submitted to the Ministry of Finance and there is a request for commitment. Mr Colleagues, as soon as the Ministry of Finance gives this approval to the current Minister, Mr Lebanese, as is done in all the funding, the amount will be announced. Isn't that what happened to the previous ones? That is how it happened in the previous ones, Mr Colleague. You won't question it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u95	What happened? How old was it?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u96	Finally, I'm going to what you said about the other branches. I will repeat, as I said at the outset, that on the basis of the available budgets, which we are making every effort to make the best use of, any primary sector which has been affected by the pandemic crisis will be compensated. Now, in relation to as soon as possible, yes, Mr President, as soon as possible, as Mr Vorides has answered to such questions, it does not mean glue. It means that to mature this process...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u97	Are you going to tell me about the oranges?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u98	Please don't interrupt. Madam Minister, we don't have time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u99	You are laughing, Mr Colleague, but obviously in the European Commission you need to prove the loss of income, so that you do not recover from the government at one time. Let us not go now and start a new cycle of controversy. As soon as possible it was three, not later than four months, and in one it was less than three months, Mr President. So don't worry. We are here, managing money with enthusiasm, with foresight, because the coronary crisis is unfortunately not over, and we do not know what will be coming out of affected sectors in the middle of time. We hope that there will be no affected sectors. We manage them in dreadful, reasonable and fair terms to the representatives of the primary sector. And because you said that exports decreased, Mr President, that for the first time in thirty-six years the agricultural balance of our country has been positively closed. Let us also say that the first wave, the four-month pandemic, which you have invoked a reduction in exports, ELSTAT has recorded a two-digit export rate, Mr President. It is two-digit first four months and it is two-digit until nine months of 2020! Be well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u100	Thank you very much. Have a good day to both of you. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-05-S1-commons.u101	With the consent of the House at 12.01 p.m. the sitting on Monday, February 8th, 2021, at 13.00, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent questions.
