ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 21-1-2021, the minutes of its meeting of Thursday, 21 January 2021, with regard to the vote on the whole draft law: ‘Simplification of the Multilateral Convention for the implementation of measures relating to tax agreements to prevent the erosion of the tax base and the transfer of profits’.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda for the INQUIRY The debate is closed at No 5/18-11-2020 on the question by the President of the Group of the Parliamentary Party of European Socialists, Mr Fotinis (Photo) and Members of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) of the European People's Party (Christmas). Georgiou Arvanitis, Ilhan Ahmet, Konstantinos (Nantias) Giannakopoulou, Christos Gokas, George Kamin, Charalambos Kastanides, Michael Katrin, Vassilios Kegeroglou, Charulas (Haras), Kefalou, Odysseas Konstantinopoulos, Dimitrios Konstantinopoulos, Evangelikis Likados, Andreas Lovertos, Georgiou Mulkiotis, Bucharan Baran, Dimitrios Biagi, Apostolos Papandreou, Andreas Poulas, Konstantinos Scandalidis and Georgiou Frangidis to the Ministers for Economic Development and Development, Health and Rural Development, with the topic: "The Government is unable or has not presented the will to present a comprehensive plan for economic recovery and economic recovery of the economic potential of the two-year-year-year-year-old economic and social benefits of the economic development and development of the two-year-year-year-year-old economy-finance-finance-finance-finance-finance-finance-financed. Before I give the floor to the first speaker, let me tell the House that the Standing Committee on Production and Trade presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: 'a) Clear the Intergovernmental Agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the Republic of Bulgaria on the Greek-Bulgarian Interconnector (IGB Project) and (b) Clear the Statute (Creation) of the Eastern Mediterranean Natural Gas Forum (EMGF)'. Ladies and gentlemen, the parliamentary representatives appointed to discuss the question are: from the Change Movement Mr.Michalis Katrinis, from New Democracy Mr.Ioannis Vroutsis, from SYRIZA Mr.Nikolaos Pappas, from the KKE, from Christos Katsotis, from the Greek Solution Mr.Villiardos and from Mera25 Mrs.Angeliki Adamopoulos. The debate will be opened by the first questionable MEP I of Athens of the Change Movement Mr. Konstantinos Scandalidis. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the Group of the European People's Party has tabled two months ago the current question we are debating today. The noteworthy point is that in the meantime and while the government presented the draft of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, which has already been submitted to the European Commission, our question remains fully up-to-date. First of all, it assesses your specific proposal not only with regard to our overall assessment of the question, but also with regard to our individual objections and reservations. The conclusion in advance, for us, remains. The government does not have an integrated plan to make use of the tens of billions of euros for the country's economic and social recovery, it does not guarantee by its proposals for productive and development reconstruction and is continuing without a programme for the recovery of the deep recession and the social problems caused by the pandemic. It would be enough to read the text of the question, for which I would not change two months after an antenna. Ladies and gentlemen, the magnitude of the recession, the greatest post-war, which is estimated for 2020 in a two-digit figure, with dramatically reducing incomes, with closed businesses, with unemployment and insecurity on the one hand, and the fact that in the next few years our country will have more than 90 billion, makes this comprehensive plan not just necessary but a national check to keep the country from losing another chance. We have proposed very early measures to tackle the pandemic and its consequences. If they had been accepted, the situation would have been much better. At the same time, we have worked out and presented our own comprehensive plan, as analysed by the President of the Change Movement in Thessaloniki on September 16th. We have called on you to ensure, in terms of national consensus and social consensus, that this programme is drawn up, as the timetable for making use of the resources available goes beyond your mandate, and we have proposed a specific quantitative and timely allocation of resources. Beyond the immediate measures to keep the economy alive and society up and running, as well as to relaunch the economy, we have proposed that much of the resources be directed towards the completion of the public and social infrastructure and social protection systems that the crisis has highlighted as pillars of protection of life and social cohesion, with particular emphasis on investment for a shift in production, the reconstruction of the development model for mass and quality jobs. In fact, we have identified the quantitative and timing of programming and the coordination of the different objectives in a single development strategy, and we have tabled specific proposals on processing, tourism, primary production and development-support infrastructure, in particular transport and networks, in order to boost exports. That's what our party did. Unfortunately, the presentation of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan confirmed our appreciation for both weakness and lack of will from the government. First of all, the structure you have chosen: It is obvious that the closed system of power of Maximos with the establishment of the special service for the Reconstruction Fund and its service with posters wants to control and exploit the whole process for its own goals. No decentralisation of the procedure in the name of alleged effectiveness. We consider the pyramid of democratic planning to be much more effective, the possibility of development actors at all levels from local to central, the possibility of participating in development planning. So the way decisions are taken, if it does not show a guilt, shows a central perception of the exercise of power. Secondly, the project is not holistic because it does not include synergies between the resources of the Recovery Fund and those of the NRP and the Common Agricultural Policy of the previous and current programming period. It does not, therefore, allow support for sectoral projects that are articulated with each other at the various levels. Thirdly, the programme does not really have any regional dimension. It completely ignores the regional structure of the country. It does not allow the development institutions to enter decision-making centres for the next development choices and use of resources. I'm sure they will only get in the direction that you want to drive. However, this does not in any way guarantee the balance in the development strategy, it does not guarantee balanced development and it does not guarantee the creation of regions with a name, which each region has its own development model, its own objectives. Fourthly, the generic nature of the description of the axes proposed and the action measure in question without allocation of the corresponding resources does not allow us to make a substantial assessment, despite the fact that we could agree on key titles, such as the green transition, the digital transition, etc., but it allows us to see basic shortcomings and weaknesses. Here again, I must say that issues relating to sustainable development require combined development policies in sectors and sectors and at the same time require specific procedures that socialise the sustainability process, enable society to participate in the service of this huge objective which is a crucial priority for the coming years for our country. Fifthly, while the government plan adopts the preservative framework of the Pissaridis committee on matters relating to labour and social policy, the proposals for sectoral projects and corresponding policies are completely empty. That makes no impression, no impression, because the social dimension of your policy is completely foreign. There is no one, there was no one in all the programming and development texts you have presented so far. The social dimension of policy is completely missing. Even in the resources that you are oriented towards the social state, you are very gypsies, you are well below what the circumstances require. Sixth, as far as the critical area of infrastructure for development is concerned, there are only two separate general references to measure 1.3 'Transfer to a green and sustainable transport system' and to measure 4.6, but there is no distribution of relevant resources, although some specific resources have been allocated in the description of the proposal on the respective axes. Seventh, indicative and decisive for how the government perceives the role of public investment for growth and for attracting funds is the fact that in the 2021 budget the Public Investment Programme is very low, in terms of 2019 substantially. Minister, I would like to say that there could be another direction in the way you planned your policy. You have, essentially, ideal conditions for relaunching the economy. You don't have an empty public fund, like 2010. You don't have beastly deficits. You have a public reserve of importance. You have access to low-cost borrowing, for the sake of the European Central Bank. You have a recovery package of 1.8 trillion to be distributed by the European Union. And finally, you have a political environment in the country that allows you to plan a truly development strategy in a consensus and in a very concrete and complete way. So you have all the opportunity to plan the integrated development strategy for the country, to link the relaunch of the economy to the development goals. But you're doing the whole opposite. You should have said that production capacity and jobs will be saved as much as possible. The policies you have pursued have been in the opposite direction. You said that investments should be launched immediately to fill out the gap at the initiative of the state. How are you dealing with infrastructure investments in the ERC in the Public Investment Programme? You want to make it easier - and you said it from the outset - to influencing foreign investment and internal resources from private investment in the country. With what structural changes in the state? What banks? Where did the liquidity go? We have repeatedly criticised this policy. In addition, the objectives are not being formulated. They hang like the Hanging Gardens of Babylon, because there is no link between your long-term development programme of objectives and today's response to the resumption of the economy, the medium-term fiscal policy plan that articulates individual branches, objectives and procedures and determines the relationship of steps with choices and results in a substantial, complete development strategy. I'm afraid you're exhausted your inspirations in paper exercises. The worst thing is to prove that this is not only for the sake of structural weakness of the conservative model of governance, but also of some self-interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr. Scandalides, for the time. Here comes Mr. George Arvanitides. Mr. Arvanitides, you have five minutes for your prototype and three minutes for your denology. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in our country we have never hated the wise nor the wise. We've always had plenty of them and of them. We also had a multitude of findings and plans from committees of wise and wise. What was missing was effective political guidance and the will to implement, but also the structures and mechanisms which are called on to implement the decisions and projects. And I say this because any proposals by Pissaridis or the plans presented by Mr Skylakakis are not panacea and they are not enough alone. In time, it was the PASOK governments who have succeeded with vision and insistence on a particular plan to bring large areas to our country, with the benefit of the non-preferential and middle-class. The New Democracy is sufficient in its conservative management and in its well-known ‘business as usual’, to the plunged. The same does now, obeying its timeless parade DNA, in view of the great and perhaps unique opportunity of the Recovery Fund to change the country. Conservative choices and management of "business as usual", without vision, without boldness, with benefit to the few and the chosen ones. And the government may in words make the defender of 'green' growth and sustainability, but the main requirement for us is the preconditions and results of this, how we will achieve this by what means and with whom as benefited. For whom, Mr Staikora, do you want to use 37% of the Fund's resources directed at the green transition? With what structures, with which state, with what objectives, with what priorities? With the aim of perhaps surpassing the three thousand poster, making new management and monitoring companies? The country needs more than ever a new production model based on the digital and green economy, but which will reduce inequalities and bring about balanced and sustainable growth. How, however, do the objectives and narratives of green development be served by the Government's choices relating, in fact, to the resources of the Development Fund? How do many benefit and reduce inequality? How much do they promote energy democracy, which we are talking about? How much are they fighting energy poverty? How much are they preparing a fair energy transition? How long does it ensure resilience to climate change? I list, for example, only five recent choices by the government, which give all of this a clear answer: little, not at all, thus destroying the myth of the 'green' government and the 'green' Prime Minister. Firstly, the total indifference of Greece getting free rights of pollutants, emissions of pollutants that it is entitled to make the connections of the islands and is EUR 850 million. Neither the Ministry of Energy nor the IPTO have done something to secure these resources, with which it could be allocated up to 60% of the electricity interconnection between the Dodecanese and the islands of the northern Aegean. We've asked you a question, we haven't got an answer, we're invoking you for it. Secondly, the decision on 31-12-2020 of the former Minister for the Environment and Energy, which cuts the resources of the Green Fund for deprivation in western Macedonia and Megalopolis. Just before Mr Hatzidakis left, he cut resources from 6% to 1% to the Green Fund, rising reactions from local municipalities and institutions, at the same time as he promised western Macedonia's resources and development directly due to your choice of defoliation. This ministerial decision was made in secret, without any consultation. We have tabled a question, we are waiting for your answer. Thirdly, the great fiasco of 'click away' in 'Security'. One of the biggest projects in Europe, when we started it, has become the most inefficient in Europe. We have called for changes in its structure to bring environmental and social criteria in order to combat energy poverty in practice, not just to prove another figure in the absorption of funds and ultimately to prove who was faster in typing. We cannot continue the logic of 'first-come first-served', that is to say, whoever makes the first application will also receive a subsidy. However, there are also complaints - which you know - that justice is investigating for malicious software which has proposed the inclusion of certain applications. Fourthly, the 'target model' problem in energy for its energy costs, the great energy cost, which we all know is how crucial for our production process and industrial production. The existing industrial tariffs expired on December 31st and PPC has given two months of extension, but suggesting increases of 20% -40%. This is a night bomb along with the problematic 'target model' that showed failures and requires changes. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And, fifthly, an issue about Thessaloniki, which concerns the design that existed prior to the pandemic for the renewal of the site of IDD. So we're talking about the choice of a real estate in the center of PPP with a controversial PPP. And the question is: Now that everything changes, now that there is funding, one could see that proposal with the specific possibilities for funding. Now, how do we change Thessaloniki and how do we lead it to sustainability? What's our choice? Is this our choice for a metropolitan park? Is it our choice, because of this, to transfer the IGC to the west with the integration of infrastructures, with flooding armour and sustainability in terms of climate change? These are open issues ahead of us. So I suggest that you see the matter again. Already the institutions of the city and the scientific community have reopened the dialogue so that this opportunity for Thessaloniki will not be lost. In addition, and in 2004 with the claim of EXPO and in 2009 your government, the government of Mr Karamanlis, had decided after studies that the best place is in the west, the place in Sindo. Ladies and gentlemen, unlike New Democracy, in the Change Movement we emphasise the digital and 'green' economy with production and exports of innovative products. We ask domestic producers or co-producers with the highest added value for the country, we ask for the Fund's money to catch a place. We also ask for support to be given to many Greek small and medium-sized enterprises that will become "imades" and "catalysts" of balanced sustainable development, so that it becomes a truly social estate and a purpose and does not prevail so that the "green" development is something imposed from above, it only has profits for the large and at the end of the day it simply ends up being a "green" mutation of capitalism. It is also necessary to use the precious metals that are crucial to the promotion of electromobility, the case of 'LARCO', nickel which is so crucial for the electrical movement and the debate that has been opened. I hope that these resources will not be divided into 'elected's. It makes no sense to refill with electric cars, IX or become Megalopolis and Kosani a vast photovoltaic with panels that we will also import. What is the meaning and content of a fair transition when the deficit in the commercial balance is increasing?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u5	Mr. Colleague, you'll have to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u6	I shall conclude, Mr President. We must make special use of the possibilities of artificial intelligence and get on the train in the fourth industrial revolution. The big bet, therefore, for us is the productive use of the Cohesion Fund funds for the benefit of many and not just the few. With seven words, 'Green' growth with production in our country!'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u7	Immediately now Mr. Apostolos Panas has the floor and immediately after the President of the Change Movement. Mr. Pana, you have five minutes prototype and three minutes dentext.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u8	I will now use it, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u9	Will you now use your dentistry?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u10	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u11	Good. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, it is a fact that the pandemic is still in progress, affecting the whole of economic and social life. Despite the fact that the country is in a lockdown for two and a half months, the number of cases and nurses is still high, while twenty-five days after the start of vaccination, approximately 100 thousand people have been vaccinated, just 1% of the population. These figures show that, for today's debate too, we have to keep from the outset that there is a great deal of distance from the government's words and actions. It is also uncertain when the economy can be relaunched. The 2021 budget, adopted a few days ago, seems to be derailed. The improvisation is everywhere and the results reveal it. At the same time, your Government has reviewed several times the forecasts for assessing the necessary resources for those affected by COVID -19, and it is clear that among the nominal reports on aid that would be brought to people affected by the pandemic and those who are actually paid there is a great divergence. It is also unknown how many resources will be needed until the economy normalises. After all, there is a lack of comprehensive action, and this is illustrated by the fact that some branches do not exist in the allocation of money, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, but also for sectors relating to the rural world, which - if I may say so - was the poor relative of measures to combat pandemic. At the same time, it seemed that there is no plan to make the most of the management of the existing NSRF provided by the European Commission, with a large number of small and medium-sized enterprises being left out of support through the regional programmes. However, today is a different day and emphasis should be placed on the rapid recovery of the economy, of course, as well as on addressing the structural problems it faces. The aim should be to promote growth based on the country's competitive advantages. Despite the fact that the preliminary draft of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan has been tabled in consultation, I should like to say that this is not a holistic proposal, because there are no synergies between the Recovery Fund and the ESDP and the new CFP, so that there can be no maximisation of the benefits. At the same time, there is great ambiguity in the distribution of resources between sectors, and there is no specific planning per sector of the economy. We, as a movement of change, did not confine ourselves to criticism of this draft draft, nor did we in the Pissaridis report. We have tabled an integrated proposal to make use of the available resources, and this is our particular difference as an exception and as a philosophy of operation within the House. Ladies and gentlemen, in the context of the recovery of the economy, the primary sector should also play a key role. The absence of a strategy during the previous period in the agri-food sector was evident. We have mainly moved into a technical and management logic. There has never been a stigma concerning what we will do the next day. There was no specific plan for the new CAP. Statistical data analyses and updates submitted by the previous Minister are clearly useful but cannot at any time constitute a national strategic plan. It is therefore regrettable that at the time when the country's fight is being given, there is no specific strategy for the agricultural sector, that there is no specific philosophy and that there is a rational management system. The fact is that there are still no such issues as the management of the ELGA issue, while as far as OPEKEPE is concerned, you are well aware that since 1 January it has been in a very unfavourable position. It is therefore necessary to prioritise them at the level of planning and financing synergies in the agricultural sector with other sectors that play a strong role in the economy. In this context, the ‘green’ transition with the development of RES will benefit farmers themselves and reduce production costs. Farmers, too, should benefit from the Carbon Emissions Fund, since many of their productive activities, such as tree crops and grassland, contribute decisively to the commitment of large quantities. At the same time, Greek agriculture is necessary to make use of the resources for climate change, both at policy level and at planning level. After all, investment, management and adaptation to climate change from the rural world will also be able to alleviate the issue of natural disasters, which in recent years has increased and created huge problems in local communities. We in the Change Movement believe that this crisis is an opportunity to see, as a whole, where the country will find itself the next day, to see where the agricultural sector will find itself, where the natural resources will be. Water, soil, pasture, livestock problems, structural issues of the entry of young farmers, cooperatives, producer groups, quality products, processing and the cost of agricultural production are key issues which we have brought to Parliament and we have tabled our proposals. However, from you we do not see an agenda, a specific strategy. And that's why we called you here today, to see if there's a plan and to make it before it's too late. Ladies and gentlemen, we call on you to present here today a fundamental programme and funding lines to discuss, but not the Commission's subsidy tables, because we know them, as we all know. We seek the allocation of money. That is what we ask you to testify today. To conclude, I would like to say that a major issue, which is also on your agenda, is the subject of the state's digital transformation. The agricultural sector must also be directly included there in order to facilitate the services of both farmers and farmers. A characteristic example: there should be a speeding up of the procedures for the allowances of the ELGA. You know that many years have been afflicted in this matter. At the same time, the resources of the new CAP must be used, an incentive for what we call 'digital agriculture'. It is also very important that there should also be design in the part of scientific research, innovation, education in the rural world. In essence, research and technology should meet the needs of the agricultural sector by creating what we call 'adjusted value'. Finally, the synergy between the financial tools of the sectors is crucial for connecting us to our major factor in economic life, tourism, which, as you know, will open up and recover next time. That's what we think. It is a great moment for the agri-food sector to maximise its benefits through small and medium-sized tourism. Ladies and gentlemen, the economic aid measures must be immediate for the moment, but also for the next day, which all the productive operators must try to survive, stand up and stand up to the whole economy. A concrete plan is needed. There is no other room for stagnation, neither in agricultural production nor in any sector. It needs a detailed plan, a timetable and additional resources. We are here to discuss, propose, intervene. And as we say in football, the ball is now on your feet! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u13	Thank you. The floor is now held for 10 minutes by the President of the Movement of Change, Mr. Gennimata.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled this question to hit a risk signal in this critical period. It is clear that we are exposed to the coronary and also to its economic consequences. And that's because the government didn't have and it doesn't have a plan to deal with him. It continues to move on with the logic "seeing and doing", while the Greek society is struggling and demanding solutions. You tell us, Minister, 'all good'. The propaganda is keeping you well. But the reality disproves you: double-digit reduction for 2020, with poor forecasts for 2021. A deficit of 14% of GDP. Recruitment of tax revenues by EUR 9 billion. They can no longer meet their obligations. Reduction in labour incomes of up to 30% for 56% of workers. Small and medium-sized enterprises, particularly retail trade and catering, emit 'SOS'. Their turnover decreased by 35 billion in the nine months of 2020. Their outstanding liabilities are growing rapidly and, of course, a new generation of'red' loans is being created. Mr Minister, problems with conservative policies, fragmentary measures and management logic are not dealt with, that is, the ones that your Government follows. With your ideas and customer practices, despite the 9.8 billion you have given, TBIX, the Guarantee Fund, the crisis is very intense and takes a dangerous and threatening dimension. Why? I'll tell you right away. Because your measures were, above all, fragmented, delayed, inadequate. We've told you too many times, but you're not changing logic. You have not targeted support for small and medium-sized enterprises, but you have given very important resources to the few strong ones. It is indicative that about eighteen thousand five hundred large businesses took EUR 5.3 billion, and four hundred fifty thousand small businesses received only EUR 2.2 billion and mainly from the repayable advance. You left the banks unintentional to fund the few big customers who, instead of throwing money on the market, turned them into their deposits. Instead of subsidising the job, you preferred the benefits. A hundred thousand jobs have already been lost. You went slowly to the failed 'Cooperation - WORK' programme and did not manage to use significant resources available to you by the European Union. It is characteristic that in relation to other countries that have the same population as us, like Belgium and Portugal, you have taken half of the resources, half of the money, as if Greece had no unemployment problem, did not need it, we are over! Within all of this, raise the waste of the state, make a government - mammoth and keep adding poster, thousands. You've exceeded the previous ones. 'What have you had, Yannis, what I've always had!'. The worst is that, despite mistakes and failures, you continue exactly the same policy. You continue with horizontal measures, which have a devastating impact on the economy. You do not adopt our proposal for a safe opening on the basis of the epidemiological data of each region. I ask: why should Rhodes or other areas with very low epidemiological burdens be closed, for example? Why do they have to be condemned, while we can monitor them in massive and repeated tests and seal them, not go over the problem there? Do you not understand, Minister, that with your choices the cost of pandemic grows with your own responsibility because of your political choices? Our policies are precisely at the opposite foot of the necessary radical changes imposed by the new conditions, which require a progressive plan and structural intervention. With this debate, we are therefore seeking not only to highlight the mistakes and to make the necessary criticisms for all of this, but at the same time we want to trigger the public debate on the recovery of the Greek economy, which has so far been inexistent. These issues are interconnected, because the future cannot be built on ruins, on the ruins of your policy. So change now, so that we do not find ourselves in unpleasant situations, with massive locks and with the growth of unemployment. You need to take, Minister, brave immediately measures. The Prime Minister spoke in a complaint about the EUR 37 billion available from the reserve, the overtaxation that the previous government had imposed on the middle-class - he kneeled it - and the lending made by your government. Because of the European Central Bank's measures, we are borrowing at a very low interest rate. There is therefore room for other important resources belonging to the Greek people to be used. Why do you deprive me? If not now, when? On the ruins? We have in time presented concrete, realistic, targeted measures to keep society and the economy alive. Above all, a new programme that is not reimbursed by 70% of the advance for 2021, at least equal to the total of 2020, which is the main criterion of reducing the turnover of enterprises. You are talking about a new programme at EUR 2.2 billion for 2021. In short, it's a drop in the ocean. Adjustment of debts to public and insurance funds in a hundred and twenty instalments. Take this brave decision at last. Burdening the debts by 30%, especially for the consistent ones. We can even see the removal of fines and surcharges. I always talk about the perpetual ones. Only then will they be able to repay their obligations and at the same time increase public revenue. A grant of 100% of insurance contributions for six months for firms which have been particularly affected, with the maintenance of jobs and workers' rights. Flexible credit criteria, Minister, and activation of the liquidity observatory, so that banks will not block any new liquidity tools that are created again. If you maintain the same logic, the same criteria, any increase in liquidity will be lost again will not reach those who really need it. Suspension by law of the provisions on first home auctions - there are households in danger of losing their home - and, of course, a freezing of the bankruptcy code until the crisis passes. And finally, to cover the three hundred and fifty thousand long-term OAED workers and seasonal workers in tourism at least by 30 to 2021. Finally, the support measures should include farmers and farmers who, as has already been said, have been treated as 'the poor relatives' by your Government. Ladies and gentlemen, I come to the point of the Recovery Fund. The government systematically avoids dialogue. It has presented its own plan, which, allegedly, meets the general conditions of the European Union, but is in no way an integrated Greek recovery proposal. It's not about the many, it's just the grown-ups already. It does not connect the investments with the increase in domestic production. It is accompanied by interventions promoting cheap and depreciated work, a project from which there is no substantial reference to public hospitals, social infrastructures and, of course, to the treatment of inequalities. He's talking about reforms. In fact, it promotes demolition. The New Democracy cannot give solutions with a view and its Government leads to a regression. There is, however, an alternative: The progressive path shown by the Change Movement. We have presented our proposals that have been drafted by a special committee with scientists, experts and political representatives with great knowledge and experience, always after dialogue with the representatives of the producer organisations. Our aim is: no euros without a development dimension, no euros without social recompense. Because the big problem is not now the deficit of resources. It is the deficit of integrated, substantial and progressive policy on the part of the Government of New Democracy. Our aim is therefore a new concept of the country's productive reconstruction. We have expressed it with very specific proposals that we have presented since September. We are talking about growth with strong social protection. We are talking about the inequalities we have to face. We are talking about the economy that ensures work. We emphasise, ladies and gentlemen, the transition to the digital and green economy, but with production in our country and exports. This second part is completely missing from the proposals made by the Government of New Democracy. Our priority is investments that add value to Greek production. We produce and export. We say no to imports and consumption, this outdated model. For us large projects not only mean large businesses but also opportunities for small and medium-sized enterprises with partnerships, joint ventures and special incentives. Our strategic goal is full-time. The 70 billion we can use for the productive reconstruction of the country is for us many. We hierarchise the distributions of all these available resources as follows: Additional direct measures, as I said before, to keep society and the economy alive. In this direction, some 20% of the programme should be allocated. In particular, fiscal measures and the introduction of incentives to relaunch the economy within a two-year period of now with 10% of the programme, alleviating the tax burden of enterprises and providing incentives for productive investment, providing incentives to create new jobs in the private sector. Completion of public and social infrastructures and social protection systems, such as the health system, the creation of the digital state, education in new skills, strengthening civil protection mechanisms within three years, with 20% of the programme's resources. Finally, with particular emphasis on investment towards a shift in production, the reconstruction of the development model in processing, tourism, support and transformation of small and medium-sized enterprises, the rural economy within a four-year programme. They are investments that can create new and well-paid jobs with 50% of the programme's resources. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, the abolition of the objectives for the surpluses, which is our main aim, will enable us to allocate at least 1% of GDP for several years, to the necessary defensive expenditure and to support the Greek Defence Industry. Our progressive governance programme ensures the relaunch of the economy. It tackles structural problems and not management issues. Of course, it is based on structural changes, progressive reforms and the necessary modernisations. First and foremost in the state, with the aim of being partisan, worthy of democracy and evaluation everywhere, of responding to the needs of citizens and businesses, of transparency in every function and of its effective decentralisation. But also systems of education, vocational training, reintegration of the unemployed are key to the time it comes. Accelerate the functioning of justice and regulators for a market that operates competitively, but with rules and controls for compliance with laws. The banking system can be liberated from the rocky of red loans and substantially contribute to the financing of the economy. Our proposal for a single bad bank with the participation of a state, individuals and banks is up-to-date as ever. It is a proposal we have tabled since 2016. When we first spoke about it, everyone fell on us and told us populists. Today the Bank of Greece is also proposing it and is constantly gaining ground. At last, do something! New regulations on labour and working relations, so that workers do not become the easy victim of changes. With dialogue with the social partners and with a strong framework of collective bargaining, the state must guarantee a social contract of the digital age with workers trained, safe, with decent wages and rights. Modern, bold, stable and progressive tax system that closes every tax evasion door, which creates certainty for businesses, which supports investment and employment, but makes use of taxation of the great wealth, to reduce social inequalities, drawing resources from there, for a powerful social state that leaves no one behind. Ladies and gentlemen, the effective and transparent management of European funds is a prerequisite for the success of each objective for our country. It is time to abolish all bureaucratic obstacles and investments to proceed with fast track procedures in the standard of the Olympic Games. In particular, for large-scale investments, all issues related to conditions of construction and land use must be resolved from the outset. It is neither a solution for efficiency nor for transparency to be fully monitored by the Prime Minister's office. The direct and by way of derogations, which we have been following all this year and a half, do not allow optimism for how to manage the resources of the Recovery Fund. On the other hand, they make us afraid of a 'part' of interests. We can't let this money go into the pockets of the few to get more rich. I therefore ask that the Greek Recovery Fund should come to Parliament and discuss the issue of the Greek Recovery Fund. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] Ladies and gentlemen, these funds are probably the biggest, but also the last opportunity for the country and this programme goes beyond the New Democracy government's mandate. You don't have a white check, Minister, to manage it as you judge. It is about the future of the country and not the future of your Government and of the New Democracy. So we will not allow you to proceed in secret. We are currently building up with our dialogue, even with teleconferencing, a broad front in society, a new social agreement guaranteeing that conservative policies will not dominate, that progressive governance is not only a vision, but also a demand for the progressive citizens in Greece for a new change with the Movement of Change Protagonist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, too. Now Mr. George Mulkiotis has the floor. You have five minutes for your protology and three minutes for your denology. Will you use both, Mr. Mulkiotis?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u16	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u17	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u18	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government's big bet, as it says, is to transform Greece into a plan - so it says -, a timetable and a lot of European funds, which - also says - will invest them properly so that they do not go missing, as the Delore Packages and the Mediterranean Integrated Programmes have been taken. And what is the political content of this supposed reform? It is the Pissaridis report, it is the 'holy writing' of BSE, it is a general analysis of neoliberal policies, but also a report of ideas that at its core are deeply anti-popular policies. This is essentially a counter-reformation, a reform of neoliberal cutting, the victims of workers and the redistribution of wealth in favour of the few and the favour of the government. However, some of the positive points appear very little in the Pissaridis report. And, of course, all this flagged by the National Recovery and Resistance Plan. Because crime must also have an alibi! So what's he gonna do? After a year with the economy in the freezer, small and medium-sized businessmen and farmers in despair, workers on job suspension - not to say repression - and the rest of the workers with imposing and without a legislative framework for teleworking, the government is now coming, as supposedly by a God machine, to tell us that with the National Recovery and Resistibility Plan, we will be relocated to another level, we will be transferred to another reality. And to mention the messages from Europe, which are unfavourable, because as we have learned to leave and stop teleworking, it has been suspended for three years now. The right to disconnect has unfortunately been suspended for three years. You realize what Babel will prevail. It will be a parallel reality in which employment and productivity of labour will increase through new investments, but also real income per capita through tax and insurance reforms, a fantastic universe in a so-called prosperous society. So what does the government say? That, for a year, he was deaf in the proposals that we made from the beginning, when it was early to create a comprehensive national plan, direct interventions to tackle the economic crisis, to keep society and the economy alive, is now coming to build a fantastic Greece. In fact, what did he do so far? Instead of adopting a universal plan for work and the unemployed, which has been tabled by a very early, costly and sustainable proposal for the world of work, by a State of 40% of the wages of a million private workers, on condition that there will be no redundancies, without a budget burden and a guarantee of income for the insurance system, New Democracy has insisted on its falsification programme, the so-called 'COM - WORK', which despite repeated corrective movements - yes, corrective actions! - its total valuation is fully failed. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, your government's policies are totally against us. Our differentiation is not typical. It's differential value. It is the way in which we see the social state and its role for the economy and society. For you, it is not important for workers to participate in the productive model. It is not a matter of dealing with poverty in social terms. You are not seeking to implement active employment policies and to support healthy entrepreneurship, which in our view is not without them. You, with the tools you are shaping and using, serve the extreme elasticity of industrial relations. So it is not the faulty flexicurity, where the state guarantees employers flexibility, but gradually reduces the incomes of workers, which the Pissaridis report publishes? That is exactly what is being applied faithfully. It applies from the Government of Mitsotakis to the labour market by strengthening part-time and rotating employment and the reduction of wages. Is it, then, accidental that the first change you brought to work was the abolition of the provision on the basis of the reason for dismissal? Is it accidental that you have created an environment of under-protection of workers, by discrediting collective agreements, by strengthening employers' immunity and by completely degrading the EIA? Is it accidental that, since the beginning of the pandemic, you abolished the eighth hour and liquidated the time of start-up and termination of work? You say that you have forged the minimum guaranteed income in the Constitution as a decent living net for the economically weak. But at the same time, if you do not ignore, you are really pretending that you are not listening to the proposal of the Change Movement to introduce the minimum guaranteed income for the pensioners of e-ECA, but also to activate the new CSCE, so that the monthly pension amount is not lower than that and that the pensioners of our country do not find themselves in extreme poverty. Digital transformation and the so-called revolutionary e-ECA is under dissolution. It is located in'red' and is characterized by complete opacity. I don't want to say what else's going on there at the e-funny. And, of course, any visits by the Prime Minister to the Ministry of Labour demonstrate to the Greek people that this supposedly great reform is unsuccessful, for which - not least - the European Union said it was the same as the Katorugalou legislation. Within eighteen months of governance, Minister, while you have dramatically increased the outstanding pensions, you hide your failure under the communication carpet. And you know why? For failure is not annulled by the simple reshaping of a minister, because the only truth is the actions, it is the government's specific policy. And your actions show that in order to get a pension in Greece it takes three and four years. And do you know how much he wants to communicate with the insurer to catch a line? On average fifty-four minutes. It was written yesterday and was in no way disproved or questioned. So this cannot be called a success of digital transformation. The minimum wage increase procedure was postponed three times. If that's not an escape, tell us what it is. The intensity of the climate of economic and employment insecurity and precariousness and the growing concern of private sector workers about the changes brought about by the pandemic that this period brings in relation to wages and labour rights is reflected in many studies, typical of the GFCM that saw the light of publicity the day before yesterday. In particular, six out of ten private sector employees have reduced their earnings over the past ten months, while teleworkers have worked without paying for the above hours. I told you earlier about the right to disconnect. It's on the bells. You are aware of the work guilder - of all kinds - either by the presence or by teleworking. You have formulated, Minister, in the National Recovery and Resilience Plan the axis to increase jobs and promote participation in the labour market. But you ignore the recent resolution by the European Parliament, in which the Member States are called upon to ensure that they offer good quality, diverse and adapted jobs, training or practical training to young people in the 'Youth Guarantees' programmes. With the unemployment rate of young people in Greece in July 2020 at 39.3%, while the rate of unemployed in the European Union was 17.6%, you really, what do you anticipate for them in the famous recovery and resilience plan? Nothing! What are you planning next? It is known that you are seeking to weaken the trade unions, to cut off the major employers, to abolish the minimum wages, to consolidate the unpaid overtime and the "split" of the cap overtime, to privatise subsidiary insurance. You tell us about technological training for the workforce, which will supposedly increase production significantly and will help to develop, sustain and resilience the Greek economy. How, Minister? With what? With the "scole" standards or continuously switching the entry into force of OAED 70/2019 for the OAED with a view to reforming it to an unknown direction? And we'll come back and talk about the OAED again. In recent times there have been signs and monsters with staff placements of the virtues of the IAEA, without worthyness and without excellence. And we denounce this in the House and we will come back. You are considering resources to increase access to effective and inclusive social policies. So now we're saying it. You do very nicely. Tell us, why do you not abolish the term "workable" for disabled or chronic illness people, which enhances the discrimination that these people experience? You're denying it. Tell us why. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude with the following: As long as work and workers do not receive the support and strengthening of their wealth, as long as the ADR is weakened, as long as the institution of independent collective agreements is not restored, as long as you deliberately delay the establishment of a progressive framework for regulating teleworking, which is developed on your own full responsibility and at the expense of workers, as long as the ADR is dissolved daily, fragmentation and inequalities in the labour market will increase and any provisions in the National Recovery and Resilience Plan to strengthen employment, promote labour participation, will unfortunately prove to be air words and false promises. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy policy is unfortunately creating a working gala. Greece cannot be converted into a place of cheap and devalued work. This is its policy and it does it every day because it is demanded by the anti-social, supposedly reformist, government orientation. Always supposedly! Society can't stand it, and you have to get that at last. The Change Movement will be dynamically at the side of the workers and the unemployed for the formation of conditions of economic development with a social, progressive mark. This will only increase the income available, rekindle the labour market, reduce unemployment, and thus forge what we social democrats are fighting for: fair and sustainable growth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u19	Thank you. Mr. Andreas Poulas has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the way you have run the pandemic has proved to be a crucial test for how you understand governance and what your government's priorities are. It appeared from the outset that they did not belong to public health support. So while in September 2019 we were pressing for more IF beds, for radical reform of the ESS and for organizing primary health care, you elsewhere turquoise. We have seen no attempt to improve and substantial changes, but we have seen a dry management without a vision. As expected, when the pandemic came, he found us unprepared. In fact - and despite the image of the media - you were panicking to assemble the uncomfortable, as follows: Opening the ICM beds without personnel and trying to send them with moves and distractions, i.e. with complete clips and abstractions. You were nominated arrow doctors and nurses with contracts to cover the huge gaps in organic positions in hospitals. You were running for personal protection, tests at increased prices through imports and donations. The fact that you increased public health expenditure due to the pandemic does not relieve you of your long-term poverty to plan and launch the changes and improvements required by the National Health System. We have repeatedly stressed what you should do from this Step. Today is a golden opportunity to regenerate the country as a whole through the European Recovery Fund, the ESDP, the National Development Programme 2021-2025, the 'SURE', and the new CFP. It's time to run a health revolution for the public health field. We want to believe that, after the pandemic, the government realised that this is a national priority, not only because a pandemic can arise again, and the system must be able to withstand, but also because we also have to protect the health of all citizens for demographic reasons. It is therefore a national matter for European funds to be used as the last euro in order to rebuild an anthropocent health system with social acceptance and broad recognition. With these goals we can raise the country's health map, create new structures, exploit and reward the scientific staff who have entered into the pandemic fire, and restrain the fleeing of our scientists abroad, giving young people an opportunity to offer, evolve scientifically and diagnosed accordingly. However, in order to proceed with the planning of the future, the parties and society must be consulted, activation, cooperation between all public health actors and the recording of existing problems, shortcomings, health needs by region. Do these have to be done without another time being lost, so that unavoidable and unnecessary delays can be given simple answers to simple questions such as: Is the country's distribution to the existing sanitary regions, or must they be planned in the territorial framework of the administrative regions? Is that enough public hospitals we have? Where are the conditions to create new ones? Can hospitals closed because of memoranda and under what conditions? Are there internal operating organisations? Should they be updated? How and when will the empty organic positions of doctors and nurses be covered and a permanent solution for paramedical staff be given? The administrations will continue to be party friends and executives? Or are we going to move on to a worthwhile process of showing them? How will hospital services be upgraded and how will their administrative function be improved? How will the supply of modern medical equipment and the real estate upgrade of our hospitals be organised in specific timescales? When will they finally work digitalally and will the patient's electronic personal file be implemented? What is your design for the ICU beds, especially in regional hospitals? What is your design for primary health care, mental health, patient rehabilitation, issues that emerged as critical in the pandemic? Will a permanent mechanism be created for dealing with pandemics when and whenever they appear? In other words, do you have a comprehensive political perception of what is going to happen? Have you predicted how to fund the changes permanently so that, when the resources for the Recovery Fund and the other European programmes are finished, we do not have to go back to zero again? Minister, we are ready to discuss reconstruction and the upgrading of public health as a whole. We call on you to use wisely and wisely the covetous European resources so that all citizens have the public health they deserve. By announcing projects, such as the e-mail patient file, which we have been discussing for ten years, or by recasting strategic goals without timetable, without planning and with no resources, things will not go ahead. In the health field, there are no party and government lines. The line is one and a national. At last, start the engines. Come and talk and start health reform quickly and targetedly. We will not accept European funds once again for the benefit of a few and the strong ones. That is why we are proposing that the European funds should be managed by an independent, impregnable body, which will assess the financing of actions in a worthwhile manner, transparently and in line with the real health needs of the pandemic. Words are over. It's time for actions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u21	You have a dentist, if you want, Mr. Poula. Mr Vassilis Kegeroglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, Greece, the political world, the government, above all, must concentrate on dealing with the difficult problem today, but at the same time it must prepare tomorrow, one that we deserve, tomorrow, which will lead to a sustainable path for Greece. Protection of the health of citizens and the treatment of the pandemic and its effects is certainly a priority and does not allow for inertia, reassurance, mistakes and especially repetitions. It requires a perception of the situation, of the ability to analyse and exploit scientific data and instruments with design and decisions, without purpose and with the sole aim of man in today and tomorrow. Therefore, alongside the proposals to deal with the difficult present and the measures to keep the economy alive and society upright, the Change Movement today puts on the table and tomorrow, which is very close, but also the future that, as the pandemic pointed out in a dramatic way, must focus on man, his life and environment, a different model of growth and production, with full respect for the environment and quality jobs, taking advantage of the achievements of modern technology science, with a modern social state, with a revitalization of democratic functions and institutions. The Change Movement talks about human-centered progress with social prosperity, which can be achieved, but it needs a will and a plan to leverage the country's potential, the wealthy resources and of course human resources. Economic resources, national and European, exist, are at our disposal. Rehabilitation Fund, RDP current and new, CFP, 'SURE', European Initiatives. Entrepreneurship and design, management capacity and inspiration. And this is where we call on you for unauthorised oligopoly, wrong choices, but also intentions and bypassing legal and institutional procedures. You serve another model away from the needs of the country and society. That's for granted. At the time of President Biden's first decision marks a policy for the United States, with the return to the Paris Agreement on the Environment, you are not interested in the use of 850 million from the European Union's emissions programme and you are driving a successful programme, the one for the 'EXOGO', to fail. We cannot - and we urge you to do so - transform the findings of the reports and the demands of the social partners for the economy and society into a political project, particularly in an implementation programme. However, we are going back to today and to the immediate measures. I believe that the data presented by the social partners reflect the bad reality of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, work and each family. With the opening up of the market, small and micro-enterprises, professionals, farmers, everyone will find themselves in front of accumulated overdue obligations, which are impossible to cope with with. We call on you for insufficient market support measures, hardships and the choice of transfer and accumulation of problems. That is why we insist that at least a hundred and twenty instalments should be made for all outstanding debts and starting payments for a significant period of six months thereafter. Delete the ice in all the social utility accounts - they do not have a fixed meaning when shops are closed - and adjust the debts for the rest. At least 30% of the 'haircut' obligations and the removal of fines and surcharges with the consistent fulfilment of the regulation. Bank liabilities freeze for a significant period. Integration into everyone's rent, regardless of the legal form. We call on you to consume money without such exploitation, without support for the sustainability of jobs, but also for the purposes and exemption from support measures for small and micro-enterprises and self-employed. We appeal to you, because you do not present the real situation at the "GENERAL - WORK" which is much worse than that shown by the figures behind the suspension and repression. Support for enterprises, for us, is absolutely linked to support for jobs in them. That is why we insist that a refund be made in 2021 for an overall amount equal to that of 2020 and that 70% should not be repaid. The 50% non-refundable rate you have recently applied for all the first three cycles. Supporting jobs in enterprises, supporting self-employment. We propose a grant programme for six months and support for the unemployed with a gradual reintegration into work. Integration of workers in suspension or unemployment into a rental payment scheme. We call on you for the failure of the programme of regions without efficiency and justice. Thousands of businesses were excluded from the distorting rules that you indicated to them with the failed model of central Macedonia. That is why we insist on new business programmes that are non-refundable from European funds with uniform rules, but that they be adapted to the specificities of the regions. We are indebted to you because you have not made sure that the banks give the necessary liquidity. While they raised 50 billion without substantially interest from the European Bank, they only gave 10% to the Greek market. In fact, very large enterprises and small and medium-sized enterprises were unequally financed and only 15% were met by the requests from micro and small enterprises. That is why we are proposing a programme for the provision of banking liquidity to enterprises, particularly to small and micro-economic activities. The state should put the guarantee and the money on the banks from what they took from the ECB. We propose and call for an interim financing instrument - and I would like you to pay attention to that, Minister - for the payment of the cheques, not the transfer of the cheques, with the guarantee of the public by 70% and a post-paid payment by the debtor with the charges. You grant a grant to a large company, the burdens on the bank, and at the same time you say to it "do not pay the cheques to professionals, engineers, people who have offered a renovation or a construction, or who, in any case, owes this operation". Intermediate banking tool - I repeat - with a guarantee from the public for the repayment of cheques obligations. Finally, we call on you to abandon the primary sector and the farmers who are drowning in the problems and the time they are trying to open the shops is closed by OPEKEPE. The IACC is not working. Have you gotten it? No payments and payments are made because, he says, he has delayed the notice for the technical consultant. Close the shop! I would like to point out - and I thank you, Mr President-in-Office - that we insist that the bankrupt account should be immediately set up for professionals, businesses and farmers and, of course, that the Financial Code and the auctions should be suspended by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u23	You got two minutes from your dentistry. You only have two minutes, with tolerance. The Minister of Finance, Mr Christos Stakoras, asked me for protology and denology. Come on, Minister, you have thirty minutes, plenty of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u24	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate is taking place almost a year after the outbreak of the health crisis, in which all over the world citizens' resistance has been tested, societies have felt insecurity, people's freedoms have been restricted, economies have been surrounded, national health systems have been pressed and, unfortunately, many human lives have been lost. 2020 left its print on humanity heavy. The scanning passage of the pandemic caused unprepared turbulence in a health, social and economic field, turmoil for which no country around the world was prepared. According to the World Bank's latest report, pandemic is expected to lead to a decrease in living standards in terms of GDP per head in most of the countries of the world, having caused the strongest blow from any other 20th-century crisis. It is estimated that 94% of countries will be affected, compared to the countries affected during the 1929 1990s, even from both World Wars. Ladies and gentlemen, in this unprecedented situation, the President and Members of the Change Movement have tabled a timely question, in which they have said so - and today - their disagreements about how the government manages, plans and implements the response to the health crisis and its social and economic consequences. I shall reply, as I am sure I am, in detail, to all, in my own assessment, unnoticed and unhappily reports of the question. Why, Mr. Colleague, in football it's important that the ball is on your feet! In particular: Firstly, the question is that the government has shown itself incapable of presenting a direct programme to halt the recession and the social problems caused by the pandemic. The reality is different. The government has faced the exogenous symmetric shock of pandemic and its effects to the best possible extent, with speed and efficiency. This is recognised by all, partners, institutions, markets, rating houses, but above all - and that is where we account - from the Greek society. We responded quickly to the challenge of pandemic by adapting priorities to policy making. I have heard the last speaker of the Change Movement for a series of acts or omissions, in his appreciation. I will abdicate the Movement of Change for his irresponsibility, for the maximalist proposals and irresponsible auctions. I would like to say to you that I have not heard from any speaker - nor from the President - costing. And let all the speakers hear new proposals, such as, for example, from the last speaker, I heard the following: The 2021 returnee should be as much as 2020. I didn't hear it from the President. New measures, therefore. So I'd like to have a sum.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u25	We've said it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u26	The President did not say so on the count.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u27	We've officially said that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u28	So additional measures. So what I did not hear - it is easy - is an amount: how much measures are being costed. Have you said that?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u29	You, Mr. Stakoura, have you cost yours?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u30	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u31	Please, no dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u32	How much are all the measures?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u33	Returner 5.5 billion.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u34	I'll answer that. We've given the evidence. It is therefore confirmed that the cost of the overall measures does not exist. That is what I said. I beg you for irresponsibility! The directness of our reaction is demonstrated by the fact that we announced the first package of measures as early as 9 March 2020. We then enlarged, extended and enriched interventions, covering at every stage of the health crisis in a timely and decisive manner the needs arising from developments in the health field. Because we made a choice, a right choice: health predominates and then the economy comes. This is how we managed to spread a network of protection to households and businesses. A feature of the vigilance they have shown since the first time in the government and state mechanism is that in February - November 2020, in the midst of extreme conditions, ninety-seven-seven regulatory acts were adopted on a zero basis - nothing had ever happened in the Greek state - to deal with the epidemiological and economic consequences of the pandemic, with priorities to strengthen the public health system, to support employment, to strengthen business liquidity and to stimulate social cohesion. We have supported - and we continue to do so - the real economy with measures totalling EUR 24 billion, fully recorded in the budget for 2020, and EUR 7.5 billion for 2021. And those who say that these measures - the part that is budgetary - are lower than the average European level, I will table you, the last of the European Commission, which was distributed this week to Eurogroup and ECOFIN and which confirms that the measures taken in Greece were higher than the average European and much higher than the countries - I have heard the President of the Change Movement - such as Belgium, Portugal and Spain. These are not our assessments, they are the European Commission and - I will repeat, we will prove that - we will be here as the Ministry of Finance for as long as necessary and as long as necessary. This package of interventions has been possible, because we have exploited with foresight, wisdom and responsibility every resource available to the economy, both European and domestic, with the country's cash outflows, in which we have ensured the replacement of outflows with inputs, cash inflows that we are talking about today - to some of my radios or even television interventions some days ago I said for 32.5, this has a dynamic - it is EUR 34.5 billion. Because, as you know, we announced it publicly - we have gone on to strengthen cash in funds by financing and lending operations and by the banking system, so debt refinancing. I heard two of them - I think failures. The first is that, yes, the cost of borrowing is low because the European Central Bank has helped. Obviously, the European Central Bank has helped. But I will show for the most part the table, for example, of ten-year-old bond issues in the country. In March 2019, it was 3.9%. In October 2019, we had no coronary, we did not have the European Central Bank. Cost fell to 1.5%. I think you can say that from 3.9% to 1.5% is due to the credibility and seriousness of the current government. Then, in June and September, we continued to have low borrowing costs and with the help of the European Central Bank. I would add that aid was also available in June, there was also in September. Because it dropped the cost of borrowing from 1.6% to 1.2%. Because the markets, apart from the measures taken by the European Central Bank, are aware of the seriousness with which we face, in the economic field, the consequences of the health crisis. I have also heard of black holes and a shortfall in tax revenue, because people cannot fulfil their obligations. You will allow me to tell you, before making this easy reading, that there are two more obvious answers. Firstly, a large part of the economy does not work. How will you get revenue, since a part of the economy still doesn't work? And, secondly, we have given almost all of the Greek society the suspension of tax obligations. So you realize that we have reduced revenues first because a part of the economy does not work, but because of the suspensions. And, indeed, we have increased spending, because we need to strengthen Greek society and we are constantly doing it, especially the middle and lower incomes. So in our knowledge this discrepancy between revenue and expenditure is in our knowledge. Yes, for months the country has been running at more than a year's revenue and the country's fund has been coming to cover this gap between revenue and expenditure. That is why the management of the country's fund and public finances would like to be very careful. Secondly, the question says that the government has shown inability or lack of will to present an integrated best use plan for the available European resources - which the current government of course has secured - which will contribute to the recovery and productive reconstruction of the economy. The reality is different. The Government is working in a timely, systematic manner with a plan to lay the foundations for the rapid recovery and then for the growth of the economy. For example, I will provide you with additional data today - that the total amount of funds to enterprises with the support of NSRF financing instruments from 2014-2020, i.e. loans and risk capital, was shaped only for 2020 at EUR 5.3 billion from the total funding for all these years of EUR 6.9 billion. In other words, from 6.9 billion in the past years, 5.3 billion was only in 2020. In addition, Greece is one of the first European countries to date, and so far among the sixteen Member States which submitted to the European Commission a detailed and mature first national recovery and resilience plan. This is the recent table submitted to ECOFIN on Tuesday. Greece is among the sixteen countries that submitted mature proposals. There are eleven countries that haven't done anything yet. It is a twofold project: on the one hand, to provide a sound basis for the optimal use of resources from the Recovery Fund and the other European programmes and, on the other, to redirect the Greek economy to a new, extroverted, modern, social law-abiding model of development, which will strengthen productivity and structural competitiveness, employment, investment, social cohesion. I heard in the places of my dear colleagues in the Movement of Change references to recovery plans and the Recovery Fund. These are two distinct topics, which are obviously interlinked. It's the development plan and how to fund the development plan. The government's development plan is the reduction of taxes and social security contributions, the expansion of the tax base, the control of expenditure through this review, the establishment of a framework of rules in public administration, the treatment of high private debt, the consolidation of the balance sheets of credit institutions, the implementation of the dismantling programme, the limitation of incentives and obstacles to investment, investment in endogenous sources of development - education, research, innovation - the creation of conditions for attracting human capital - as we are doing with fiscal incentives which we have recently legislated - the qualitative upgrading of sectors of the economy - such as agriculture and tourism - the creation of a substantial, strong welfare state. What is the purpose and purpose of this programme? It is the systematic increase in real income per capita to gradually converging on the European average. This involves increasing employment both by reducing unemployment and by increasing participation in the labour market in underemployed groups, such as women and young people. However, it also involves strengthening the productivity of labour through increased capital, new investments and integrating new technologies and innovative production methods. This is for the development plan. This should be financed and should be financed from European funds. What are European funds? The Recovery Fund and the New Programming Period 2021-2027. I have heard the President of the Change Movement say where he would like the funds to be distributed. But there are limitations! We cannot afford any Member State to make use of the resources at hand. The resources cannot be made available uncontrolled where each Member State wants. Every day we negotiate with Europe the pillars and the priorities for financing. That's the first. Secondly, not all investments are eligible. All road projects are not eligible, for example. Priorities have been set at European level. Please read the European Commission Press Release on 18-12-2020. It says that each country's proposal should be on six pillars, digital transformation, smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, green transition, social and territorial cohesion, health and resilience, policies for future generations, including education and skills. Look, for the axes there we agree, all these policies you say are not eligible.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u35	Minister, I...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u36	I heard what you said, Mr. Scandalides. Also very important: there must be a combination of investment reforms. In other words, they ask all the Member States how the funding of a policy will be linked to the reform of policy. So there are specific issues here. Our proposal is based on four pillars: the green transition with reforms and investment, such as an extensive energy upgrading and renovation programme in the public sector, businesses and private individuals, depobilisation, the energy interconnection of the islands, which will expand the use of renewable energy sources and reduce the energy costs of households and businesses. For example, it is the digital transition through the implementation of flagship projects and investments, such as the development of a network of 5G on all Greek motorways and the digital transformation of small and medium-sized enterprises. It is employment, skills and social cohesion with reforms and investments which, inter alia, will improve the capacity of the health system and the quality of education provided at universities, strengthen research and innovation, develop skills and strengthen social cohesion. And finally, it is private investment with high-level infrastructure, such as investments on the trans-European road network axes and the introduction and extension of digital tools to combat tax evasion and smuggling, such as the interconnection of cash machines across the territory with ADP. In 2021, EUR 5,5 billion from the Recovery Fund is envisaged directly. How much pre-financing? It was originally decided at 10%, later, as you well know, it went to 13%. What is Europe's most advantageous country of pre-financing? With data from the European Commission, Greece. Greece is the only country, the only Member State whose pre-financing rate in 2021 will exceed 1% of the country's wealth. There is nothing like this in any other country in Europe. This is the success of today's government. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] In fact, some investment projects and reforms that have a strong chance of being implemented through the Fund start before the final adoption of the National Recovery Plan with their integration into the Public Investment Programme. Projects and programmes include the new "EXOCONOLOGY", which will proceed directly, the first two local urban plans, reafforestation programmes, land restoration programmes in lignite areas, tele-education-related actions, many digital transformation projects by the Ministry of Digital Policy and ASE. I note that the Fund Regulation provides for projects, programmes and investments to be included from February 2020. Thirdly, the question is that the government has shown a lack of will to put the national plan into consultation with social partners and citizens. The reality is different. The National Recovery and Resilience Plan was consulted, the first phase of which was completed on 20 December. The Economic and Social Committee, as a competent institution, has already sent its positive opinion and detailed action proposals to each of the four pillars of the strategic guidelines of the project and points out that it will continue to promote the social dialogue procedures between all the social partners and organised civil society during both the preparation of the final Recovery and Resilience Plan and in its implementation. At the same time, with OpenGov.gr or at the invitation comments, comments and proposals were submitted by natural and legal persons and bodies other than those who participated in the ESC, including GSE, GSEBE, the Central Association of Municipalities of Greece, the Hellenic Association of Informatics, the Hellenic Association of Athens Stock Exchange, ELPE, the Association of Passenger Maritime Enterprises, the Hellenic Association of Professional Insurance Funds, "Greenpeace", "The Green Tank" and others. The Special Coordination Service of the Recovery Fund will draw up a relevant consultation report that will be used both in the preparation of the final plan and in the continuation of the relevant public dialogue. Moreover, the next period is expected to come before the Greek Parliament. Fourthly, the question is that the government has shown a lack of willingness to promote sustainable development and social cohesion policies with an emphasis on human, health and the environment. The reality is different. The main priorities of the National Plan are on the way to implementing such policies, both before and during the health crisis, we have designed and implemented policies involving the element of sustainable development and social justice. However, let us also talk about what we did in 2020 and 2021, with our dear colleague Giannis Vroutzis. We have strengthened and strengthened the low wages by giving special purpose, extending unemployment benefits, supporting the long-term unemployed under the programme to create new jobs. We are strengthening OPEKA's actions, with the amount of social benefits increased by EUR 600 million in 2021, we are strengthening social tourism programmes. We are giving an extended heating allowance next week in order to facilitate vulnerable households. We are implementing a state grant programme for the loan instalment for information and non-domestics. I'll come back to this. We are also supporting public health structures from the country's reserve. I will repeat that what the Ministry of Health's political leadership calls for to strengthen public health, outside the Ministry's budget, will have it! He'll have it from the Treasury! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We have also voted in favour of provisions on over-calculation of research and development expenditure and over-declaration of investments in a green economy, energy and digitisation. Overall, because I have heard this as well, for the systematic support of our most vulnerable fellow citizens, the 2021 budget not only provides for the abolition of existing allowances but, on the contrary, is increased by 22% compared to 2020. Fifthly, the question is that it is a problem not to deposit the Medium-term Financial Policy Programme. The reality is different. The European Commission, as of 6 April 2020, with a directive on the Stability and Convergence Programmes, has exceptionally allowed all Member States the financial programming for 2020 and 2021 only, due to the uncertainty that has arisen from the pandemic. For this reason, a medium-term budgetary policy programme has not been drawn up. However, the Stability Programme covering the period 2020-2021 was drawn up and submitted, as is done throughout Europe. Sixthly, the question is that workers' support measures are incomplete. I heard it today. The reality is different. We have discussed it very extensively during the budget. We supported with evidence, and I and Yannis Brutsis what the reality is. The government has given priority to maintaining jobs and protecting, as far as possible, workers' incomes. And he did it satisfactorily, better than many other countries. The evidence, if you'd like, I'll submit it today. With regard to the maintenance of jobs - there are two issues, namely the maintenance of jobs and the maintenance of income - all domestic and international reports and data acknowledge the effectiveness of government interventions. Even the evidence from the relevant Ministry of Labour confirms it. With regard to workers' incomes, the recent EUROSTAT European survey demonstrates that, after government support measures, the loss is considerably reduced, especially for low incomes. I remind you of the study that after Croatia and France, Greece has the third highest rate of loss of income due to the coronary and with much better performance on low incomes. Evidently, after giving special purpose compensation! This is therefore due to the implementation of measures to maintain and stimulate employment, such as special-purpose compensation, the 'PRODUCT' programme and to cover insurance contributions for the creation of 100 000 new jobs. The most important thing is that the maintenance of jobs has been set as a clause for state aid to businesses, which has also been legally reflected, unlike many other European countries. I note at this point that the Government has made this week a request to the European Commission for additional resources available at European level from the 'SURE' programme. All this demonstrates that economic policy has effectively supported, as far as possible, workers' incomes and the labour market, support that continues with additional measures, such as the reduction of insurance contributions and the abolition of a special solidarity contribution. Seventhly, the question is that the government was reluctant to direct resources, particularly Europeans, to businesses, particularly small and medium-sized enterprises. The reality is different. The government paid particular attention to supporting businesses with many measures and tools. And I will be very specific, because many airline: First, the repayable advance. The success of the measure is reflected in the large number of enterprises, professionals and self-employed, who benefited and benefited from the successive cycles of State aid from the first five cycles of this financing instrument. As for the fifth, the disbursement will begin next week. Liquidity will be channelled to the market totalling EUR 7 billion. To date it has been allocated to four hundred eighty - two thousand seventy - seventy - one single beneficiaries. You know very well from society, from the citizens that many have been funded by successive circles. Unique VAT: four hundred eighty-two thousand two hundred seventy-one. Of these 91% of the beneficiaries, who are four hundred nine thousand two hundred, received a total of this year up to 20,000 euros each operation. These are micro and small enterprises and will follow the sixth cycle in March. And because I heard something from two speakers of the Change Movement for Farmers - I retained the word "poor relative" and "abandoning the primary sector" - and because I am in the chapter of the repayable advance, I say very specifically: Of the first four returnees, cotton growing: eight thousand seven hundred twenty-eight, sheep rearing: eight thousand five hundred ninety-nine, olive growing for the production of olive oil six thousand seven hundred thirty-seven, rice growing: five thousand three hundred thirty-three, durum wheat growing: two thousand two hundred ninety-four, sheep rearing two thousand two, production of raw sheep: two thousand twenty-nine2, olive growing: one thousand nine hundred ninety-five, production of raw milk from ovine and caprine animals: one thousand eight hundred sixty-seven, sheep rearing live: one thousand six hundred forty-seven. And the list goes on. A sum of EUR 50 000 eighty-eighty-four farmers shared EUR 57.7 million of the repayable advances. And you're saying we've left them "poor relative" or "finished"? But that's not all we did. Wait. I would remind you that we have also given the Ministry of Rural Development 150 million. The 10.1 million already went for the production of flowers, 4.7 million for the production of sprats, 14.8 million for producers of popular markets, 30.1 million for sheep and goats, 37.9 million for table olives, for early watermelons, for spring potatoes, for glasshouses in tomatoes, cucumbers and aubergines. Isn't that a help?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u37	Have they been paid?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u38	These are paid-up resources. I have here the corresponding VAT codes and when money has been disbursed. So I fell apart with evidence and argument from the poor relative. Because I heard the criticism, but I didn't hear any evidence. I've given you evidence. Secondly, the financial tools of the Guarantee Fund of the Greek Development Bank and the entrepreneurship fund. A total of 6.6 billion of these tools have been placed on the market so far. More specifically, TEMPUS II has mainly been allocated to small and medium-sized enterprises EUR 1.9 billion. In the last sub-programme that runs, the average funding is around 60,000 euros. As far as the Guarantee Fund is concerned, more than EUR 4.6 billion has been allocated to businesses, of which EUR 2.5 billion to small and medium-sized enterprises. The second cycle of the programme now running has a much larger portfolio for small and medium-sized enterprises and the rate of approvals is now 82%. Finally, according to data from the Greek Development Bank, 75% of the approved loans relate to sectors such as wholesale and retail trade, repair of motor vehicles, processing and accommodation services and catering services. These branches have suffered considerable losses during the pandemic. Overall, it is worth noting that the Development Bank in 2020 disbursed tenfold loans to the period 2014-2019 and four times more loans to the previous decade. Third, we didn't stop there. There is an interest subsidy for existing loans from companies belonging to the affected sectors. There have been twenty-two thousand nine hundred ninety-eight-sixteen units of FTL, totalling EUR 212,2 million for fifty-four thousand sixty-sixty-sixty-sixteen existing loans. Fourthly, there is specific compensation for the firms affected in the first phase of the crisis. A total of EUR 494,3 million was placed on the market through the measure. Fifth, there is the suspension of payment of bank loan instalments in consultation with the Greek Banking Union for companies which have suffered losses as a result of the pandemic until March 2021. According to data from the Private Debt Management Secretariat and the Greek Banking Union, from the beginning of the health crisis to the end of December 2020, the possibility of suspending a instalment payment from banks and debt management companies to 405,473 loans totalling EUR 28,4 billion was granted. In addition, between July 2019 and the end of December 2020, it was successfully bilaterally regulated between citizens and banks, 396.621 loans - housing, consumer and business - totalling EUR 21.2 billion. Six, there are the tax and insurance premiums for households and businesses until April and their adjustment in twelve interest-free instalments or twenty-four at a low-interest rate. Seventhly, there is the cover of insurance contributions on the nominal salary and the employers' insurance contributions on seasonal enterprises. Eighth, there is a reduction and even a zero tax payment for businesses and a reduction in VAT on transport and focus. Ninth, there is a reduction in the rent for enterprises that have remained closed by decision of the State, especially for the months of January and February. These undertakings have been fully exempted from the payment of the rent, 80% of which is paid tax-free to the owners of the real estate by the State. Next week, we'll have a law order. Tenth, there is the suspension of securities payments and the provision of facilities for these bearers. Next week, the order in question will come to the House. Eleventh, there is a reduction in insurance contributions and the solidarity levy. We have reduced for the first time almost ten years after four percentage points - the last time has been in 2013-2014 - the insurance contributions of private sector employees. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The measure will benefit over two million workers and hundreds of thousands of businesses. At the same time, we have abolished the solidarity levy for incomes from the private sector. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Thank you, Mr President, for tolerance and apologies. I need three or four more minutes. I'm just trying to cover all the questions raised. Finally, twelfth, the Ministry of Finance, as has become clear, exploits and retires all available tools and regimes provided by the European Framework and matching domestic economic and business activity. In this context, as I had announced weeks ago in the context of the parliamentary control you have done to me, ladies and gentlemen, we are making use of Article 312 of the European Union's Temporary Framework on State Aid. In particular, a provision of a law to be tabled next week in Parliament forms a temporary measure of State aid to undertakings in the form of a subsidy for fixed costs. Aid may be granted to undertakings which have been financially affected in the form of the fixed costs subsidy under the support for uncovered fixed costs of undertakings. It will involve firms affected, which have had a decline in turnover during the pandemic period, but have also been damaged during the previous period, as they have not been able to cover their fixed costs. To this end, we are intensively preparing the new measure by the officials of the Ministry of Finance, as well as discussions with the European Commission. At the same time, we are participating with proposals in the negotiations on updating, improving and extending the Temporary Framework of State aid at a European level that is under way, negotiating higher ceilings for funding and new, better data for businesses. Ladies and gentlemen, the above proves that the government has essentially supported the business community so that the effects of the crisis are as small and irreversible as possible. It has taken measures that prevented padlocking, strengthening the liquidity of businesses and supporting employment. And this has been recognised by the European institutions, such as the European Commission, which has pointed out: 'The budgetary measures taken by the government are expected to restore large-scale redundancies and bankruptcy'. Indeed, according to GFCM figures, in 2020, despite the health crisis, the number of companies closed is considerably smaller than in 2019, while at the same time the number of new enterprises was three times higher. The government, however, will not stop here. It continues and will continue to be adjacent to businesses, operating in a methodic manner, efficiency, transparency and a sense of law. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the reality, away from triumphs and dangers. We live in the economy and society and not in glass towers, as I have said. We understand the concerns. We're listening to the pulse. We understand the difficulties. We respect the concerns of society. We have a sense of responsibility. We react directly. We manage quickly and flexibly the consequences of the crisis. Act with cool, clean and structured thought. We seek to minimize mistakes and limit omissions in these unprecedented circumstances. We are patient with society together. We're showing strength. However, we do not have any illusions. The next few months will be difficult. Return to normality will be gradual, not immediate. But, along with the challenges, opportunities are emerging, opportunities which as a country should be dynamically exploited together with our comparative advantages, historically, geographically, geopolitically, environmentally, along with well-trained and trained human resources and with the arms to deal with the disease in the field of vaccinations. On this we must be confident that our country will be able to overcome the squabble of the health crisis and enter a high, sustainable, intelligent and inclusive development orbit, setting the foundations for a future of prosperity, equal to the opportunities and opportunities of future generations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u39	Thank you. The Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement, Mr Michael Katrinis, now has the floor. Mr. Catarini, as you know the President spoke before you. And because you know that the parliamentary representative represents the President, you will have reduced time, of course, with tolerance. We'll start with the six minutes of the protology, plus three of the denology, and we'll see.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u40	Minister, I think we should get to know each other in this Chamber a little bit. I say this because yesterday the Prime Minister turned the time back to 2011, to the 'hidden's. You have invoked us for irresponsibleness, for pillistic proposals, for unspeakable and unspeakable remarks. Of course, you, too, said two months ago that PASOK put the country in the memoirs. I do not know whether Mr Mitsotakis, who was speaking about the 'indignant', is embodied in it. Of course you were in Zappeion with the others on the streets, giving the urban alibi to the "hidden". In order to get to know each other, what party are you talking about? We won't talk about our attitude from 2010 until you actually came. So you are giving us unnoticed and unfavourable remarks when we have submitted on 14 May an interim programme "Orthod society, a living economy". I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Michael Katrinis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] 'New change', 16 September. Full use of the resources of the Recovery Fund. Unresponsible, Minister, we. We're irresponsible? I'm filing it in the Minutes. On 24 April the Change Movement tabled a proposal to reduce the tax advance to 50%. Unresponsible? You adopted it in July, three months later. The Change Movement is irresponsible, isn't it? I'm filing it in the Minutes. On May 14, says the Change Movement - with Mrs Gennimata's teleconferencing - that the repayable advance must be increased at least 3 billion. I'll show you. You adopted it, you announced it on 20 July. Mr. Mitsotakis did it here in the House. I'm filing it in the Minutes. We're on. We have tabled a proposal for the new ERC. We have made proposals for most areas of everyday life. More than sixty amendments on issues relating to everyday life and the economy. We've asked questions that bring answers. This is the irresponsible attitude of the Change Movement that you, in the style with which you described us as responsible for the Memorandums, are leaving us again today, when public opinion even in polls says that its most responsible attitude remains the Change Movement. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Stakouras is talking about irresponsibility. He returned a year back when he himself turned back on February 9, 2020 - after the end of the year - to SPIEGEL while the pandemic had started to say that the country will catch growth rates of 2.8%. Is it or isn't it, Mr. Stakoura? Disprove me. Let's see who's irresponsible in this Chamber and who's speaking documentarily. You are talking about irresponsibleness, about measures of 7.5 billion in 2021, and you ask us that we have not cost our money. Yes, sir. You said today with a pompous look that you had 7.5 billion in 2021. Tell the delegation that 6.5 billion of the 7.5 billion will be used in the first quarter. You're saying we haven't cost the measures we're proposing. You have budgeted to give 85% of the first three months of 2021. Tell us what you're going to do with 1 billion in the remaining nine months. Have you cost the impact of measures all year round to all professionals, workers and all those in need? Disprove me in this, too. You, Minister, have said that you are responsible for the farmers. Yes, sir. You said you made a repayable deposit. All those who had a tick fall came into the back door. Horizontal. Everybody. All the charges. There was no exception. And you did very well. You are elected in a provincial prefecture, and I am sure you are in contact with the farmers. You are responsible for explaining to me why, after you gave Mr Vorides 150 million in April, what has been paid is 76.1 million? Because if we sum up what Mr Vorides said, with his signature, in his written reply, on 28 December 2020, even half of what you gave him, you are not able to give as compensation to farmers in 2020. They are, that is your ability, that you are giving us up for irresponsibility, because we tell you the reality of shortening revenues, of the recession that even now insists on 4.8% growth. When Mr Stournaras himself said 4.2% and all banks' economists say about 4%, you insist on 4.8%. She's in charge, too. You even said - I will say what you have said - that you have made a reduction in insurance contributions and abolished the solidarity levy. Let me tell you, Minister, will you keep it and in 2022, since you are now discussing it with the institutions? Can you assure the National Representation that the reduction of insurance contributions and the abolition of the solidarity levy will also apply in 2022? You can't. So don't say it as a measure, because I suspect you'll be forced to withdraw it. I hope not for 2021, Minister. I hope you don't have to get to this point. You said, I will speak on the basis of your words, your inputs and the use of resources. Now let's go to my favorite issue, the liquidity. We've discussed them too many times. I think it has a value to discuss, to see who's telling the truth and who's not in this Chamber. Ladies and gentlemen, the banks have raised 40 billion from the European Central Bank at a negative interest rate of 0.5%. At the same time, deposits have increased 17.6 billion cumulatively, 57.6 billion extra liquidity in the banking system in 2020. How many of these have been given to the economy? Near 6 billion - take note of Mr Voloudakis' favourite theme - with 6% interest rate, which is increased by month, much higher than the European Union's average. In fact, bankers not to take too much courage made us an announcement and said that in 2021 clean new disbursements would be 4 to 5 billion. So what do the banks do? They park liquidity in Greek public bonds available to the European Central Bank and make sure they also reduce interbank lending. Mr Stournaras himself said on 17 December that a very - very small part of the liquidity has gone to the private sector of the economy. And we accidentally have a credit extension to large businesses of 9%, to small and medium-sized enterprises of 1,9% credit expansion and, guess - to households of a negative credit expansion, that's not where liquidity goes from the banks. What does the government say? We were met the day before yesterday by the Responsibility Council, and he told us that he would monitor liquidity. The Racism Observatory, which was set up - I would remind you - after the second phase of the programmes with a clear reference to the founding law that it will not be involved in the procedures and criteria with which liquidity is granted by the banks. This provision, Minister, because I asked you in time, will you change it or will the banks decide again? You are talking about liquidity that you have given and you will give - very nice - and you have already announced EUR 50,000 for businesses up to 200,000 for projects. If the strict banking criteria do not change, whatever you say in this Chamber, the money will go to the same and the same thirty thousand companies in Greece that have a credit rating today for a total of eight hundred thousand corporate VAT. In fact, you have announced - and you have heard, ladies and gentlemen - that they will make the information available on liquidity provision public from now on public. We are pleased about that, but we hope that publicity is not just plaques, bars and numbers. You say to us: who are they who took the money with the public guarantee? How much they gave them. If the ones they took, they took on single criteria. In other words, if undertakings that had the same financial information and applied for the same loan amount eventually received the same amount. Know what the Greek citizens are, what the enterprises that took the first phase, TEPIX II, second phase, first stage guarantee fund, second phase guarantee fund, Return 1, Refund 2, Return 3, Return 4. Because some were taken from eight sources, perhaps some, Minister, took a grand from Return 4. That's the reality. So that is of great value. And to confirm what I am saying - so as not to say that we speak unnoticedly, that we are plundering, and that we are saying various things of our own - I am presenting here in the Minutes a Greek Development Bank, September 16th, a decision of the Board of Directors. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Michael Katrinis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] On September 16th, the Greek Development Bank's decision says that it is not eligible to borrow in the business plan that has received a loan under TPAX II and Guarantee. On September 16th, the Development Council says that those who took the first phase won't take the second one. This committee of Ministers is being made on the movement of liquidity and on 28 September, after twelve days, this decision is being changed. All those who took the first phase can take the second one as long as they do not have adverse trade behaviour. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Michael Katrinis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Why did you choose, Minister, to take both the first and second phases of the Guarantee Fund and to reduce even further the perimeter of the beneficiaries? As regards the returnee, is it accidental, Minister, that at this stage they made seven hundred and twenty-five thousand applications?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u41	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u42	Seven hundred thirty-two, very nice. I say there's five hundred thousand, five hundred fifty. Do we agree? What does that mean, Minister? That there's a thirst for liquidity. This means that all your programs have failed and there is only an advance left. Do you remember, Minister, when Mr Georgiadis in particular - I will not blame you - he went out to the channels and shared the billions, what party had told Parliament that the only liquidity instrument, when you arrived on the market, is the repayable advance? The Change Movement since the end of April 2020, when you were bombing "music" liquidity through the media the professionals who never got it. That's the reality. What do we suggest? We've been through it before. Because it has not been made clear to you, I will report posted positions of the Change Movement. Increase in a repayable advance of ECU 5.5 billion in 2021, the same amount as 2020. 70% in 2021 be aid and 30% loan and apply the 50-50 scheme to all three first cycles of the returnee. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] I would like two minutes, Mr President. For the regions, Vassilis Kegeroglu said so very well. Some were raped to share money for unwritten votes and later found, on testimony, that once again as magically, with a New Democracy Government - indeed the one who agreed the programme is no coincidence that he was a candidate for the New Democracy - the self-employed and the micro-enterprises were excluded too. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] Now we're going to the loans and the auctions. For bad Bank, the president told you. I ask, Minister, is it serious in a country that the central banker has submitted to you for four months a proposal for the management of the'red' loans and not the government's official position? Tell us, agree or disagree, sees it as a supplementary measure, rejects it? I see Mr Stournara every week at a press conference, an interim exhibition at conferences, reintroduces the issue of the lack of management of'red' loans, suggests bad bank, fish silence! I've never seen the government's official position. And, of course, you're talking about a reduction in loans when you know that everything has gone to the funds and that total is over 100 billion. So we ask you directly - Mrs Gennamas has told you - this. Will you bring a provision to suspend first home auctions, yes or no, or are you hiding behind joint ministerial decisions on lockdown? In fact, Minister, you said that, in consultation with the Banking Union, you had nine months to suspend loans in April. Since the Banking Union has now announced a nine-month suspension of loans. Why didn't you do that in consultation? Why is it not an extension of the suspensions, but is it only for the information loans? Did the banks themselves ask to suspend the loans? The programme is a programme for GEOGRAPHY. You had budgeted for giving 108 million in 2020. They are elements from Mr. Kourmossi's platform, 23 million out of 108 million in 2020 and you say you will also build "GEYRA" for businesses. If you go at these rates, I'm afraid we'll go in September and it's probably a pre-election period then and it might be a good thing to say it as a pre-election promise. But I am sure businessmen will not see it as a means of relief. It's bankrupt. You on 16 December 2020 on the Capital Link Forum step you insist and say that the bankruptcy will be implemented. Five days later, an order comes to the House. You were not here to support her. You said you would also do state "TILISIA". It is right that you do state "TELLERIA" to control the credit rating and not just banks. Are you going to go ahead or are you vetoed by the banks? The unprecedented worldwide - your order - which precedes the bankruptcy of the extrajudicial, this, I really don't know. You're being pushed by management companies. That's true. They ask for another extension so that they do not lose the opportunity to manage the loans.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u43	Slowly finish, Mr. Katrin.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u44	I shall conclude, Mr President. As far as the Recovery Fund is concerned, we have tabled specific proposals, which I think reflect on all the points you have just mentioned. Digital transformation. Mrs Gennimata said so: 'green' development. Mr Arvanitides said so: social cohesion. Mr Mulkiotis said so: sustainable development. Mr Kegeroglu said so: a policy for the next generations. We all say it daily in the Change Movement: health. It has haird our tongue to say about strengthening the public health system. So what of this, which we are proposing, is not on the eligible axes, which you say are negotiating on a daily basis with Europeans, but do you not think it is appropriate to discuss with the Greek parties in a serious consultation and I hope not with a fast track process, urgently, when it comes to Parliament? Now, for special-purpose allowances, a budget of 2021: I think that my memory is not cheating on me, but on too many codes, for example, with regard to seasonal compensation for tourism workers or other categories, I have seen too many zeros. If I remember correctly - I had it summed up - it was fourteen zeros. We've been talking about liquidity. We've been talking about farmers. The farmers have not received, Minister, and I am truly surprised that you and Mr Brutsi are being elected to the county prefectures, and I am sure you have been in contact with these people, because you have been parliamentarians for over thirteen, fourteen years, if I am not mistaken - no suspension of tax obligations, no suspension of insurance obligations, no suspension of credit obligations. Where did that lead, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u45	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u46	Where did that lead, Minister? You have brought your ignorance to an amendment, a Christmas precipitation, that's where your ignorance led...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u47	And that's what you're closing up with.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u48	I'm done. It's my last conversation. ...for the inconsistency of COVID allowances. Why did you do that? Because you have finally seen that 60% of farmers and farmers owe and could not get the compensation they are entitled to because of COVID. So to them, you have not given tax and insurance suspensions and all that is done is done. Ladies and gentlemen, I am holding back the positive communications on Article 312, the activation of state aid. It will indeed be a very good measure to stimulate liquidity and not a bit of liquidity. I hope that the EUR 100,000 ceiling for the returnee will also apply, which I hear you are thinking about. And because you are accusing us - and it is my celebrity comment, Mr President, and thank you - of populism, because we are talking about a hundred and twenty instalments and 30% of the debt to the consistent borrowers, I would like to say this: you, Minister - and correct me if I am wrong - have not made a haircut to Return 4 out of the 100% loan to 50%, yes or no? Aren't you in the bankruptcy officer predicting that we can go up to two hundred forty instalments with the possibility of reducing the total debt? Of course, with your bogeyman, that's only the banks. So what are we asking you for? As the banks will reduce the entire debt and will be able to give two hundred forty instalments to the bankruptcy, which you have so passionately brought and defended in the House, this right to exercise the Greek State, the state, which must at these times be the pillar of security and support for each Greek citizen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr Katrin. I put on your tritology, too. Good morning, and from me, ladies and gentlemen. Have a nice day. We shall now proceed with Mr Ioannis Brutsi from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u50	Mr President, thank you for giving me the floor, as is provided for in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u51	Yeah, I didn't do anything. I did my job.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u52	But let me quote to you congratulations on the great tolerance of time to the Parliamentary Representative of KINAL.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u53	I thought you'd tell me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u54	I would like to see a similar approach. That's what I'm saying. And I call it a good thing. Nine minutes has become nine!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u55	I've been expecting it from you too, and I expect Mr. Pappa to do it. That's what Mr. Katrinis does, and then let me get this over with! But let's move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u56	But it is interesting, Mr President, because there are many things going on here. On this basis I would like to start my position by saying that the Minister for Finance of the Government Mr Christos Stagiras, with a complete, fully documented and, above all, responsible analysis of all the interventions made by the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Development, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Health as a whole during the pandemic period, and not only, analysed in a comprehensive and structured manner and gave clear answers to what the KINAL side has just put forward as a timely question. But, on the other hand, Mr President, it is notable that I, for so long as I try to make a haunt of what was said by the speakers of KINAAL and by the President of KINAL Mr Gennimatas, who was recruited today to present the positions of KINAL, attempting, therefore, to do this, I draw two conclusions. This is a purely irresponsible position, which, however bravely Mr. Katrinis tried to show otherwise, did not succeed, is purely irresponsible and I will explain why. Secondly, I have seen a competition, a political dispute between KINAL and SYRIZA who will be more galantomous and who will give most.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u57	We haven't talked yet.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u58	The positions are well known, Mr Papa, of SYRIZA, so I see the SYRIZA-KINAL conflict who will share and give most. On the basis of the proposal by KINAL and the topical question, as heard by the Step of the House, to substantiate and irresponsible, it cannot be different, Mr President, when the President of KINAL, who has presented pages of whole proposals - that is a reality - did not say a single number. He didn't present a single number, so for the eyes of the world. How much does that cost? How much do the billions that KINAL shared today? He didn't say anything, he didn't show anything. And so, as the Minister of Finance, Mr Stagioras, has said, as the Minister of Finance, Maximistically and irresponsiblely, comes and presents a series of proposals that are unrealistic, unrealistic, because the country's budgetary tolerances are specific. Now note the element of the contradiction. On the one hand, Mrs Gennimata comes and blames the government for the deficit in the pandemic of EUR 22.8 billion and says 'what you did', 'how did you do this', she blames for unemployment, for flexible forms of employment, for non-paying pensions - we will say that - and on the other hand, she comes and adds dozens of other proposals from many billions of unconscious people - without any contradiction - without saying where the money will be or how much it costs. It's the well-known old PASOK renamed KINAL. That's it. Unfortunately, no matter how much they try to show their responsibility, they do not. On the other hand, Mr President, having the responsibility of governance in an unprecedented period, this pandemic, which globally penetrates all the economies, has been presented by the Minister for Finance and the Government - it is well known - what measures he has taken, what initiatives he has developed with a dominant aim of three things: first health. Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis himself from the very first moment laid the health of people. And it seems that in both the first wave and the second wave, with greater difficulty, we are going better than other European countries. The maps showing Greece green are the indisputable testimony. Secondly, the data relating to workers. At the heart of our policy is man, it is well known. So the man at the heart of our policy has had the necessary protection, both the worker and the unemployed. We have OAS programmes on the one hand, new programmes, innovative, 100 thousand jobs, by the way, that SYRIZA did not vote for. They have so far been created by this programme of twenty-thousand new jobs. Thirdly, subsidies for the unemployed, long-term unemployment, social protection for the weak. For example, Mr President, in this pandemic we are experiencing today in the country: they were given from the minimum guaranteed income - the creation of this government in 2013-697 million in two hundred and three thousand families. They were given by A21 -- and that was when it was created - family allowances of EUR 945 million in seven hundred eighty-eighty-eighty families. 123 million were given to thirteen thousand families, the birth allowance that we have created today, this government within the pandemic! Even 1 euro did not reduce the state's social benefits. On the other hand, on matters relating to the protection of workers, on these suspensions of contracts of employment or on the allowance we gave, the EUR 534 plus full insurance cover on the nominal wage, so as not to lose a single pension right of the workers, only yesterday the "ERGANI" announced that we gave 5.5 million payments. "ERGAN" did! Are we thinking of the country without "ERGANI", Mr. Pappa? You used to fight her in 2013. You called it the 'Brutsi Monastery'. Not you, your party. If there was no "ERGANI", workers would be in line to get paid. ERGANIS was paid EUR 3.5 billion for the workers. At the same time, this comes to be confirmed by ELSTAT's most indisputable and reliable data, which shows that unemployment in October is 16.7%. It's the same as in October 2019 that was 16.7%. In total, Mr Stavura's budget fell out. You've made a mistake, Mr. Stakoura. It shows the 2020 budget, ladies and gentlemen - and this is the good thing - that unemployment will be 18.9% in 2020 in the pandemic. That was normal. Unemployment will fall below 17.3% of 2019, in an artificial way, of course, due to the circumstances, but it is a fact. And I ask there in KINAL to read the evidence a little, don't come in. The annual "ERGANI" again shows that in 2020 in the pandemic, we had ninety thousand positive positions, ninety-three thousand three, plus three, plus one, what you accused for years of escalating full employment. It's over 51.5%, while it was 45% in 2019. These are undisputed figures from the official figures provided by "ERGANI" and ELSTAT. This is the presentation for the work, for which KINAL's side has spent so much time. Let me go to insurance. Mr President, I will repeat this: Greece has now won a modern insurance system. L.4670, the 2020 reform came and will remain. No one can disturb its balance. It came with a proportionate study, which neither SYRIZA nor PASOK did in the old years that he was "evaluating" the insurance, to work for political intervention. That's what PASOK has done for years. And I now have to make criticism and reference to the future, because, when I took over in 2012, we did not even know how many pensioners we have yet to pay. It was a completely dissolved system full of "monitor" pensions and we built it with the reform of "ELIOS". That's what we did. And in 2020 with the support of the Ministry of Finance - to say it - the Government of Mr Mitsotakis decided to restore injustices. We gave by our new law and based on the decisions of the Council of State to two hundred and fifty thousand supplementary pensions, to reform the requirements of the new law on insurance reform, 300 million euros. We gave a million fifty-one thousand pensioners 1.4 billion euros. We gave a hundred and fifteen thousand pensionable debts in 2019. We gave eighty thousand widow's pensions from 50% to 70%. They were unfinished at SYRIZA. And, at the same time, we first built the National Social Security Agency, a body that at the end of 2021 will have changed its appearance and will be the most modern and the most advanced. We have also created the issue relating to the digital pension for "ITLAS". Mr Katrin, the farmers to whom you are interested now have smaller contributions with the insurance law that you did not vote for, and now the pension of young farmers comes out in a few seconds' time with the "ATLAS" as well as the widow's pensions. And since there is also a reference to old pensions - you did the wrong thing yesterday, but you have received your answers - with the figures which will be announced in the 'ATLAS' report, I would like to say that we did not have these before, these have now come out on Brutsi, total transparency. I used to ask Mrs Ahtsioglu, and she had never answered what the outstanding pensions were, never, and now no one has to ask in the political system, now they go out automatically. So I would like to say that in 2020 a hundred sixty thousand seven hundred seventy-seven pensions were awarded. And this figure, to repeat, a hundred sixty-one thousand seventy-sevenths of a pension was awarded in 2020. A record of all time. The most shocking is not the amount of pensions awarded but it is that this was done with half the staff due to the pandemic and also the most impressive is that the average pensions of all previous years were a hundred and fifteen thousand. That's my answer. And that government did that in the pandemic. That is why I say, Mr President, that it is hypocritical and irresponsible all this timely question of KINAL, which has come unspeakable and unspeakable. He's come to present unexplained, pillaging, suggestions inapplicable, impracticable, fiscal utopian. We are a responsible government. We know where we're going to get the ship and we're doing good. The wheel is kept by the Prime Minister. We all have an order coordinate, to pass the storm and storm into the sea, which passes our country as safely as possible. And we manage to date and in 2021 it seems to be the year of relaunching, social and economic, for the country. So here we are, with a balance, a measure and a compass of responsibility, realism, to move the country forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u59	Thank you too, Mr Brutsi. Mr. Nikolaos Pappas has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr President. One wonders whether there is a sense of the environment in which today's debate is taking place, because here we would expect the Minister of Finance to focus on the issue of the timely question that the Change Movement has raised and explain to us why things have gone to the economy as they have gone. The country is a champion in recession and deflation, Mr Stavoura, and you have been up to this step and instead of explaining what happened, why didn't you hear the proposals of counter-population? We have also twice made proposals in two packages "We stay upright I" and "We stay upright II" and have now ended up getting past all countries in relation to the size of the recession and being first in deflation. And we're entering 2021. Instead of coming here to tell us two things about how to overcome your administrative failure to absorb European funds, you say that you have done everything well. Well done, congratulations! So, what's gonna happen in 2021? What do you say to Mr. Mitsotakis that 2021 will happen? Tell me. We're really interested in hearing it. The CPE came out and said in semester we're going to have 4% recession. Are you questioning that assessment? Why are you questioning her? How? You will finish the money in two - three first months and the support measures you have said about 2020 are in a large part of the postponed taxes. April will come and the businesses and households will be invited to pay them. What's going to happen in 2021? Will you come to September - October to submit a budget to go to surpluses? We didn't hear anything there either. Is everything okay? Is the budgetary path the same? Is there a matter with the partners? Do you put the matter on the agenda, or do we go to a budget for 2022 with the objectives that existed before the pandemic? It's a big deal. The exercise won't come out and we'll have the current results. Mr. Brutsi, we have listened carefully. Today we have a press release, the ADEDY that disproves you, I think, in a very well-documented way and if you want answers, to address them to the workers' organizations as well. Banks, Mr Stakoura, have taken 52 billion liquidity from targeted projects to support businesses at a negative interest rate and do not channel them. It was said before. You didn't seem to be concerned about this. And I would like to ask you the simple question: is an operation which, in the common sense, has "shooted a door" in the programmes guaranteed by the State, TPIX and COVID, can be financed for its part for a recovery fund project? To understand all who are concerned with the Recovery Fund, which you are surrounding as the sacred diaspora of the reversal of our economy. You didn't miss it. You admitted that at best it would be 5 billion dollars in 2021, wouldn't you? We are not talking now about any amount that really can bring things up. People listen to this and you turn around and you listen to entrepreneurship organisations. What happened to all of them and they say that there are two hundred thousand businesses in danger with closure? Have you seen the data on the state-guaranteed programs? How many businesses in the focus and tourism have received from the guaranteed Coronary Programme as support? Sixteen. The banks, Mr Stakoura, have become the great patient of the Greek economy. It's crazy what we live in. Fifty billion liquidity on the one hand, the drowning of businesses on the other, and the account on the taxpayer. Do you have plans to do something about it? We didn't hear anything. It's okay! You have taken the measures here, as if we were discussing the budget again, about what you have done and what you have not done. We've made our criticisms. We were telling you early 'take measures'. You didn't hear us. We have now reached the recession and you are coming to tell us that you have done everything well. And the Commission admits it, too, that the economy will recover with your policy. I think that you are at a very long distance from what really happens, from the needs of society, and that is, I think, indicative of how your protracting economics is approaching. We've told you all along, we've seen it, that the recovery fund money you want to keep for the survivors. Unfortunately, and whatever voices on the conservative party were different, they have come close to the logic behind the Pissaridis plan for the violent liquidation of the economy. And with the violent liquidation of the economy, the Greek society and the Greek economy will be slow to recover. Do you adopt it, too? Stand up in your dentistry and say "Greek businesses are not zombies". We need the business world to hear this. It is misery to evacuate these things, to record them in official exhibitions and to be reproduced by government officials. That's not supposed to happen. The Greek economy to recover, first of all, must have a support package, which we have put forward a few days ago, and the cover of insurance contributions and the extension of the aid for rental costs, of course the regulation of the debts of the coronary, the generous debt regulation, which also includes a 'cut', and the story with bankruptcy law must be finished. Withdraw this immunity permanently. Don't go to the extensions. No problem will solve. It will speed up the violent recession, multiply it and multiply the problems for the Greek taxpayer. GDP, if you do not have it in mind, has already reached the 1996 level. So none of the financial staff can go up to this Step here and celebrate. One would expect, when the crisis started, that all the machines would get in front of it. You deviate from public procurement rules for a number of supplies and works. In the big projects, in the projects which really can raise the country's production capacity, you have bolted. Two years have passed and nothing has been spent. Announcing, regression, stagnation. From the metro of Thessaloniki, BOAK, Patras - Pyrgos. And I fear that there are too many delays in digital projects, which could be an escape of economic activity, which also leaves a very important footprint. Can I give you an example? Why, since the beginning of the crisis, do not tell me that you did not know that there would be a second wave of pandemics and that you would have to go to Lockdown - were not supported by companies to develop e-commerce? We had the recursions of the Ministry of Development, the back - click away, we will not shut you down, we will not open you up - to retrospect that only 15% of businesses were able to offer e-commerce services. How much wisdom did he now want to be able to say that we are going to organise a project, help the Greek company develop such types of business? Nine months have passed. He didn't need wisdom. He needed political will. We don't think you're fools. We don't think you're foolish. We do not come here to testify that you have a plot of conspiracy in your mind, but you are trapped, you are bundled of ideas destructive to the Greek economy and society. That's the truth. I sincerely hope that the bells, which are hitting the market, will also reach your ears and that there will be a turn, which must also concern the level - as I said before - of the financing of businesses. Let me say about the large digital projects, which should not be underestimated to be a huge piece of funding, which can and should be channelled there. As former Minister for Digital Policy, I would like to put forward my concern, because it is clear that the private sector is not at the moment able to absorb the huge sums provided. We would encourage you over there to take faster steps.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u61	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u62	I shall conclude, Mr President. It is, of course, one thing that we have recorded, that you have publicly admitted that the large digital horizontal projects, which we have started, are progressing. We recognize that. But here we are seeing delays, which are not explained. Unfortunately, Mr Staikoura, and I am sorry to say that, we have waited for some explanations today. There's been a cosmogen. You cannot deal with and go up to this Step here as if there are no such developments around us. We're champions in the recession, champions in deflation. Things aren't right for 2021. The festivities are no longer convinced. So take your measures. Listen to the proposals of progressive counter-population and try to convince anyone that the conservative party can fundamentally protect the interests of the economy and society. Because you are in danger, for the second time in a very short time, as an order to identify yourself with the major economic disasters that have occurred in Greece over the last decade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u63	Thank you very much, Mr. Pappa. To pass to the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Christos Katsotis. Here, Mr Katsotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Mr President. I expect the same tolerance in time. By questioning the question, KINAL claims that conditions allowed other management of the pandemic and the crisis, since the funds, as it says, were full of them, the European Union was not indifferent and numb but maturer and with decisions to secure financial tools for recovery of EUR 1.8 trillion and that the political climate, while it is milder and not split, the government takes authoritative decisions. They also claim that the modern social-democratic positions for sustainable development and social justice aimed at anthropocentric progress are not only up-to-date but also strictly necessary. As the Parliamentary spokesman of KINAL presented, some of their proposals were implemented by New Democracy and criticised the others, which he considered necessary. Gentlemen, to deal with the pandemic liberal and social democratic governments followed the same recipe as deadly consequences for the people. The functioning of the capitalist economy, the measures to tackle the new deep capitalist crisis and not the protection of the peoples were a priority of all governments, liberal and social democrats. Its management and social consequences have an anti-grass, class mark in capitalism. In the logic of cost-benefit, the minimum income policy, minimum rights - a European Union policy - dominated everywhere. This framework also defines and defines the specific options for dealing with the pandemic, by adjusting any health protocols to the requirements of business groups, the lack of controls at workplaces, the various structures, with measures for workers to the acceptable limits set by the representatives of business groups. The social consequences are not only limited to coronary deaths. They are about the dramatic consequences of physical and mental health from the inability to meet acute needs, from the increase in poverty and unemployment, the interruption of living education function for young people. The question is that the European Union was not indifferent and numb but maturer and with decisions to secure financial instruments. The decision by the European Union to make a joint loan for the first time, to grant grants, other than loans, to Member States and, in turn, to the large business groups is seen as a step forward, of course, financing which the people will be asked to pay. In the name of exceptional conditions of employment protection promotes an increase in exploitation, the imposition of a lower labour force by converting contracts, the reduction of wages, the further optimisation of working time, in order to keep the downward trend in profit rate down. The policy of full compensation and strengthening the private pillar in the insurance system is being established. At the same time as the lives of the workers and the people are being swept away, a thick state money is being channelled through subsidies, tax exemptions and large-capital insurance regulations, all of which you all support. The increase in the size and profitability of capital not only goes hand in hand, but is the major obstacle to the well-being of the working class and people, according to the existing technological and productive potential. The huge concentration of capital did not lead to capitalism with a human face. Undeniable wealth concentrated on a handful and on the other hand, the tails of the unemployed, extensive poverty, the clear weakness of public health systems revealed by the recent pandemic, the pressure, the increase in exploitation. These are the consequences of a rotting system. No proposal for urban management can eliminate the root cause of the crisis, which is the very exacerbation of the fundamental opposition of capitalism between the social nature of production and the individual capitalist specificity of its results. The government, during the pandemic period, did not stop its anti-lingual work. He's about to bring the reactionary bill for the HEIs with the establishment of a special police corps for the universities, to subdue the student movement. It is also prepared to carry out the bill implementing the Pissaridis proposals on the privatisation of subsidiary insurance and not only the abolition of eight hours, the abolition of overtime pay, the reduction of democratic and trade union freedoms by means of a new trade union law, any fight to defend rights will be seen as a peculiar offence and will be prosecuted criminally. And in order to be implemented, the announcement of the bill limiting, abolishing the right to mergers, protests by workers and the people also came. The unscrupulous leadership of the GSEE, the forces of social democracy - old and new - and liberalism responded to the call of the Minister of Labour, giving the alibi to implement the flagic overturns that worsen the position of workers and the people, which strengthen the dictatorship of capital. All this anti-Hallian arsenal, especially since 2009, bears witness to the conclusion of all the urban parties, regardless of whether they are on the government's or counter-population side. The people have a path to choose, the way to break and overthrow with the barbarity of the system, the way to claim their modern needs. The class labor movement with "disciplined indiscipline" in the barbaric policy organizes this struggle to protect the health, life and rights of workers and people. The JRC is taking the lead in the struggles of the working class and the bio-populist farmers and the IBC to defend their lives. We have tabled amendments, proposals for a law on the protection of the unemployed, in particular to ensure that workers in food - tourism, workers working in the tourist season, transport workers, artists, whom the government rejected, as did the proposals for a law on collective agreements, minimum wages, for the abolition of insurance laws by restitution of pensions and insurance benefits. Workers need to draw conclusions and strengthen their participation in the struggle for what they own. The day before yesterday, we tabled a new proposal for a law on the relief of bio-populous farmers and EBE by means of concrete measures, Minister, and we would like you to see it and answer it when you bring it up for discussion. The JRC's forces go daily to try to open a racing path leading to social liberation. We are at the forefront of trying to coordinate and organize the struggle for workers, to pay the capital, not the people, for the new crisis. We are making a decisive contribution so that today's wages, the protection of the unemployed, the discharge of the people's households from the debts, the sole public security for all, the protection of the health and safety of workers, the real opponent, the power of capital and not just the government and the urban parties that serve it. The aim of the struggle is to demand that large capital be taxed, that NATO spending should be stopped, that anti-grass laws should be abolished. We are firmly and decisively strengthening the political struggle for release from the European Union and NATO, with the people owners of the wealth they produce. There's another way. It is not fatal to increase the distance every day, the gap between modern technological and scientific capabilities to ensure social well-being and the current state of relative and absolute impoverishment, the insecurity experienced by employees, the self-employed, the unemployed, the pensioners. The authority of the working class for which the JRC is fighting, socialism is the answer to the acute people's problems in the 21st century. The real new one is the central design of socialism, the social relationship which allows the use of means of production and the distribution of labour, according to scientifically defined objectives for popular prosperity. The modern era of rapid scientific and technological development, the digital economy and the passage to the fourth industrial revolution give rise to new possibilities for socialist construction. We call on the employees, the self-employed, the unemployed to come out fighters and definitively from the swamp of the crisis and capitalist exploitation to fight for Greece and Europe of socialism.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u65	Thank you very much, Mr Katsotis. Mr. Vassiliardos is called in Stepma from the Greek Solution. Here, Mr. Villardo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u66	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, let us not exaggerate with the crisis. Portugal, for example, also had a fall in its GDP of 13.9% in the second quarter, but almost equal growth in the third, as I will present in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We failed. Your government has failed miserably. You do the same as in 2004-2009 that you overcharged Greece. You have reached the primary deficit of EUR 18.2 billion, the budget obviously around EUR 24 billion, to -15% of GDP, by 2009. You launched the public debt at 210% of general government GDP, the central government probably passed 230%, and the private at 150%, perhaps more if you count on the government's increases. No one could manage our economy any worse. You will do the same in 2021 expected tens of thousands of "luketta", especially in the focus. As far as the measures are concerned, did you really tell the Greeks that they are in loan and that they will pay the multiple? You have, however, fed us with the big words. Only liberal is not the policy that you are following, as much as rational. You have led Greece to a budget derailment without precedent. If we look at the 10% recession, despite the support of the economy with 24 billion euros, according to your statements, then we will better understand the disaster that you have caused. But it is not just a "job" of many businesses, Mr SYRIZA's colleague, the whole country is a "job". As for deflation, has the Minister really told the Greeks what it means to the real public and private interest rates? Shouldn't they know? As far as we are concerned, I should like to say that, first of all, we did not really want to talk, not least by noting that the purpose of KINAAL's question - KINAAL, of course, as far as PASOK owes around 200 million - was its continued attempt to "wash out" from the 2010 crime and from the next one, since it misled the Greeks with the "liquids" vote by Mr Papandreou, who internationally accused all Greeks as tax collectors and led Greece to the IMF, for no reason at all and with the economic situation of our country at that time infinitely better than today. We recall here that it did not only launch the first memorandum, but signed all the following, while it participated in the crime of the PSI, which promised our entire public property and handed over our national sovereignty. We also recall the incredible statement at that time by Mr Venizelos, who overturned Mr Papandreou, that our public debt would be in 2020 at 120% of GDP, as we will be tabling in the Minutes, when our public debt, as we said before, was formed at 210%, despite the robbery of Greeks, their real estate, their salaries and pensions, the hundreds of thousands of bankruptcies, mass auctions, etc. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So without any overreacting, it is challenging and hypocritical that today's attempt, on the pretext of the European project, which in fact does not seem to concern the 'domestic troika', the New Democracy, the PASOK and SYRIZA, which led Greece to the disaster without, unfortunately, having been taught any of their mistakes. Continuing, KINAL claims that in 2010 the funds were empty, and today there is comfort. If that's possible! Is Greece in a better position with its public debt at 210% of GDP compared to 127% then, with the'red' private GDP at around 150% of GDP then, with Greeks losing EUR 600 billion from their real estate, with the productive fabric of Greece destroyed by the memoranda, with banks bankrupt despite over EUR 60 billion, supported by taxpayers when they were healthy, with our GDP of EUR 160 billion from around EUR 230 billion at that time? These claims are really outrageous, as calm or well-meaning as anyone is. Where do you see the difference, really, in the deficit with 2009? Wasn't it 15% then? Isn't the same today? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Furthermore, KINAL - PASOK writes that today the European Union is mature, unlike 2010. Except that today we are Germany's debt colony, the maturity of which we saw with Macedonia, where it demanded the delivery of the name in Skopje in exchange, obviously, the extension of the EUR 95 billion that was lost, so we would go bankrupt instantly, after 2032. We also saw the sanctions that he refused to impose on Turkey to deal with the pandemic, as one country blocked each other's supplies, with the vaccines that Germany is buying today, not respecting the agreements and so much more. By continuing, really, where did the PASOK see the 1.8 trillion euros? It speaks of abundant resources and flexibility. It refers to the EUR 72 billion, which measures somewhat differently, taking into account the rest of the NSRP 2014-2020, the ‘SURE’ and the national part of the Public Investment Programme. In fact, however, it is only EUR 32 billion more than normal NSRPs and CFPs. They are EUR 22.5 billion subsidies and EUR 9.4 billion from loan facilities, according to new positions. In addition, for EUR 22.5 billion, 37% of 'green' projects and 20% of digital projects have been granted. However, even if it were the EUR 22.5 billion without conditions, they are not even enough to cover the 2020 deficit, which, as we said, was EUR 18.2 billion primary, so more than EUR 24 billion in the budget. However, the 2021 deficit, which is more than certain. So where does PASOK see the abundant resources? Like 2010 with the "liquids" that they eventually didn't exist? Does he still do the same thing? Continuing, KINAL claims that 2010 was split, and today there is a consensus. It means, rather, that the three parties of the 'troika' - which, for the same reason, do not seem to exist - agree with each other, of course, since they have jointly participated in the destruction of Greece. It is also seen by the rush of Mr Simitis of Imia, the scandal of the stock market, the incredible corruption in armaments expenditure - not only - to agree with the proposals of the Pissaridis Committee, that is to say, an even more painful memorandum. As for the productive reconstruction to which he refers and requests, we will remind him that this deindustrialised Greece and transformed the Greeks into the 'garsons of Europe', while in relation to the government's lack of planning and all the rest we would say that the country has suffered enough from its own plans. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Finally, we certainly agree with the lack of money for small and medium-sized enterprises, but something that is time-consuming at the time of the memorandums. It is good, of course, to know that all those sums which the government spends on measures against COVID are not its own. In other words, they do not come from the state funds, but they are credits, which we will be asked to return to the multiplier. Because the governments of the memoranda have promised everything, the exchanges that will be asked for this time will be national sovereignty, sea and, unfortunately, probably also territorial. In conclusion, I should like to say that we are sincerely sorry for our reports, but it makes sense to anger us with these preliminary questions, the purpose of which is not to benefit the country and its citizens but to serve selfish party interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Mr. Villardo. Mrs Aggeliki Adamopoulou has the floor from Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Mr President. The question that really arises in connection with today's question, which has very important and serious implications for the country's present and future, is why the Change Movement chose at this time to submit this timely question. The reason is obvious. He suspects that the government will soon drag our country into elections, he knows that the proportional electoral system that we have will not bring to the first party the necessary abundant self-reliance, so it is now presented as a party available to collud with New Democracy, with the first party. On the one hand, it gives the New Democracy the opportunity to present a magical and devastated image in relation to the economy, as presented by the Minister a moment ago, an image which I would say in my assessment that he does not respond to real data - I will then explain - and on the other hand show the Change Movement that he is supposedly concerned about the future of the country. If he really did care, he would know or at least have the courage to tell the truth, namely that the money, the so-called aid from the Development Package of the Recovery Fund is only EUR 9 billion, as the Secretary of Mera25 has said so many times, that is, only 10% of the 73 and 19.5 billion that are mentioned in the timeline question as the amount to be exploited. So these two memoranda, which led Greece literally to the destruction, are now preparing for a disastrous coexistence. On the one hand, a Change Movement in a lasting crisis of identity, with problems of inner-party cohesion, and on the other, a New Democracy that can no longer rely on the cheap communications tricks that have been served for so long, come to present a pretext for a timely question, which is, in essence, an exploratory one. The Change Movement tells us that the problem with the recovery fund money is management. The problem is not management. The problem is structural and systemic, because when we have a country whose public debt exceeds 200% of the gross national product, you come and tell us that the country will be saved by lending more money, that a country already in debt, which is closed in debt prison, will now be saved by lending more money. So you, who once flagged the 'leaf tree', suddenly tell us that we have fallen from the Acropolis and that we have found a piggyback, we have found a wallet with a lot of money and that this money, in fact, will come to us to give it to us! It is also characteristic - you said it yourself, Minister - that you have launched an operation to stimulate the country's cash resources through an attempt to make a loan either from the internal or external market because of the blurredness that has been created at the front of the budget. If I remember correctly, you said about 34.5 billion euros in loans from the banks.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u69	For cash.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u70	Yeah, for cash. So in relation to the money that the Europeans are supposed to be giving us, I would like to mention what the Commission said three days ago in its Eurogroup. First of all, it says that Greece's private debt will be increased very much. There will also be a deterioration in the external balance due to the collapse of tourism. In fact, it warns that the size of the injury suffered by Greece, but also the balances of the banks, the whole "hole" has not yet been revealed because of the suspensions of the debtors' payments. Also, in the case of the 'Lockdown' business, what is estimated is that after the lifting of the lockdown perhaps 50% of the business and more than half of the business will not be able to open again. He'll put a "lunket" definitively. They are already enterprises which have already put 'luketo'. With the opening up of the retail trade at the moment, which was made without any suggestion from the epidemiologists, what the government is now trying to do now is to reduce somewhat the cost of the state budget from the infamous repayable advance, by reducing the cost monthly from EUR 3 billion to EUR 1.5 billion, precisely because of the cost by which it is charged to cover the contract suspensions. Of course, to say here that the advance is a loan, it is not aid that is not repaid. I say this because the Change Movement triumphs for the returnee, when you go bankrupt even further, already bankrupt entrepreneurs. What else does the Commission say to us? That Greece suffers from excessive macroeconomic imbalances, i.e. high unemployment, high percentage of red loans, low potential growth and, of course, high public debt. As regards the low potential development, I am saying this because we have heard from your speech that you have very high expectations of the development model that our country will have. However, we think that in the end these expectations will remain only in words and that is why Greece will be the second country after Cyprus to worsen the current account of transactions throughout Europe, while the productive and budgetary gap for 2020 is expected to reach even the gap that existed in 2009, that is to say, reaching - even beyond - the 2009-2010 nightmare. What else does the Commission say to us? It also tells us that wages will be significantly reduced and that after the health crisis has been overtaken, our country will have to return and apply hard rules on budgetary adjustment. What does it mean and how does that work? This is done first by speeding up the bankruptcy procedures, which you have rushed to do with the new bankruptcy code, which will produce massively newly incapacitated and, on the other hand, will be achieved by strengthening reforms. What does it mean to strengthen reforms? It is what, in the Brussels language - we all know very well - is a new, fifth hard memorandum. In fact, the precipitation of the incomes observed in the Greeks is apparent from the fact that a huge fiscal bomb will be created from tax refunds, precisely because Greek incomes have decreased by over 50%. I'll do a parentheses here. It is not enough that everything is being closed at the moment, it is not enough that the professionals are not working, but yesterday, according to recent information, at a meeting held in plenary with the Minister of Labour with the President of the Athens Bar Association, precisely because of the amount of 400 euros that you want to subsidize the self-employed. It is clear that this amount is perpetuated and you call it a support measure, as you have called other so-called support measures. Instead of lifting a front against the continuing austerity, instead of stopping this bleeding game of the Greek taxpayer, instead of promoting a new productive and economic model, you come here the two parties and you play the Titanic orchestra. And I say this because when we talk about some EUR 18.5 billion in deficit, when we talk about EUR 11.5 billion in debt and about a huge budgetary gap created by tax refunds, then we are talking about a shipyard. What, then, must be done so that a reconstruction can actually take place? It is the first proposal for a law that we have already tabled since 11 December as Mera25, which we are proposing - I say it as simple as I can - first of all permanent tax reductions, reductions in tax rates, cuts - write off debts and not freezing. We are asking you, Minister, to delete the debt of EUR 5 billion for businesses and employees who have lost their jobs and whose salaries have fallen by more than 30%. We also propose a direct set-aside of public-private debts. To establish a digital trading system between public and private individuals. Take a close look at tax evasion. End the divestment of public property and start its real exploitation. To abolish fully the catastrophic plan of the ‘HRAKLE’ and to prohibit the transfer of the ‘red’ loans to the predators. We are proposing permanent protection of the main residence by paying a month's standard of living which will not exceed one third of net income and without prejudice to the property regime. Nationalisation of banks through the national banking holding company. Public participation in the administrative boards of banks, which were financed and still financed with the sweat of the taxpayer, and, of course, the immediate abolition of the tax advance for small and medium-sized enterprises. We have said this and tabled it with the proposal for a law on 11 December. We therefore call on everyone in a national and patriotic agreement, precisely to get the country out of the deadlock in which it has come. It's an obligation for all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Mrs Adamopoulou. Let's go to the questioners. Mr. Scandalidis has the floor from the Change Movement for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u72	I think, Minister, that you continue unwittingly to your favorite: metrology. Additionally each time the new measures added to the old ones and increasing the number. In the previous sixty list, if we were to measure everything you said, it's - I think more than a hundred, maybe a hundred, twenty. But that is not always the case, because the numbers are sometimes avenged. In the State budget's rapporteur, you measure the revenues of EUR 4,9 billion and the expenditure of EUR 10,7 billion. Total EUR 15.6 billion deficit costs. The General Accounting Office of the State raised it to EUR 22.5 billion. This means that you have failed to implement the measures. They haven't given up what you've been waiting for. But don't lose in the bills. What does this absolute "success" have to do with the real economy? I keep thinking the saying: 'What are the ballasts and dying'? When yesterday with an entrepreneur who fed up ten first - need stores, we had a conversation, the man told me that six of them were permanently closed down and four are growing. This is a train proof that the real economy your measures don't help her save the country's productive potential, save the jobs. Count these, then, to see what happens with regard to the real economy. You claim that throughout your policy you have had a success. And in the first phase of the epidemic and in the second phase of the epidemic. It's not true and you know it. The same is the first and second phases? I'll give you an example and I'll ask for a number to investigate. The example is to strengthen the ERC or not, from the first to the second phase. A number avoids the government giving us. How many people, unfortunately, are losing their lives in relation to those who are imported in total with COVID -19 in public hospitals? We're long-time champions. Why do people always sit at their houses in quarantine? Because the National Health System cannot accept them because it has not been strengthened as it should have been immediately. You're doing this number well and avoiding it, even though there's been a journalistic survey that didn't see the light of publicity. But it is a specific figure on the ability of the ERC to meet the needs. You had eight months at your disposal. You didn't do anything at all at the NSA. Absolutely nothing. Thirty-five temporary recruitments. Present intensified beds, IFs, etc. I see this result. And the concrete result is that you do not want to strengthen the ESS. You have charged us with the general and specific costing of the measures. When Mr Katrinis told you that you did a general cost, you replied 'partial cost'. These aren't serious things. It is not a serious political dialogue. In the light of the available resources and the decision of the European Union not to apply the financial rules, you were able to make more resources available to tackle pandemic and, more generally, to relaunch the economy. For example, liquidity, banks' assets and how much materially they come to help companies. Example even worse is where this money is going, with what percentages and what business. It's not enough to list dry numbers. The figures have a breakdown underneath. They have an impact, they have a consequence. When it is dismantled, is the vertebral column of the productive potential of the country that is small and medium-sized enterprises literally shattered? Waiting for foreign investments just? You say that we do not take into account the conditions laid down for allocations from the European Union. It is a good programme proposed by the European Union. The six axes and the four pillars contain them all. You have the ability to transfer resources and choose resources in each sector with your comfort. To set up a programme from the start, without fearing to connect the ongoing NSRF, the continuing CAP, the new CFP, the new NSRF and at the same time the Economic Recovery Fund. This is an unprecedented opportunity for the country to build another development plan from what it had, to make another course of sustainable development and social justice. You also claimed in this that you maintain jobs, etc. I did not see any productive investment in substance. I didn't see any foreign investment coming. You were looking with chalk for a foreign investment when you said that since the first year we will have an increase in the percentage of funds invested from abroad in Greece. I did not see you making any decision to facilitate investment. I did not see you making any decision that guides the banks to put their liquidity into productive purposes. I did not see you making any decision to change the structures of the state for this. Listen, Minister, let me finish. You're right. We were told in the medium term that it was replaced by the corresponding European Union programme for stability, stabilisation and recovery. I would like to say to you: you are well aware that without a medium-term draft budgetary policy it is not possible to link the strategic objectives with the relaunch of the economy and the conditions that exist today. And if the European Union does not require it, you should have it, so as to link the next steps to your overall plan, which, in my opinion, does not exist, because it is theoretical, because it says self-evident, because it has good strategic directions, but does not guarantee that it is implemented at all. And I am ending with returning to normality, because you keep saying it and I think it is the biggest gladiator of all conservative politicians and governments in the world and here. We don't want to go back to normality. Regularity was a dead end, led to the crisis. We want another type of development, not this horizontal and vague development. We want another type of production model. We want other state structures and financial institutions to implement this model. The country needs to change again, change big, institutional, social, economic. It does not have to return to the normality of the old crisis and a system that has led things to a dead end. If that is what the other parties are worried about, because they think that we have destroyed the country, while we have an entirely opposite view of them, it is their case. We have not destroyed the country, we have led it to progress, and because we know what change it takes to go to new progress, we will continue to propose you with a view to working together on this story, not at government level, which I have now heard from a representative of a party, but at the level of contribution to a new spring for our country.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u73	Mr President, I would like to speak for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u74	Mr Katrin, you have the floor for a minute, not two. Please. You don't want to respect me, your right. Respect the Rules of Procedure, as we all have to do here.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Mr President. Wait a minute and interrupt me. I want to tell the Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u76	And the Minister will close the debate. He doesn't have an answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u77	No, it can't.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u78	No, no. The Minister will close.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u79	How's it going to happen?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u80	Will the Minister close, as the Rules of Procedure state, what to do, Mr Pappa?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u81	Not a minute, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u82	No, then the minister will have to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u83	How will he answer me?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u84	No, we won't have a dialogue. The Minister will answer and close. Since you have no right, what can we do now, to change the Rules of Procedure? Here you go, Mr. Catarini, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u85	Minister, you know that very well: where the numbers prosper, people are unhappy. You said before that we have fewer padlocks in 2020 than in 2019. You know very well that to remove someone from GEMI with the administration in sub-optimal and the courts five months in suspension is a much more complex procedure than you want. So don't say that argument. Why? Because when ELSTAT comes and says that in the third quarter of 2020, which was the market open and the tourism in operation we had a turnover of 13 billion, so that comes now that the market opens. The danger of padlocks is visible. And because you have a direct relationship, because you are a strong politician, you are years in politics, and I think you will be years, so you will be able to see your voters in Stylis, Tithorea, Lamia, where you are going, after three, four, five, six years, I don't know if you will be able to tell them that you have given them a second chance. But you must explain to them why at this very difficult time, while you know that what has to be done is not done to support small and medium-sized businessmen and small business, you are actually leaving them as the gladiators in the arena decide to trial Caesar some other outside-political circles - and I say features of banking - which companies will survive and what will die. So that obliges you to take a political position. We with this anxiety and thinking we ask you to think and act politically for the benefit of society, the country and the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, too. The Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouras, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u87	Thank you very much, Mr President. Let me start by saying that at the last ECOFIN and Eurogroup meetings, Monday and Tuesday, some tables are distributed, known tables. They are the maps of the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control. It's about the sanitary field, not the economic field. They demonstrate and confirm the best comparison of the second phase of the coronary crisis in the health field. I'll submit the relevant tables. From the colors alone, this is obvious. Obviously no one can be satisfied when there is a picture of an outbreak of a health crisis, but the data are data. Secondly, I would like to say that I am very pleased I have heard all the opposition parties say that debts are being launched, deficits are being launched and at the same time all parties are calling for additional benefits. In other words, on the one hand, they say that there is an increase in deficit and debt and, at the same time, they propose policies to increase even more. Obviously this is not a shipwreck of government policy, it is a shipwreck of the positions of counterpopulation! Third point. A good debate that we need to have, I think, in this Chamber is a comparison of the first economic crisis in the last decade and what we are going through today. Does he have the same features? In the previous economic crisis, all the parties we have governed have implemented restrictive budgetary policies. We increased taxes - some parties more, some less - we reduced wages and pensions, all the parties we were ruling. It was restrictive budgetary policies. Now, at this stage of the health crisis, restrictive budgetary policies are not being implemented. Extensive budgetary policies are implemented. It supports society, there is fiscal flexibility, there will be fiscal flexibility and in 2021. Second difference. Over the previous years, in two specific periods, in 2010 and 2015, there was a huge outflow of deposits. Now, last year we have increased deposits by 20 billion euros.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u88	Why did they grow?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u89	Why did the testimonies increase? Obviously, because a part of society cannot be spent, since the economy is closed to many. Secondly, because a part of society feels insecurity and wants to put aside a sum of money, not knowing the extent and intensity of the problem. If one looks at the analysis of deposits, it is clear that this also comes from lower layers. Let us not forget that, in contrast to the previous crisis, an important part of society has not suffered a reduction in its available income, such as pensioners, civil servants. In the previous economic crisis, this had been done by different parties. So that's the reality. We are also counting on it to exercise and implement policies so that we do not help horizontally, to help targeted those affected by the health crisis. There are usually very reasonable questions which need answers and certainly debates. Have we implemented policies to help investment? The question is very reasonable and very important. We think we've done it. I've submitted it to the House, I'll testify to it today. We have reduced thirty-nine rates of taxation permanently or non-permanently in the last one and a half years. The reduction in tax rates, the reduction in insurance contributions, the incentives you give for investments is an element in attracting investment. Is that enough? Oh, no. We need to strengthen e-government, i.e. reduce bureaucracy. It's been proven. It's recognized by everyone. Do you want with the greatest pressure of the economic crisis? However, the truth is that today the public works more digitally than it operated a year and a half ago. Have we helped business in liquidity? This is the third element that companies look at. I think that beyond and above the figures - I've given the evidence - there is a strengthening of liquidity. Fourthly, are structural changes being implemented? Are the privatizations progressing? Is the use of public property going on? All this is happening. We want to do much more, but what I say in the words is practically proven by the 'MICROSOT', 'PFIZER', 'VOLKSWAGEN', 'CISCO', 'DELOITTE', to mention only five specific investments. I heard you say - and you know I always support what I say in the past - that in February 2020 I said that there would be growth in Greece. Obviously. Everyone backed it up. Even you said so. We were just disagreeing on the level of growth. The European Commission said it, the institutions said it, everyone said it. Indeed, we have all supported growth. But we disagreed in terms of growth. Indeed, we said something in May. What did we say? We said that we were going to recover in 2021 in such a way as to be V-shape, that is, the entire loss of 2020 will be covered in 2021. That can't be.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u90	Are you insisting?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u91	It's not if I insist. It's the budget. But be careful, this is not only the case in Greece. Paulo Jediloney interviewed a European Commissioner at the "VIMA" recently on 3 January. ‘However, it should be said that the idea of a direct recovery in the form of V in Europe was not accurate’. So Greece is not an exception. All over Europe there were estimates of how the health crisis will move. We followed the same model and it turns out that the intensity of the second wave was much larger. So not all of the 2020 losses are covered in 2021 - we say this in the budget - and this is demonstrated at European level. You accuse us that we often change our assessments. Again yesterday, the European Commission was presented with a table showing that the European Commission reviewed its estimates considerably five times in 2020. In this unprecedented state of insecurity and uncertainty it is obvious that estimates often change worldwide. You say: "Only we claim that the recession will be 10.5% in Greece in 2020 and growth will be 4.8% in 2021." Today's table that says what everyone else thinks - let the government - for 2021: SELE 5.5%. BSE 5%. National 4,6%. Experimental 4.5%. Eurobank 5%. INE - GFCF 6%. Alpha 4.2%. Greek Financial Council 4.5%. Bank of Greece 4.2%. European Commission 5%. IMF 5.7%. And the consensus of all 4.3%. Indeed, there is the OECD, which was the favourite account of Officer Response in the budget debate, which speaks of 0.9%. Estimates are those. However, the estimates show that the Greek Government has done something, which the whole world believes will apply to the Greek economy. For 2020 Greece's assessment, as I said in the budget, is for 10.5%. At the moment, the foreign estimate for Greece is for 9.5%. Let me remind you - and we will be assessed at the end - that Mr Tsipras argued, before the second wave, that the recession would be at least 12%. I have been here since 29 July. If it comes out under 12% and, even before the second wave, it goes on to say that the policies have caught. We'll see it along the way. I have heard Mr Pappa say that we are champions - you said the word 'protagonists' - in the recession. I know that 8.5% in the nine-month period is lower than 9.5% in Italy, since 9.5% in France and 11.5% in Spain. To speak with real data, temporarily, of ELSTAT. I want to be very honest, it's temporary. But that's what we can talk about. The facts of the nine-month period are therefore that Greece is not a champion in the recession. Indeed, in the first half of the year we have had much better performance than Europe and in the first quarter we have developed. You say: 'The third quarter, however, we had the most profound recession.' It is true that we have had the deepest recession. It would be nice, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u92	Ticket down.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u93	No, I heard 'and the greatest recession' from your colleague. But it would be a good thing - to go now to your thoughts - to know the sources as well. Why did Greece have the deepest recession in the third quarter? Because the recession in tourism, in the export of services, was 80%, when the average European level was 18%.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u94	We knew it all along.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u95	Yes, but on the one hand you blamed the government for what it does in the health field for tourism and on the other hand, you said "we were going to lose a lot of tourism". It's contradictory. But what does he have an interest in being an element? In the third quarter Greece had the second highest private and public consumption in Europe. Why is that? Because we have implemented policies that have strengthened the incomes of Greek citizens in order to spend. We lost from tourism, which did not come from abroad, in the third quarter, but we won from the Greek citizens, who spent on what we gave and caught a place in the Greek economy. These statistics I've submitted to the Minutes. Mr. Poppa, I didn't miss the EUR 5.5 billion for the Recovery Fund in 2021, that's what the budget says. EUR 5.5 billion is a significant amount of resource input in 2021. Whatever the budget says, I didn't miss anything. You said 'job' operations. Let's make an explanation. We support and support the real economy. We support and support healthy businesses, especially small and medium-sized enterprises. We do not support and we will not support the grey economy. That must be clear to everyone. So healthy entrepreneurship will continue to support it. For example, I do not think it is normal for some businesses not to have a reference turnover of EUR 150 per month in 2019. It's a reflection element. We'll see about that along the way. So we support healthy entrepreneurship. I have heard about the zeros and the measures that are coming. I will insist that we do not follow the path of irresponsible bidding of Officerial Opposition and other opposition parties, I will insist on the term. I have not even heard in the seconds the total amount of the proposed measures. You say to me "we propose a repayable advance of 5.5 billion" and a perfection. The other measures? You said a series of measures. How much is it, I want the total amount, a number, the total cost. We come and say that the total cost now in the budget is 7.5 billion. Where there are zeros is why we cannot assess the dynamics of the health crisis. First of all, I would like to say that, for example, you see a zero in the compensation of shipping lines. We do not know in November 2020 what the coastlines will be like in June 2021. However, from the reserve of 3 billion, resources will be allocated to the zero-dollar lines. But when? When we have a picture of the extent to which we need to strengthen specific sectors of the economy. So we have a certain amount of money, and we distribute that in the most responsible way.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u96	Minister, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u97	You said about the returnee, how many applied. I would like us to wait a few days to see the data, because the first reading of the data shows that many thousands of companies that applied for have increased turnover in the last four months of 2020 compared to 2019. It's a lot of hundreds of thousands of businesses. However, we will wait for the updated VAT figures to see what the reality is. In any case, our aim is to disburse resources from the middle of next week. Imagine that they have submitted many thousands of companies that have had a turnover increase in the last four months of 2020 compared to 2019. That is something we should evaluate and look at. You say if the measures we say about 2021 will also apply in 2022. We don't decide in vacant. You and the President have said various things as if we were vacant. We are a member of the European Union, we are a member of the Eurogroup. The decisions are collective. The JRC's right. You are constantly saying: 'Do you believe that the measures will be permanent?' But how do I commit, when the country is under enhanced supervision...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u98	Don't lie! We didn't talk about that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u99	Mr. Catarini, he didn't interrupt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u100	...and do all the Member States of the Eurozone have to pursue specific policies in their parentheses - the timing - of the coronary? So I'm very honest. We have implemented many permanent tax reductions - HISPIA, business taxes, dividends, lower income levels in natural persons - and permanent reductions in insurance contributions. We also have measures that are not of a lasting nature. Why don't they be of a permanent character? They cannot have because of European decisions. I am, however, committed, and we are committed, when the reference to the health crisis is closed, to returning to the proper budgetary policy of permanent tax and insurance reductions, as we have done in the past, on the basis of the country's budgetary possibilities and the government's budgetary priorities. And I'm closing. I have not talked at all about the institutional framework for the regulation of debts and the provision of a second chance. I know, Mr President, that you always have a weakness when I am specific. So you'll give me two minutes. The reality is different from the one you presented. The new single institutional framework aims to avoid bankruptcy, the opposite of what you systematically risk. That is why it contains two axes: the prevention of bankruptcy and the treatment of bankruptcy. I mean prevention by creating early warning mechanisms and dealing with the out-of-court settlement mechanism. And, indeed, there are two hundred forty doses, with which the citizen saves all his property. If, however, a debtor fails to repay his debts, even by favouring regulation in twenty years, then in practice he has gone bankrupt and in this case the law speaks of a debt relief, if it is not a fraud, so that he has a second chance. And, of course, there are specific social protection measures for vulnerable households. In the "FYROM" - since you are all interested in the data - for the first time the government is helping up-to-date borrowers. I would like to tell you that with the current figures - basically what I have to date, but it is for the end of the year - a hundred sixty thousand fourseven applications have already been submitted to the end of October, seventy-seven thousand fourscore applications have already been approved by the end of December, seventy-four thousand fourscore twenty applications, five and sixty-three loans and thirty-three-three-eight-eight-eight-holders. The total amount is EUR 23,2 million. It's not what we had in the budget, because the citizens are on parole. Since citizens are on parole, how are they going to make arrangements? That is why it is important that we help the citizens and when the suspension is lifted. And what you said, Mr. Colleague, that we're going to do "GIRA 2"...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u101	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u102	Let me finish. You talk all the time! You said we would do GEOGRAPHY 2 at the business and at the pace we are going, we could help a business in September. But then the operation needs help. Because when he's on parole, he doesn't need any help. He wants it when that's lifted. And you know it's a European rule in nine months. It is not the government, but the EPA that took it out and gave a directive to all countries must be the state closest to the operation to support it in the next steps. We will therefore continue to work with households on the country's fund. We will continue to work fiercely, modestly, seriously and responsibly so that the economy returns to full operation as soon as possible and society remains upright. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u103	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is adjourned on number 5/18-11-20 of a topical question tabled by Members of the Change Movement to the Ministers for Finance, Development and Investment, Health and Rural Development and Food. Before we proceed to the debate on the topical and urgent questions scheduled for today, I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent debate on Monday 25 January 2021: A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Cycle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by number 295/15-1-2021 of the SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance Mr.Nikolaos Symbleniou to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Archits in the vaccination system in the Cyclades and the need for an immediate drafting of an operational plan for the islands". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 292/13-1-2021 by the Vice-President of Parliament and Member of Parliament Arcadias of the Change Movement Mr. Odyssey Constantinople to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "To immediately withdraw the unacceptable sudden cut in the funds of the Green Fund by 85% intended to deprive the Megalopolis region". 3. The question by number 317/18-1-2021 was raised by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Manolis Synthraki to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The problems regarding the adequacy and safety of PANGN's Cardiopathy Intensive Monitoring Unit. 4. The 304/18-1-2021 topical question by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas Arseni, Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Direct action to prevent the disappearance of planks in the country. Hazard mark from Peloponnese, Continent and Centrale". B. PERSONS OF second-circuit Questions (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. Under No 297/15-1-2021, a topical question by MP B3' South Athens, SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr.Ioannis Balafa, Minister for Health, on the subject: 'Protecting people with diabetes mellitus'. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 315/18-1-2021 topical question by the Member of the State of Change Movement Mr. Georgios Kamine to the Minister of Civil Protection, on the subject: "Borea Plan and snow management". 3. The question by number 321/18-1-2021 of the F' Vice-President of Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Georgios Lambroulis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The restoration of the operation of the Larissa General Hospital (GNS)". 4. The 305/18-1-2021 topical question by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas Arsenis, Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'Point protection Koumoundourou'. 5. Under No. 299/15-1-2021, a topical question by Piraeus II, SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr.Ioannis Ragosi, Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "New environmental injustice in Schisto Perama, Keratini - Drapetsonas. In the midst of the pandemic, with an anti-constitutional legislative initiative of the Minister for the Environment and Energy, an Attica waste transhipment station was authorised, while a decision by the Regional Authority of Attica is being taken to create a waste treatment plant, although the Regional Waste Management Plan (PESDA) is pending at Attica, as well as the new law on recycling is pending.’ 6. Giannakopoulou's No. 298/15-1-2021 topical question from MP B2' Western Athens of the Change Movement Mr. Konstantina (Nantia) Giannakopoulou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "It is unjustifiable to move the General Secretariat of Gender Equality to the Ministry of Labour and the deterioration of its role". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question asked by MP B3' South Athens of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Annulment of the redundancies of workers from the Agricultural Foetal Cooperative of Ioannina S.A." 8. Under No 306/18-1-2021, a topical question by MP B2' Western Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas Arseni, Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Acheloos Committee: The Prime Minister announces the violation of the decisions of the Council of State (S.A.).(')'. 9. The 311/18-1-2021 topical question by SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance Mr. Georgios Psychoyou to the Minister of Digital Governance, on the subject: "The need to strengthen the ELTAs in Corinthia" No closure of a shop, ensuring their uninterrupted operation and fulfilling their social role." 10. The 302-18-1-2021 topical question by MP Boeotia of the Change Movement Mr. Georgios Mulkiotis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on "Measures for effective protection of workers in the Regional Unit of Boeotia". 11. Mr Kritonas Arsenis, Member of the Commission. — (EL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Mr Arseni for his excellent report. 12. The 309/18-1-2021 topical question by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas Arsenis, Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Thessaloniki: ID as Greek. From a metropolitan park to metropolitan land speculation’. 13. Observations of the Court of Justice The 310/18-1-2021 topical question by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr Kritonas Arsenis, Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'Motocross Reports on Motor Sport in Dreams and Protected Areas'. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No. 1580/10-11-2020 of the First Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Greek Parliament, Nikita Kaklamanis, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "State payment of newspaper staff from the National Health Business Centre (EPC).(')'. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 1432/340/4-11-2020 question and application for the filing of documents by SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance Mr Socrates Famelou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "It remains pending the identification of the source of dysosmia in the town complex of Volos". 3. The 2822/416-18-12-20 question and application for the submission of documents by the MP of Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Extended applications for retirement of Crete". 4. The 2800/17-12/2020 question by SYRIZA MEP - Progressive Alliance Mr Socrates Famelou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'Should the Government give an extension for the completion of the applications of the small and medium-sized producers of Renewable Energy (SME) and the Energy Communities?' 5. The 2576/11-12-20 question by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr Kegeroglu Vassiliou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on "Direct actions to integrate the loaders into the beneficiaries of the special-purpose compensation". 6. The 2824/417-18-12-20 question and application for the submission of SYRIZA MEP: Progressive Alliance Mr Socrates Famelou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'Why do not the legislative and compulsory incentives for recycling and the cyclical economy and the incentives for landfill apply?'
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u104	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS First of all, I have the honour to inform you that the Secretary-General of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs informs the House of the following in writing: "We hereby inform you about the topical and urgent questions debate, as part of parliamentary scrutiny, that on Friday 22 January 2021 the current questions to be debated are as follows: Question No 318/18-1-2021 will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Theodoros Doulakakis. Question No 2742/16-12-20 will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, George Zavvos. The number 2211/385/30-11-20 question and application for documents, which will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, Evangelos Syrigos. Question No 300/16-1-2021 will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sport, Eleftherios Aygeakis.’ So we are starting today's debate with the last question I have just mentioned, which is very timely indeed. This is the first question under number 300/16-1-2021 of the First Senate of the New Republic of Athens, Mr. Fotinis Pipilis to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Bekaterou case: measures from the Ministry to eliminate such phenomena". Mrs. Pipili, you have the floor for two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u105	Good evening, Mr. President, Mr. Undersecretary. The shocking Bekaterou case has spread not only on Greek territory but has taken the road - unfortunately for the reputation of our country and sports symbolism - for the global sports community. This shocking revelation has two aspects and I have two relevant questions. I will stand at the forefront of the enormous importance of the courage that Sofia Bekaterou has shown to break this circle of silence, a courage to which Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis has also referred, mainly in his capacity as a father himself and as a ordinary citizen. Mrs Bekaterou awakened a huge part of society, because it is not only the fact that the justice has now been committed, so it is not our job to analyse it, the attempted rape or rape, but what is of great importance and made me personally angry is the fact that the people of this Pan-Hellenic Sailors Federation, who have been officially informed not only of their affection and protection to their athletes, have been smuggled into some way. But what angered me, Mr. Undersecretary, is this: Greek society trusts them, who signed this infamous announcement, its treasure, its children, its minors, children and adolescents, to learn what we learned from ancient ancestors: the value of physical and mental sport. I ask, then, what measures are you going to take to ensure that this does not happen? I would also ask, if I may, that, as a citizen, I say the removal of the entire Board of Directors, because it has offended Greek society and its values. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Mrs. Pipili. The Secretary of State for Culture and Sport will answer Mr. Eleftherios Aeggeakis. Mr. Ignace, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u107	I will ask for the Bureau's tolerance, because this is a very interesting matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u108	But don't get away with it, Mr. Ausgeakis, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u109	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your question. You are addressing such a sensitive and serious issue, which last week has dealt - and I would rightly say - with the Greek society as a whole. I am pleased to have the opportunity to discuss this issue here in the House, to inform the Greek people about what the government has done, not only on this issue but on the whole on the issue of sport abuse since the day we took the country's sunshine and, of course, also on the next steps that we are going to take. Since the first time we took over the country's governance, we have set as our priority the support of the sporting family and the consolidation, transparency and accountability in the field of sport. Ladies and gentlemen, thankfully for our children, for healthy sport, we closed our ears on the sirens and didn't back off. On the contrary, we are going to go on with complete consistency in our commitments and, within the days, the follow-up to sport reform, which is going to be faced with problems which seem to be enormous, but which, through the cooperation of all healthy forces, will see the light and, of course, go beyond Parliament's threshold. The bill that will go up to the consultation in the next few days includes, among other things, arrangements for the Committee on Professional Sports - legal form, competence, function - provisions for harmonisation with FIFA - UEFA's holistic study - UEFA, OSH elections, fans' clubs, organised Fans' movement, the restructuring of professional soccer categories, provisions on the rights and obligations of athletes, arrangements for the EEC, for the 'PILOPAS' platform, amendments on the specific athletic recognition of amateur unions and much more. But what have we done in the eighteen months in government, Mrs. Pipilis, where are you asking me? We did not hesitate to become unpleasant in the few but strong in the permanent administrations of the federations, to go against acquired decades, always under the guidance and support of our Prime Minister. When we started the sport reform with Law 4639/2019, by which we set limits on their ages and births, we were very critical and even many pressures from Members of our party who did not know about it. The Prime Minister, however, gave us a clear mandate and support to dare sports reform. If we left the situation, ladies and gentlemen, as it were, we would have no limits on the age of the governors. I repeat, we would have no limits on the terms of office of the governors. The same administrations, the life expectancy, would run at least until 2028. That's what we changed. We dared and changed it. And I would remind you here that in this Chamber only the New Democracy Parliamentary Group finally voted in favour of these provisions. All the other parties have strongly criticised and, of course, did not support the end. In these eighteen months we have managed an important reform, which broke down in place, gave voice to athletes and supports the healthy part of the sporting family. By Laws 4639/2019 and 4646/2019 with targeted provisions, by Law 4714 again with targeted provisions, by Law 4726 and by Law 4735, followed by the bill I mentioned just before, we proceeded with all the above. To this day, what have we achieved? More specifically, we have set limits on the terms and ages of the federations' administrative councils. The same person, I remind you, can be elected three times President of the sports federation, three terms of births. Furthermore, since it has been two consecutive times in any other federal executive position, it can be re-elected if it has taken place at least two years since its last term. We set the seventeenth year as the upper age limit for election in any CPC position. Sports federation, as is the case with the ILO. We strengthened amateur sports clubs, athletes and coaches. We do the self-evident thing, operating for the first time a record of amateur sports clubs in our country. The unions, not only are recognised by the state, not only will they have the right to direct financial support from the state, but all active and legitimate will now have the right to vote in the elections of the new federations. They have a strengthened role in the course of the sport. We give strength to the voice of amateur sport, which has been our first priority. At the same time, however, we also have a say and a role for the athletes who called it twenty - thirty years with more active and more substantial involvement in the administrations of their own federations. For the first time, we also introduced the presence of athletes in federations with voting rights. We have anticipated a reduction in the tax rate to 22% from 45% for sports contracts. We have reduced the tax rate by 20% on the amounts of donations to amateur unions alone. We arranged for sports games to be subject to a reduced VAT rate of 13%, their chronic request. We anticipated that the taxation of coach incomes should be treated as equal to that of paid athletes at 22%. We have allowed money to be donated to sports amateur clubs as well as to cover the costs of traveling athletes and sports teams by decision of municipal and regional councils. We have taken care, I remind you, of lightning up the integration of sports clubs into the umbrella of support measures during both the first and second lockdowns. We are strengthening transparency, democracy and participation. We have explicitly prohibited the participation by a proxy in the antiquities of sports organisations. The procedures for archiving shall be ensured. The three-member editorial committee on antiquities will always be headed by a lawyer as a judicial representative. Transparency everywhere! The elections of the new administrative boards shall be held by a single ballot composed of two separate sections. In the first section, candidate presidents and candidate advisors. The electoral list includes all active and legitimate amateur sports clubs that have sporting recognition and which have been written in the Registry of Sports Clubs and which is accessible to everyone, but to everyone, without any discrimination. We have eliminated the phenomena of the seal unions. We have been very critical, hard to criticise, but today the healthy part of sport is aware of what we have been trying to do for eighteen months. We have shielded equal access to sport for disabled people, ladies and gentlemen. We have in practice strengthened the sport of people with disabilities. We speak of the Paralympians with three seats in the administration of the Greek Paralympic Committee. We survived athletes accompanyings. They deserve them after so many years and so much effort that they're next to ASEAN athletes. We upgrade the role of coach with the coach register. We have already anticipated compliance with the General Secretariat of Sports and Sports with Law 4726/2020. We are already working on the new institutional framework for coaches and trainers. Soon, soon, this will be put into consultation as well as for the place where the register is organised. We want, ladies and gentlemen, to create a safe framework, a strong, healthy sporting structure and, of course, to address this problem has a variety of provisions. The most important aspect may be the relationship between coach and athlete, since the coach is the person who trusts a child and is almost loyal to his instructions. Unfortunately, in the country, however, there is no clear picture of the coaches, which is wrong for the coaches themselves and, of course, for our children and is particularly concerned about their families. As I had announced from this the Stepma last September, we are very directly creating the Coach Register, so that there are clear criteria for who, who undertakes to train our child, who is the person in which we trust our children, who is the person our children trust. It's unheard today of not having a coach register in our country. We are actively dealing with doping and manipulated struggles, while we introduced the EEC, which was upgraded to an organization. We have ratified the McColin Convention, in order to prevent'stuffed', manipulated toys, creating the National Platform. We are preparing a campaign, Mrs Pipilis, to deal with sexual violence and any other form of violence in sport, which I shall refer to in the second part of my position and for all the things that you have rightly raised and which, for many of them, we have already taken initiatives or which we intend to take with the contribution of all the political forces. Because - I will repeat it once again - sport unites. There are no micro-political pursuits in this effort. We can all face this scourge together, this problem, which is social and not just sporting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u110	And thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. Mrs. Pipili, you have three minutes at your disposal for your denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u111	Mr President, what you have described I am aware of is that I am part of the Committee on Culture. I'll do a very tough, heavy, and perhaps misunderstanding placement. It is a pity to see from certain specific behaviours that some people operate, dealing with our children and the ideals of sport, with reasonable cafés and mafias. You're swinging your head, Minister. You know a lot more.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u112	My back knows!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u113	I do not deal with sport or have knowledge of it in particular, but I take advantage of the global importance, particularly of Greek sport. You see, then, that recently - probably just yesterday - the athletes, the Olympians sent a letter informing the World Sailing Federation. It seemed to me that they are calling for the Federation's reaction and for the pressure - here is the key - to establish a temporary board of directors which will lead to elections to the Greek Federation on 14 March. Tell me now, after everything that has happened, if it is not completely crazy and challenging, instead of hiding in the locker of sport, these people dared to go against Greek society and not only did they not give up, not only did they apologize - because I do not think they knew and covered it, I do not go that far - not only did they show remorse, because they have responsibility as members of the board of directors, on the contrary - and they go against you both in society and in the government and in the political system - and they are proclaiming elections - listen, listen! - March 15th. I am not a legal person, but - and I said at the outset - the second part of my question is to find out any way you can - so that you do not run on the Council of State - so that the members of the board of directors are canceled at the expense of their provocative attitude! Find the way to remove them and here with the possibilities offered by the general laws of the state a temporary board of directors. Mr. Aygeakis, these people who have in their drawers, their computers, their hard drives the millions that they may already have destroyed, because legal culture cannot clearly force them on the first day to retire, enter auditors, prosecutors, to know the economic part as well. Because we are not only talking about the power that led many athletes to fear because they knew they would be beheaded and destroyed. Here, Mr Aygeakis, we are talking about the sponsorship of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation which people immediately withdrew. We are talking about taxation, which we, through our taxation, contribute to these subsidies that you have rightly cut. So they are accountable not only in the sports sector but they are accountable throughout the state because they manage Greek public money. So I come back, and I'll be done. As challenging and hard as it sounds, you can find a way, Minister, to relieve us - and especially the parents who trust them - of the presence of those people who, in their actions, are stubborn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Mrs. Pipili. Mr. Ausgeakis, you have three minutes at your disposal. Please keep them. It was nine minutes earlier, now you have no reason. They were very interesting, so I didn't interrupt you. Don't think I'm a bad option!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u115	What you will hear, Mr President, is even more interesting.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u116	But don't go back to nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u117	Fellow, on your question about the state's attitude to the Greek Sailing Federation, I will repeat from this, the Stepma, that it is saddening a federation of sports that its sport has brought discrimination in our country and has shown top figures and has made us all proud to react in the way you described. Of course, we were not impressed by the reaction of the Sailing Federation. Its administration belongs to the minority of the sporting community, who considered themselves to be unmovable, to be invincible and that no one will touch them. For bad luck both of these people and those who thought they would act unnecessarily, they were in front of a government with political will, with a determination and with the aim of putting an end to arbitraryness and of bringing fresh renovation oxygen to the administrations of all the federations and all in the sports structure of our country. And, as proved by the announcement of tens of the country's Satisfying Associations, calling for their resignation, for the resignation of all the members of the federation administration, many, the healthy part of the sports family, is in favour of sport reform, are in favour of the abolition of the equal members of the Boards. I would like to ask you, Mr President, if you will allow me to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, to speak on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party, and on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Party, to vote in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by the Group of the European People's Party, in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by the Group of the European People's Party. It is not surprising when the President of the International Commission for Thomas Bach congratulated the President of the Hellenic Olympic Committee, Mr Kapralos, on the way in which the Greek state and the Greek Olympic Committee handled the sensitive issue of Sofia Bekateros, following the Olympic values and ideals. The complaints of athletes and the sad manipulations of the case by the leadership of the Greek Sailing Federation have taken, as you said, dimensions that flee from the border of our country. In a telephone call I had with the CEO of the World Sailing Federation, Mr Graham, he informed me that he received a detailed letter from the Olympic champions - you mentioned it yourself - requesting their immediate intervention. Needless to say, I have collected his strong concern and disappointment about the complainants. If something characterizes us as a government, however, it is the healthy relationship of confidence that we are building with all international institutions. It goes without saying that we have already agreed that there should be close cooperation with both the World Federation and the sports community of our country in order to overcome the crisis in Greek sailing. In this context, within the next few days, the Board will meet. the World Federation to examine the possible sanctions and actions it will take. I also inform you that a few days ago my decision suspended any kind of funding to the Hellenic Sailing Federation until the first stage of investigations by the competent bodies of justice and the services of the General Secretariat of Sports, concerning complaints by Olympics and champions about the forms of violence - all sorts - and misuse of power. In addition, direct control in the Federation of Sailing by the National Transparency Authority for the lawfulness of the systems and procedures of governance and economic operation, with the aim of identifying any phenomena of corruption, opaque procedures, maladministration, ineffectiveness and violations of integrity, given the namely complaints they have made to justice, but also to our services leading athletes. And we didn't start that now. Already in November 2019, we have been implementing an integrated strategy to strengthen accountability and transparency in the field of sport. One part is the institutional reforms that I mentioned a little earlier, and the other is the carrying out of controls, which the entire sports family wants. Also, in cooperation with the National Transparency Authority, the audit at the National Sports Centre of Thessaloniki and a number of other sports centers and in their programme had already been included, and the control of the Greek Sailing Federation, which started immediately - may have been launched today - according to their design as responsible, as a transparency authority, in order to have an objective and documented assessment of the functions and procedures of this federation. At the same time, by letter to the President of the Anti-Counterfeiting Authority, Mr Zaire, I asked for checks to be carried out on the obligation to submit statements of assets from the members of the Board of Directors of the IHC. They have been legally obliged, since they manage even EUR 1 in public money to make a statement ‘from where they are concerned’. Have they? We'll see it very soon. Prevention of harassment and violence in sport? The issue of harassment, Mrs Pipili, and abuse, particularly of children and sport, is a very serious and very delicate issue. Unfortunately, our country had not made significant progress in recording and understanding and, of course, dealing with this problem. At times we have heard of fragmentary cases following a complaint from the athletes themselves and, usually, several years later and after the adultery of the victims. Besides, this is also the case with the incidents that have seen the light of publicity in the last few days. From the very beginning of our administration we have been paying particular attention to the issue of protecting children and adults in sport, a matter that needs careful and effective attention and, of course, an issue that we are dealing with with with with with incomprehensible consistency. Direct prevention measures: In the last few days we have reacted to lightning, launching additional prevention measures. In a perfect atmosphere of cooperation, we have joined forces with our excellent colleague, Deputy Minister for Labour, responsible for demographic policy, Mrs Syregella, as well as the Association of Greek Olympians, in order to activate the first package of social actions and initiatives, with the fronts of the athletes themselves to deal with phenomena of violence - all forms of violence - and abuse of power in the field of sport. In this context, we have decided: we are adopting the proposal of the Olympics to set up a Committee on the Management of Violence and Racism. We are directly creating a working group under our supervision and, of course, with the participation of our athletes, with the participation - and the peak of the spear - of all those leading athletics who wrote the recent athletic history. Our aim is to draw up information and data on such phenomena and to draw up a concrete action plan, but immediately and not after years, so that this story is not forgotten and that we do not have the creation of many new phenomena. We have decided to promote a campaign and awareness of the values and benefits of sport with the active involvement of the "Live Sports" program and the cooperation of the entire sports family. The primary concern of this initiative is to highlight the good things about sport and the values that surely arm characterise and make our society better. In other words, we will encourage families and children to deal with the healthy part of sport, to taste and to make the values of sport part of their character. But the campaign also has another aspect: Break the silence, take this heavy load off you, speak loudly, since you have suffered any form of abuse. And when we talk about abuse, of course, we do not only mean sexual, but also the verbal, physical, psychological. Our third major decision - and I conclude, Mr President - concerns the development of a series of interesting practices on the part of the Council of Europe and the European Commission, which in due course we will be able to harmonise fully in the Greek reality and to announce in the next few months. Having the honour of directing the work of the Council of Europe - as part of the Greek Presidency - I can assure you that a great deal has already been done, which was reflected in the 16th Council of Europe Sports Ministers meeting, and I thank you very much for the knowledge and experience we all share in the effort to exchange good practice. And as far as your question is concerned, Mrs Pipili, we very methodically and respecting our institutions and rights, as well as the requirement of society and the healthy part of the sporting family, do and do what we need to do, so that there can be light, transparency, order and democracy in all federations and, in particular, in those that have been recorded and reported in the most official way, in the judicial authorities, i.e. instances of maladministration, maladministration or incidents, such as those that have happened with Sofia Bekatore. We're not willing to do anyone's grace. We have to work for the common good. We work with the many for many, we bother the few and the permanent, but it's a conscious choice, it's a government decision, and we'll take it to the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u118	Thank you very much, Mr. Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u119	Thank you very much for the time, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u120	You have an obligation, Mr. Secretary, to go to the D.A. as you know. Don't spare anyone! Have a good day to both of you. Ladies and gentlemen, the first item under number 2211/385/30-11-20 will now be debated and the question and application for documents from the circle of petitions and questions by the Member of the NGO, Mr Athanasios Davakis, to the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: 'Why did the Department of Nursing of the University of Peloponnese rejected the proposal for cooperation by the Stavros Niarchos Foundation'? Mr. Davakis, good evening! You have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, Mr President. On 26 November 2020 the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, in a communication, stated, Minister, among other things: ‘In the context of the effort to investigate cooperation of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation with the nursing sector in the country, he proposed to the Department of Nursing of the Department of Nursing of the University of Peloponnese that cooperation be established with the hospital under construction, which he builds in Sparta the Stavros Niarchos Foundation and in four years' time will be ready.’ As the "Stavros Niarchos" Foundation says in its official communication: "The Foundation's proposal to investigate such a possibility of co-operation, for the implementation of which the Foundation would probably have undertaken a significant extra construction cost by increasing its existing donation,..." - that is to say, it would have put further money, more financial resources - "... it was not accepted by the School of Nursing and the University of Peloponnese. Therefore, the "Stavros Niarchos" Foundation has abandoned this proposal..." - Minister - "Let it be left at the discretion of the State, while continuing, as part of his health initiative, his work". This discretionary power of the state I asked me in November of last year, but also in today's intervention in the House. This question has not been answered and under the well-known procedure of parliamentary scrutiny it has come from me for a debate in the House. In this question, therefore, I asked for the contents of this proposal from the Stavros Niarchos Foundation to be submitted to the Department of Nursing, that is, what the Foundation said to the Department of Nursing and the reasoning of the University of Peloponnese, the Department of Nursing, to reject the proposal of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation. So this issue, which, for me beyond the academic criteria, is also a matter of moral, academic, scientific and political importance, comes to the House today, asking you to reply from the new political leadership - and I wish you success in your duties and your work. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, Mr Davaki. The Deputy Minister of Education and Religious Affairs Mr. Evangelos Syrigos will answer. Mr. Syragos, good evening and ironhead! Courage above everything!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u123	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Davaki, thank you very much for your question. It is true that the Stavros Niarchos Foundation has provided a very large donation to one of the many large donations it has made in recent years. He took over to fund hospitals in Komotini, Thessaloniki and Sparta. In this context, he did propose that the University of Peloponnese transfer the Department of Nursing from Tripoli to Sparta. There was also an online meeting, at which the offer was announced, the donation of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation to Sparta, at the University of Peloponnese, by the Government itself. Mr. Gerapitris, Mr. Kikilias, my chief minister, Mr. Kerameos, my predecessor, Mr. Vassilis Digalakis, participated and informed the Rectorship of the University of Peloponnese. On this subject, the University of Peloponnese replied negatively. The reasons he has responded negatively, from what we have been informed, are academics and more specifically said that the new hospital is not expected to be the same capacity as the Panarcadian Tripolis Hospital - that is to say, 50% - and that this is not going to happen now, but it will work, as you said, in 2025, in four years. After that, they rejected the offer of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, proposing the establishment of a Rehabilitation Center, which will work with those already operating in Sparta, Physics and Sports Conservation Departments.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u124	Thank you very much. Here, Mr. Davakis, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u125	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the House in Rule 133, the Member is entitled to request documents relating to the public sphere in relation to public affairs. So the University of Peloponnese had to submit the documents requested by the MP. As you know, this is a public case. It is neither national security nor foreign and defence matters that exist in another process. He had to testify with the University of Peloponnese. The self-employed doesn't mean autonomy. Autonomousism is an issue which has been resolved by the Council of State's decision 520/2015, when they appealed to members of the university to cancel the e-electoral election of teachers against the Diamantopoulou Act, who - I am sure - had a large majority in this Chamber. So the self-employed and the self-employed, by virtue of which they do not reply to us under Rule 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, which is also the law of the State. They say what you have read to me, Minister - and you call on you to conduct a matter which you did not know, as you now take it, but, in any case, that is the ingrained role of political leadership - for the capacity of beds. As I said to you in the Foundation's original communication, the Foundation scrutinised the university as the construction of the hospital is in progress and even said: 'we will put more money in the event of you getting your approval'. This means that there would be a better development of the hospital built in Sparta by the Foundation and, in any case, better clinical education, which was the main criterion for transferring the Gavroglou law, which we as a New Democracy called a monastery, Minister, from Sparta to Tripoli. The Nursing School was in Sparta - I say it to help - and went with the Gavroglou Law in Tripoli, because for 15 years - then they remembered it - there was no proper clinical education. So now we are saying that what the University of Peloponnese answers to us in my view - and I speak politically - is deaf, opaque. The university and self-employed cannot be changed to a shield of sectoral interests. There must be clear indications. What clear indications? "Take, Mr Davaki, fifty pages of academic criteria to have, because we are no longer going from Tripoli to Sparta to do clinical training." [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Thanks for the tolerance. He asked for cooperation from a large institution, which has a long journey of unselfish supply to the Greek society and the Greek people, and a specific response from the university would be this: academic criteria and 50% capacity. Then why wasn't the Pancarcad Hospital a reference hospital now with COVID? Why, Minister, and the library and all furniture, for example, at the private university in Sparta, where the Nursing School was housed, have not been moved yet? All this composes a scenery - I'd say - opaque. It's not the self-help, county or the Princess of Mores! The Commissioners should answer them, because they too, like all of us, are subject to public accountability in this Chamber where the Greek people are represented, who, in any case, pays them, as they pay for all of us. You realize that these are political issues and I call on the political leadership to intervene, to ask for more detailed explanations from the university, from the Department of Nursing, to tell us in detail what academic criteria prohibit a modern hospital from accepting the students of the Nursing School, when one and a half years ago their teachers invoked the unsatisfactory clinical education - which I question - and they were transferred - how fate brings them! - Tripoli. I believe that it is a matter of deep and political concern. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, too. Mr. Syrigos, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u127	Thank you, Mr President. Unfortunately, I won't use them. It is obvious, Mr President, that here we have a conflict between the Principality of Moreos and the Despotatos of Mystras in your region! But I must stress that here we have the self-government of universities, full self-government, which does not allow the Ministry of Education to go into the essence of what an academic institution invokes, since it invokes academic criteria. I mean from a formal point of view. It is an exclusive issue, it is their power to decide on academic affairs with their own institutions and their own responsibility, in the context of general and abstract arrangements adopted by formal law or by a regulatory act. There has been a decision by the Council of State since 1984 on this matter. So the Ministry of Education simply conveys the view of the University of Peloponnese, which is not able to go into substance, which in this case is the academic criteria invoked by the university. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u128	Thank you very much, Mr. Syrigos. Come to us regularly. It wasn't even your dentistry. We move on to the second debate under No 2742/16-12-2020 on the question of the circle of petitions and questions by the Member of the SYRIZA Halkidiki - a Progressive Alliance of Sunday Malamas to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: 'Inadmissible pressure of the tax collector's pressure on borrowers in the midst of a pandemic'. Mrs Malama, you have two minutes at your disposal if you don't get a phone call from any collectibles!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, in this difficult period of pandemic many of our fellow citizens have a huge problem in serving their loans. It is not strategically ill-paid, but for people whose economic activity is affected by health conditions, by prohibitions and by the economic crisis. They are people who have always served their loans on time, who have had housed businesses and who have never failed a malicious payment. These people were supposed to have a horizontal'umbrella' protection, not only to ensure that the'red' loans to the Greek economy are not increased, but to enable these people to remain economically active and have the opportunity to start their economic activity again when we get out of this health crisis. Moreover, the recommendations of the Greek Banking Union, as well as the European Banking Authority, which call on credit institutions to provide adequate arrangements for borrowers for the duration of this crisis. Unfortunately, however, in the case of Greece, there are cases which escape from these general guidelines. I am referring in particular to the practices of the company managing the loans of the old Agricultural Bank, the «Single Special Settlement S.A.». (PQH)’. This company, which operates as a special liquidator of the Ministry of Finance, refuses to offer the lenders " umbrella" protection from the pandemic and uses aggressive pressure practices, in cooperation with collector companies, legal offices, leading to a dead end to these weak borrowers, who have once received a loan from the Agricultural Bank and are now affected by health bans. And I ask you, Minister, this: will you finally proceed to strict recommendations to this company so that it can operate in accordance with the Greek and European guidelines to the borrowers whose loans it manages? Will you act immediately so that this company can make arrangements to protect the weak borrowers? The Ministry of Finance, as well as the Bank of Greece, should intervene in this matter, which is supposed to be the institutional reserve of the ethics of this sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, Mrs. Malama. The Deputy Minister of Finance, George Zavvos, will answer. Mr. Undersecretary, good evening! You have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u131	Good evening, Mr. President. Madam Commissioner, first of all, I would like to make it clear that the government, as well as the banks, has taken a number of important measures to relieve the pandemic affected. I think the ministers have largely explained, even today, all these measures and the significant impact they had on Greek citizens. I will focus more specifically on the issues you are talking about, but I would like to say that, as early as December, the Greek Banking Union, which follows exactly the recommendations, the guidelines of the European Banking Authority, decided to extend, as we know, due to the continuing adverse consequences of the pandemic on all the existing facilities for borrowers, who obviously aim to strengthen the Greek economy. You know, why you mentioned it, that the PQH company is a limited company and does not function - we have to make discrimination always, they are useful - as a collector or debtor information company. It is - and you mentioned it, I think - a special liquidator of the credit institutions that have been set up in a special way in the past, in particular, topics relating to the old agricultural Bank. The main creditors of ‘PQH’ are the former employees of the credit and financial institutions under special liquidation, as well as the Financial Stability Fund and the Deposit and Investment Guarantee Fund and the Greek State. We have the assurances and written statements - I think they have been sent to you, or I can also present them to Parliament - by the 'PQH'. Credit institutions under special liquidation after withdrawal shall not be members of the Association of Greek Banks and shall not be bound by decisions. However, the "PQH" has taken into account the general guidelines of the Greek Banking Union to its members and implements them from the very beginning. More specifically, ‘PQH’ has taken specific initiatives for consistent borrowers that are obviously included in its management portfolio. These initiatives are little - very much the same. They are equivalent to the actions of these systemic banks, as we have seen from the announcements made by the Association of Greek Banks, both on the eligibility criteria for borrowers and on the initial facility offered. These facilities, for example, include capitalisation of outstanding debts, suspensions of payments, extension of the duration of arrangements and various other, depending on the relevant claims of the recipients of consistent borrowers. Such facilities may be extended at the request of the borrower. In any case - I think - we should bear in mind that 'PQH' is considering all the claims made by the debtors for their inclusion in instalment suspension programmes, provided that two basic conditions are met. One is that those seeking, should be informed and, second, provenly, should have been affected by the crisis. At the same time, we know that in all the programmes relating to the aid of borrowers, the GFCF programme, interest subsidy action, etc., PQH provides support to the competent authorities and facilitates eligible debtors. In addition, the company itself assures us that it has given clear orders for the non-implementation of operations to the detriment of borrowers, of course always in the context of the application of the abovementioned rules. Therefore, on the basis of the data we have, there does not seem to be any differentiation, some distinction in the context of the arrangements offered by commercial banks - the systemic banks - and, on the other hand, the 'PQH', since it is of course always borrowers who are really affected by the pandemic. Also, with regard to the issue of supervision, to which you referred, yes, of course, we have in mind and recall that PQH is supervised by the Bank of Greece and is obliged to observe the code of conduct issued by its supervisory authority and applied to credit institutions. If nonetheless - despite all the elements we have - you have some specific complaints, I would ask you very much to present them to the Ministry of Finance and you will help us better so that, on the one hand, we can also inform the Bank of Greece of our regulatory role. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u132	And thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. Mrs Malama, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u133	Mr. Undersecretary, generalists don't help. I'm sorry. There are many of our fellow citizens who really experience - let me say 'buling' literally by this company. I would like to mention - since you yourself have proposed it to me - in some cases, to be more specific. Borrower of a six-member family whose contract was suspended, faces the analgesia and terrorism of ‘PQH’, which, in the midst of his pandemic increased the loan instalment from EUR 330 per month to EUR 915 per month on the grounds that he was unemployed and accumulated a debt of EUR 2,900. He is told by the legal department that they have already launched the procedures for the auctioning of his first and only residence as soon as the lockdown has finished. He was specifically told by saying: "We know that your house has an objective value of EUR 90,000. If you don't give the money, we'll confiscate you." This is an example. At the request of this borrower for a more favourable arrangement, they replied to him: 'We are not even discussing it'. Let me also mention a second case of a loan hotel to the former agricultural Bank, which went to PQH. He denounces that while he has joined the affected activity numbers, this company has ceased to provide him with a payment facility for his loan since June and until today. When he reiterated his request again in view of the collapse of the tourist season, his company replied by way of an extrajudicial response and even referred his file to a well-known law firm, which threatens him on a daily basis to proceed with the auctioning of his professional housing. Immediately - I have two examples. And I ask you: can you allow such practices? Is it possible to send citizens and professionals to Kaidas in the midst of the pandemic? Shouldn't we raise a wall of protection for vulnerable people? That is why we are waiting for concrete measures and an immediate solution to this issue. Otherwise, businesses and families will be destroyed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u134	Thank you very much, Mrs Malama. Mr. Undersecretary, you have three minutes for your dentistry as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u135	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to give some clarification. The government has so far taken all the necessary and strong measures, if you wish, to guide the banks, as has the European authority, so that they can give suspensions in many cases. I wanted to say that according to the information available, only between January and November 2020, suspensions were given to some four hundred thousand businesses and private individuals totalling 30 billion, counting with many other measures the painful effects of the health crisis. Not to mention the 'GEOFYRA' programme through which the public has been contributing for quite a period of time and as nine months the instalment for the repayment of loans by natural and legal persons. I mean, too, something we ignore. On the issues of so-called loan management companies - the servicers - more than seventy-five thousand loan arrangements have so far been made for over EUR 2 billion in portfolios that have been transferred outside bank balance sheets and which give thousands of borrowers a debt-debt solution. We should understand which categories of companies we are talking about. If these concern collecting companies, you know that there is a strict framework, which is supervised by the General Secretariat of Trade and Consumer Protection of the Ministry of Development. To the extent that the issues concern another category, namely, the so-called loan management companies, the so-called servicers, they fall within my competence. I must tell you that there is a strict legal framework. Management companies shall be supervised by the Bank of Greece. There is a full application of the code of conduct and there is obviously a possibility of making specific complaints. In short, I would like to say that we are taking and implementing all the necessary measures with which we are trying to ease the painful consequences of the crisis. As far as banks are concerned, the single special liquidation and management companies also know that they provide facilities for borrowers. There are also specific programmes to support borrowers. I would therefore like to make it clear that the state and the government are next to the citizens, especially at these difficult times, and above all to our vulnerable fellow citizens, so that at some point - we hope in the near future - we can see with optimism the end of this pandemic. In any case again, I would like to say that if there are specific complaints, you can send them to the Treasury, where the appropriate transmission and processing will obviously take place to the Bank of Greece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u136	Thank you very much, Mr. Undersecretary. I wish you both a good weekend. Ladies and gentlemen, the third subject under number 303/18-1-2021 is not debated after consultation by the third question of the first cycle of the Members of the Elias Movement, Mr Michael Katrin, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: 'Increasing the repayable advance and long-term settlements of debts need the market to stand up'. The first question under number 322/18-1-2021 is not discussed in consultation with the Greek Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The mystical strategy of the banks strangles Greek businesses." The second question, under number 323/18-1-2021, is not discussed in consultation with the Minister of Finance, on the question of 'unjustified suffering and burden on farmers by the Ministry of Finance and the Independent Authority of Public Revenues (ADI) which they consider to be incorrectly subsidisation, compensation for COVID -19 and investment aid'. Nor will it be debated because of the blockade of the Member, the second with number 313/18-1-2021, a topical question by SYRIZA MEP - Progressive Alliance Mr.Alexandros Meikopoulou to the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: 'Do not continue the rail isolation of Magnesia'. We now move on to the discussion of the fourth under number 318/18-1-2021 of the first cycle of the MP B3' South Athens Sector of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Assignation of a Collective Labour Convention for Workers at the National Lyceum - Working Conventions in the State Theatres". Mr Kattotis, good evening, you have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u137	Thank you, Mr President. Workers on the National Opera and state theatres are in revolt, because under the pretext of pandemic they promote adverse changes in their labour rights. More specifically, at the end of July 2020, and after many months of negotiations, the employees of the National Lyrical Scene were in agreement with its administration to sign a collective labour contract. These conditions were discussed in detail, Minister, after having received the promise of both the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Culture, on the possible monthly feeding allowance for the employees paid by a single wage. Five months after the signing of the contract workers were informed by the President of the Board of Directors. The National Lyrian Tent that the Minister of Finance, in breach of his promise, refuses to ratify the contract because he considers the above provision to be a new element that the country's economy cannot withstand. I would remind you that this provision is already given to the workers of the National Theatre and is in the budget of the National Theatre and the State Theatre of Northern Greece, with an associated code in their budget. The same unauthorised attitude is the non-signature, Minister, of the collective agreement at the National Theatre for the actors ten months after the end of the previous year, since its administration does not recognise the actors' requests for live streaming compensation on the basis of Law 2121/93, while obliging musicians to sign contracts with 20% less wages than even in the previous season. I shall end, Mr President, on the National Opera - I shall end, Mr President - there is a risk that many temporary staff contracts, which end in the next period and within this pandemic period, will not be renewed, even though this is usually because they cover constant needs, as has been done recently in the case of a talented dancer contract. We ask you, Minister, if you intend to take measures to validate the collective agreement of the National Lyrical Scene, including the feeding allowance, to renew the fixed-term contracts of workers in the National Theatre and to become indefinite, to proceed without delay with the signing of a contract for actors at the National Theatre and to assimilate the fees of musicians to the productions of the National Theatre with those of the other factors. We're waiting for your answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u138	Thank you very much, Mr Katsotis. The Deputy Minister of Finance will answer Mr. Skylakakis. Mr. Dogfish, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank the honourable Member for the question. To start by clarifying a few things about the collective agreements concerning the general government. First, on the basis of the law, these collective agreements cannot have wage benefits. They can only have non-wage benefits. Therefore, when the honourable Member makes a reference to a feeding allowance, he understands that he is talking about wage benefits. A sound wording should be'subsidy provisions', which are similar to what used to be the case in the municipalities, which have experience of milk, i.e. during work and not for sublime wage benefits, under the heading 'non-wage benefits'. The second thing I would like to say to the House and to the honourable Member is that, given what has happened to the country's budgetary realities, that is that we have a huge deficit that we suffered in 2020 due to the pandemic and a very serious deficit that we will have in 2021, we must be very careful about financial management. The intention of the Ministry of Finance and, in particular, the General Secretariat for Budget Policy is that we do not have, as a rule, any increase until the pandemic ends in the public sector - which, as you know, has been fully protected against the private sector - and to devote all the resources available to support those who have actually been affected by the pandemic. As far as the phrase 'promise of the Ministry of Finance' is concerned, you should know that the General Accounting Office generally does not provide any promises of any kind. When the time comes, he's signing or not signing. In the present case, it has not signed and until the conclusion of a collective agreement, the word 'promise' does not exist either. I'm saying this so we know what things are like. As far as these kinds of benefits are concerned, there should be a single line. This is difficult, because many times the administrations negotiate, end up somewhere and then send us to the General Accounting Office, to what they have come up with. Then I find myself in the unpleasant position of restricting administrations, because there must be a single line. I understand what you said about the National Theatre. Indeed, the National Theatre had a different treatment from the previous government in relation to the Lyceum. The collective agreement of the Lyric scene, the last that existed, was 2008. So people there have a point. We'll see what we can do, but until the end of the pandemic there's nothing we can do.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u140	Thank you very much, Mr. Dog. Mr Katsotis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u141	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, first of all, I do not think the workers themselves lie in relation to their meetings and the assurance that they agree with the operatives, as you have said, that is a correct term. Let's say that, let's take it. And so let us sign the collective agreement with the operatives for the National Opera, which will cover the equivalent of the National Theatre, as an agreement that has been reached in the previous period. It's an issue that I don't think should get in the way. You are talking about collective bargaining. The government has already brought law in relation to them. He's talking about free negotiations. Of course, under the terms that we disagree radically, because they are not free. There is the 'cutter', as you say, of budgetary discipline. We believe, therefore, that it is not possible, in this context, to say 'we do not sign' today, whereas the conditions are within these frameworks that you yourself have established in the law on collective bargaining. You say'single line'. That, of course, also responded to the unhealthy allowance a short time ago when the question had been asked. You are claiming to be exempt from the financial freedom that the European Union gives at this time, what it costs. But, Minister, the life of the worker itself is said to be a cost. That's what you're saying. And you've cut wages and pensions. All this time, since the previous crisis, from 2009 until now, the same logic prevails, namely that wages, pensions, overturning labour rights, abolishing collective labour contracts, which you have abolished, so that there are no collective agreements either in the private or in the public sector, dominating a working jungle and having a wage of EUR 200. We believe that it is a policy which causes the workers who produce wealth and need to oppose it to claim collective labour contracts by meeting their demands, by increasing their wages and improving their working relations. The crisis must not be reloaded to the workers themselves, as the previous one was loaded. And she's deeper. We believe that the government's intention - with the demand, of course, of business groups - is to level what remains with terrorism, authoritarianism, all that the Minister for Civil Protection has already announced yesterday, but also with what Mr Hadjidakis has announced about the new bill which brings about the abolition of the eighth, the abolition of trade union rights. But she will find the workers against her, Minister. The fight will continue. The interests you serve are, unfortunately, foreign to the lives of the workers themselves. We also call on the workers in the Ukraine to claim what they have already agreed, what they demand from the government and you deprive them of.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u142	Thank you very much, Mr Katsotis. Minister, you have three minutes for dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u143	Thank you very much. I see that the object was widened and left the National Opera. It's understandable. I will respond first to budgetary freedom. Financial freedom exists for COVID expenditure. There is no non-COVID expenditure. That's clear. The second is that we as a government, with religious devotion, did not, did not and did not intend to make any cuts in wages and pensions. On the contrary, despite the fact that there is this huge blow to public finances, we have protected wages and pensions. The third is that collective bargaining in the private sector and collective bargaining in the public sector have a substantial difference. The collective bargaining in the private sector relates to negotiations with private employers. The collective bargaining in the public sector is, in fact, the employer of all of us, who is the taxpayer, who in these negotiations - unlike the private employer - is the weakest part. For decades the taxpayer in these collective public negotiations has been not favoured. When the taxpayer was the private worker - and I can assure you that among the heaviest taxpayers Greeks it was the private workers - he saw that his salaries were much smaller than those which, as employers, were giving the public sector. Either way, that's the way it happened. Today it is reasonable to say that as long as a substantial part of the private sector is affected solely by this crisis, because this crisis is not evenly affected by the private and the public, thanks to the government, the resources we have, which are finite and limited, must go to those who are affected. Let me just tell you. When we have some workers who have to live with the EUR 534 for months, we cannot give increases in public from the front or back door.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u144	Thank you both very much. Have a good weekend for both. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-22-S1-commons.u145	With the consent of the House at 14.21 p.m. the sitting on Monday, 25 January, 2021, at 13.00, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent questions.
