ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are entering the agenda for the INQUIRY The debate will be taken at number 6/19-11-2020 on a topical question by the President of the Parliamentary Group of the Change Movement, Mr Fotinis (Phot) Genomes and Members of Parliament, and so on. Georgiou Frangidis, Dimitrios Baggi, Michael Katrin, Georgios Arvanitides, Ilhan Ahmet, Konstantinos (Nantias) Giannakopoulou, Christos Gokas, Georgiou Kaminis, Charalambou Kastanides, Vassiliou Kegeroglou, Charulas (Haras), Kefalou, Odyssea Konstantinopoulos, Dimitrios Konstantinopoulos, Evangelos Liikados, Andreas Lovertos, Georgiou Mulkiotis, Baran Bucharan, Apostle Pana, Georgios Papandreou, Andreas Poulas and Konstantinos Scandalidis to the Ministers of Tourism, Economic, Labour and Social Affairs and Religious Affairs, where the Greek Government is concerned. Parliamentary Representatives have been appointed by the Movement of Change by Mr.Michalis Katrinis, MP of Ilias, from New Democracy Mr.Ioannis Vroutsis, MP of Cyclades, from SYRIZA, Catherine Notopoulou, MP of the Communist Party of Greece, from the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Katsotis, MP B3' South Athens, from the Greek Solution Mr. Vasiliardos, MP of the State, and from Mera25 Mr.George Logiadis, MP of Heraklion. He has the floor for the first time a member of the Change Movement, George Frangidis, MP Kilkis, for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, it's been five months since the question. You're late to answer, but I see that you're late and you're here today. I don't know why. Ladies and gentlemen, the government's management of the crisis in the tourism sector in the year that passed us was a matter of amateur manoeuvres, backwards, omissions and mistakes. I am referring, for example, to the delayed and unrealistic health protocols, to the incomplete checks on travellers by whatever means they travel, to the opening of land borders and to the aggregation of land tourists, to the aggregation of ships in the summer, to the unclear and incomplete information of tourists and professionals in the sector on what they are called to implement and how, the problems with the specific forms of locating a traveller, which led to aggregation and defamation of the country abroad, to the unacceptable classification of islands based on the risk, to the failure to create COVID -19 hotels. And these are just a few cases. As a result, the absence of an integrated plan for the crisis in tourism and the management of the government led to the loss of the sector not being minimised. The situation for the accommodation industry was not ideal before the pandemic. In September 2019 the collapse of “THOMAS COOK” achieved a powerful blow. According to the Bank of Greece, more than one in four loans from the accommodation sector in 2019 were already non-performing, without taking into account a large number of red loans to the loan management companies and credit to be liquidated. We would like, Minister, to inform us about this. On the question of ‘THOMAS COOK’, it was only the Government that made it possible to grant extensions to the deadline for payment of VAT, for invoices of companies that had traded with the company. In the pandemic tourism enterprises needed liquidity, which was not ultimately guaranteed by the exclusion of most of the TIPI II and the Guarantee Fund loans. And of course, then came in 2020 that proved to be a tragic year for tourism. Recreational travel revenues, according to Bank of Greece data from EUR 15.9 billion, were landed at EUR 3.5 billion. I mean, we had an 80% descent. The economy and society of the country have been hardened for over a year by its pandemic and its consequences. On a health level we experience the peak of the third wave, with the National Health System being suffocated, since it has not been sufficiently based on human and logistic equipment. In the second and third waves at stake, which were no longer the speed of action, but how society and the economy will remain alive, it turned out that the government did not have sufficient mechanism and no political will to do so. This demonstrates that the national health system is not strengthened, that citizens are incompletely informed, that health care is insufficiently activated, that lockdown accordions, mass media crowds, unnecessary and ineffective horizontal restrictive measures, and that ambiguous messages that are confusing in the world. But the experts say, but the ministers, the Prime Minister. The market is in protracted shock and unprecedented recession. Tourism by a main feeder of the Greek economy has become a great patient and is now a affected industry. The Government decided to open up tourist activities on 14 May. However, the situation on the Greek tourism market is precarious and unequivocal. The actual start date of the tourist season will be much later and its course will depend on health developments and vaccination course. The first quarter has already been lost and the reservations are almost nonexistent. European governments are urging their citizens to avoid travel abroad, in an effort to maintain the health control of the pandemic in their country and to support their internal tourism. The restrictive measures of the governments, the fear of quarantine, the cancellations of the last minute and the return of money, the fear of health and the cost of the tests are deterring travel. In Germany, which traditionally prefers Greece as a tourist destination, this summer's reservations have been reduced by 76% compared to last year's season, as the Association of German Tourism Enterprises says. Since the beginning of March, the cancellations have exceeded the new bookings. In Britain, things remain uncertain, with the government opting for a travel-mark system based on risk assessment in the country of destination. This concerns two countries that are key supporters of Greek tourism. Reservations are subject to flexible cancellation policy this year and most are transports from the previous year. Hopes depend mainly on the mobility of August-November. More hotels are expected to be opened last year, but with many offers and therefore smaller revenues. Those businesses who fail to open for a second year lose their connection to the market and to tourist agents. Thousands of businesses are planting and threatening with a padlock, many have remained closed with a state mandate and others, such as mountain hotels, were open, but in fact no object or activity and no support for a long time. Workers in the field are insecure. Workingly acquired years are at stake. Unemployment is growing. Indeed, at the complete opening-up of the market and the conclusion of protective measures for workers there is a risk of aggregation of redundancies. Sectoral contracts remain in the air. There are seasonal workers who have left unprotected and categories of workers who have been insufficiently supported, while their financial obligations are running. Recently it has been decided unjustly to cut the rent reduction on those who have made unilateral suspension of a contract. Many cannot collect the benefits they are entitled to, because the state has not yet displayed its trademarks. You ask tourist buses as a prerequisite for the receipt of the grant July and August 2020 of an electronic readable mark as 29-12-2020, which has now been abolished. 40% to 50% of the tourist buses in Greece in the middle of a pandemic have not been able to issue a signal. You do not give any time extension and people lose the subsidy. Minister, the transition to post pandemic must be done without extensive losses so that the structure of Greek tourism is not destroyed. Businesses and employees need substantial support. The lack of liquidity is likely to lead to the locking and deflection of tourist businesses if in 2021 the obligations accumulated since last year are not met. We have made proposals for forward measures, such as a reduction in VAT on focusing and tourism to 6%, a suspension of the measure of increased VAT on the islands, a abolition of the fee of residence, a regulation of debts in a hundred and twenty instalments and a cut, a suspension of payments of bank loans for four to six months, a 100% subsidy for insurance contributions for six months with an employment clause immediately after the opening, suspension of auctions and bankruptcy law for all 2021. Last year we proposed a serious and costly program to exit tourism from the crisis. Our proposal is still timely. The realistic goal for 2021 is to be a year of survival, maintenance and founding of solid bases for the future of Greek tourism. The immediate question is to extend this season as far as possible until November. In order to achieve this, however, some conditions are needed. What is the country's readiness for the safe opening of tourism and what is the plan for its recovery? We are not yet convinced that the government has a complete plan to open up and restore tourism. No action has been taken to strengthen health structures in tourist destinations. How are we going to open safely on 14 May? Tourism workers haven't been vaccinated yet. But it is, on the one hand, a high risk that they may incur or transmit the coronary on the other hand when they are vaccinated it will be the best advertisement for safe holidays. You know, Minister, that it takes a month to complete a vaccination in two instalments. And to begin now the vaccination of workers will arrive in June - July. Also, for those who do not want to be vaccinated, there should be mandatory test. You announced self-tests. We propose that we check every Monday from the EGE and the self-tests during the week. For road tourism, what have you predicted? Has the gates of entry been reinforced to stalks and equipment in the country? All land borders must be opened, there must be strict control over the incomings and last year's phenomena with false certificates. What actions have you taken for all this? You announced improved health protocols for this year. Are enterprises sufficiently informed? Have workers received the relevant training and certification? Do they know how to manage a COVID incident? With COVID hotels, what better are you going to do this year? Last year the call of interest did not find the desired response, mainly due to low daily compensation. Many hoteliers have not yet paid for their services. Internal tourism will also be a sign of saving Greek tourism this year. We proposed to you last year a brave programme, which you did not adopt. Your own casing program has brought with it a merciful result. Adopt at least this year our proposal for a budget of EUR 750 million, with three million beneficiaries and fifteen million overnight stays. The tourist product needs to be updated and upgraded, emphasis should be placed on the development of the thematic and experiential experience of tourism, which will contribute to the long-standing expansion of the tourist season. The cruise needs redesign. The digitisation of services, the training of staff, the effective promotion of our tourism product is also crucial. The problem of forest maps needs to be resolved. It is a timely request from the Destination Management Bodies. What have you done for all this? Tourism is a multifactorial process, which needs a comprehensive plan and not just fragmentary measures. At every opportunity, we point out that we need to plan in a decade. In July 2019 you promised such a programme, but so far nothing has been done at all. That is all we are waiting for your answers today, Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Biagis, Member of the House, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u4	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, last year's difficult tourist season had to be a product of study and reflection for our country. We had to see it as a great opportunity, from which we had to draw conclusions with a positive sign, so that the same mistakes were not repeated. The planning for tomorrow should include its safe conclusions yesterday, combined with our proposals for the future. We must therefore weigh all the data from last season and assess them accordingly. We had to see the impact of tourism on the country's epidemiological map, the countries of origin of cases, the gateways of entry and the possible mischeck that might have taken place at the gates. We had to see whether or not tourism enterprises were complying with the new health rules, irregularities, dystomia, deficiencies, any inadequacies in the island regions, which are the front of our tourism product. Some of our islands may be COVID FREE, but they all suffer from downgraded and understaffed health structures and insufficient maritime transport. Minister, the year after the Change Movement tabled two amendments to the Greek Parliament, in order to encourage the recruitment of doctors on the islands. One amendment concerned financial incentives and the second, scientific and service. Your Government has shown no response to the matter. Ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic in its passage has substantially altered the economic framework of agreements governing the operation of our tourism business, with the major travel agents. The state, as a mere observer, fails to perform its role by allowing businesses to lose, one after the other, their weapons to withstand international competition. "TUI", one of the world's largest travel agencies, decided, in the year that we spent, not to pay businessmen the money they owed from 2020 contracts in October and to pay them in March or April. It's March. April passes. No word from the 'front'. Instead, this year, alongside the new symbols, it also unilaterally decided not to pay the advances as they were due, as well as any payments to start after July. This is what we are called upon to manage today, Minister: monomer games at the expense of our entrepreneurs. The scenery has changed dramatically. Have you realised that? So you advise, Minister, all these entrepreneurs. Suggest them what they should do. The judgments are now unilateral, whereas the vast majority of the contracts are competent courts to resolve these foreign courts. Most of our entrepreneurs feel helpless to react. We envision, Minister, a ministry'strategic', which will disguise the needs of our potential visitors, but also of the people of tourist businesses and workers, and will transform all these hears into realistic proposals. A ministry that will escape the simple management and bureaucracy that characterizes the Greek state. A Ministry dealing with maritime and air transport and looking for ways to strengthen them. Especially at this difficult time is more need than ever. A ministry that will define relations and lay the foundations for cooperation with the major international tourist offices, which citizens will see next door, in the problems that arise daily. We had to be ahead of international decisions. Instead, we have become mere observers of developments, unable to take substantial initiatives to ensure that businesses in tourism and the tourism product in general are guaranteed. Ladies and gentlemen, today as long as a multi-dimensional development model, with a body of measures at health and economic level, with strict travel protocols and forecasts for tourism and for workers, is necessary. We tabled proposals in good time from the pandemic crisis, even before this crisis, when ThOMAS COOK was simply pouring out the alarm. Proposals for the control of the tourism market, the strengthening of the role of the EOT, the creation of the Crisis Management Committee and the genuine care against all those involved in tourism and experience the consequences of the pandemic on their minds. Instead, we have seen, on the side of the government, oligories, delays, depreciation behaviours to the people who lift their backs to the country's tourism industry: to the workers in the tourist offices, tour guides, tour guides, tour operators, duty-free, to airports, to ports, to the employees in car rental. At the same time, the quarantine hotels of the previous season remain unpaid. What plan, what policy to talk about? Ladies and gentlemen, in the island regions, which tourism is the most important economic activity, the attack is expanding, upsetting the country's social cohesion and economic cohesion. Islandity and development of tourism are two-way concepts. The tourist product offered to our islands is directly related to the level of its development. Tourist exploitation is the vast advantage of our islands, as well as the main source of prosperity and progress. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, if there is no time, I should also like to take my dentistry if you are kind.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u5	I'd be happy, Mr. Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u6	Thank you. Today, for our country, it cannot be understood effective and sustainable development of tourism without sustainable development and strengthening the island region. It is a doctrine, a prefecture, which at least as a political area, as a progressive democratic party, we have understood and have seen as our dominant political position. Ladies and gentlemen, support for tourism must be at the top of the agenda. The issue for us is the quality holidays, which will focus on health, safety and well-being, but also on knitting local societies and products with the visitor. We have proposed in time the creation of an overcrowded tourist investment bank, a clear framework for environmental management of tourism enterprises, especially in island areas. We have proposed strengthening and exploiting the structures of tourism education, with incentives to educate and train business staff in the new data and protocols. Instead, we are experiencing the decline and the danger of tourist schools closing down. A characteristic example, Mr Minister, is Corfu's IKK of Tourism Professions, which, from twenty permanent trainers and employees, currently counts only his director and administrative staff of two people, whose contracts expire, and in June he is preparing to take down the rolls. We have proposed new specific provisions for the small islands of the country to give real impetus to island life and marine tourism, doing policies that redefinite the multi-faceted relationship between the state and the islands. Instead, we experienced from you and from the state in general the raw, horizontal management during the pandemic that cost and cost our islands. Ladies and gentlemen, we consider the need to draw up another plan for tourism to be self-evident. We even call on the government to take measures to support the island, particularly by taking immediate measures to support the island region, focusing on the citizen and small and medium-sized enterprises, clearly and above all with a vision. Even at the last moment we invite you, Minister, not to listen to us, but to society itself. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u7	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Mr Mulkiotis, Member of the European Parliament, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately I feel that for the second year we are in the same spectators' work. While under normal conditions tourism would have been opened, today, April 19, 2021, we are in complete uncertainty. And this is happening while Greek tourism in 2020 was hit hard with 80% losses on revenues and arrivals, closed businesses, thousands of workers staying without work and without income and of course uncertainty. While the government has already announced on 14 May the country's tourist openness, to the great disappointment of the business world and workers, has not yet succeeded, it has not yet succeeded in reaching agreement and reaching the final way of opening up, but also the revised health measures and protocols, so that tourism operators and providers of the services concerned can organise - which is self-evident - and prepare accordingly. On May 14th, tourism opens, but it remains unknown when the vaccination will start for both hotels and tourist professions. So, Minister, this is the design of your Government for a safe opening of tourism, or are you guarding us and any other surprise? We'll hear it. Last year's spasmodic opening of tourism and the ruthless government retreat from the original designs of scientists did not teach us anything. Unfortunately, the suffering does not seem to have become a lesson, and today the workers in the wider tourism chain are faced with unemployment, contraction or loss of wages and job uncertainty, Mr Brutsis, for the future. Unfortunately, it's a reality. As many seasonal enterprises remain closed due to restrictive measures and accumulated economic problems, many employees last worked in 2019 and it is questionable whether and how they will work in 2021. We, as the Change Movement, the President, the Parliamentary Group, the political office, since the beginning of the pandemic and throughout the previous period have formulated concrete, costing and justified proposals for the protection of jobs and the financial support of sectors such as tourism, which are vital to the Greek economy. In particular, Madam President, we have proposed nine key points: First point. A special advance payment programme for retailing and focusing, with 70% being direct aid and mainly the reduction of the turnover. Second point. Reduction of VAT by 50% of the current VAT on all islands from 1 May to 15 November 2021. Third point. Adjust the debts in a hundred and twenty instalments and haircut of the liabilities by 30%. Fourth point. Suspension of payment of bank loans for four to six months. Fifth point. A grant of 100% of insurance contributions for six months, with an employment clause, immediately after the opening. Sixth point: Suspension of auctions and bankruptcy law for the whole year 2021. Seventh point: Specific measures for support to transport and the coastline. Eighth point: Unemployment benefit for the whole year, with no formality limit for employees in hotels that will be closed. Ninth point: The strengthening of internal tourism through a single social tourism programme - our rapporteur said so earlier - of EUR 750 million with incentives to move families, with the possibility, Minister, of using up to three million citizens, the activation of fifteen million overnight stays that would create seven million days. Ladies and gentlemen, workers have given themselves the best of providing high-level and prestige services to tourist services to the tens of millions of visitors coming every year to the country. And yet, the government cannot or does not want to hear their problems. Tomorrow there's mobilization. It is nothing to do with luck, no matter how much the Minister of Labour would like to look at them, golden things and falsify, unfortunately, situations for workers. Their support measures are being given by a drop-off, while no government until now cares whether the aids, which are late legislated, will reach the beneficiaries in time to be able to survive both themselves and their families. Minister, twelve specific questions await an answer today. Twelve questions! Firstly, what does the government respond to the exclusion from the government's measures of entire categories of workers who are long-term unemployed and experience the tragic work insecurity? Second question: What does the government answer to workers in unilateral suspension of a contract in 2020, which the state has not yet displayed - listen, has not shown the signals! - with the result that allowances are lost, like that of the sergeant? Third question: What does the government answer to seasonal workers who remain without the right to re-entry in April and who see with the blue the exceptional allowance for months of January and February? Fourth question: What does the government answer to businesses, professionals and their workers operating in the tourist regions and not join the CAR affected? Fifth question: What does the government answer to the complaint by the Pan-Hellenic Federation of Food - Tourism, that through the ADP - listen! - Are you asking the workers, who were on a unilateral job suspension, to return to the property owners who hired 40% of the rent? Sixth question: What does the government answer to the seasonal workers who have completed the fifty trademarks, but the businesses in which they have worked have typically lost seasonal character, according to the law - tourist enterprises, taxfree, etc. - because of the coronary and the overthrow of the data? Our parliamentary representative has said so too. Seventh question: What does the government answer for the hundreds of redundancies in hotels, Minister, but also for the refusal of employers to pay the licence and licence for the year 2020? Eighth question: What is the answer to the sectoral collective labour agreements which are in the air, such as those signed hotel officials, but has not yet been declared compulsory in general by the Ministry of Labour, but also foodism, Minister, which ended without being declared compulsory in general and pending its renewal? We will also listen to the parliamentary representative's response. Ninth question: What do you answer as a government to tourist bus drivers that negotiations with the employer side have not proceeded with the signing of a collective labour contract, which happened last year, so that workers carry out a hundred and forty days a strike, claiming self-evident? And you were deaf! The Tenth question: What does the government answer, which, on the basis of the documents requested by the Ministry of Tourism in order to grant the grant of subsidies to tourist buses in July and August 2020, is in practice excluded from it by about 40% of the tourist buses throughout the country and about 50% of the buses in the Dodecanese, since they have not managed to issue the electronic identification mark? Eleventh question: What does the government answer the proposal of the Change Movement for the immediate recognition of the coronary as an occupational disease involving the provision of a safety framework for workers? The twelfth and last question - and I hope it will be answered at least one - is this: what is the government's plan for the tourism sector that last year lost 78% of its income, and it is assumed that there will be a need for forms of support throughout the year 2021? Is there a Minister, a plan or your only plan known to us as the Change Movement -'seeing and doing'? Does the Government also agree that at least the grant of fixed costs and the 2021 programme are essential conditions for the survival of enterprises and workers? Does the Government agree that tourism is multifactorial and is it a matter of urgency to support tourism enterprises in particular, small and medium-sized enterprises, professionals, workers in them and sectors that are directly or indirectly dependent on tourism, food, focusing, drinks, shops, tourist agencies, suppliers, construction workers, tour operators, drivers? Answer and say if you agree. Does the Government agree that the sanitary safe resumption of tourist activity with specific health protocols and adequate information and training for professionals and workers is a major issue in the recovery of the Greek economy, the survival of thousands of businesses, the maintenance of jobs and the protection of the income of hundreds of thousands of people working in food and tourism? Finally, does the government agree that it should make use of European support funds such as the Recovery Fund, but also support policies to strengthen and subsidise work from national funds? Is the training and presentation of specific actions financed by European programmes and funds to develop skills and train people in tourism a priority, Mr Minister? If, Minister, the government agrees, we need a coordinated effort so that Greek tourism can stand up again, competitive and more resilient on the next day of the crisis with similar actions and not, of course, in words. The Change Movement, ladies and gentlemen, with its proposals, insists on addressing the problems with active policies and employment subsidies instead of unemployment subsidies and compensation which will be forced to pay retrospectively or to lose revenue from the Greek State. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u9	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. The floor is for Mrs Fotini (Phot) Genuines, President of the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u10	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic is still here and the National Health System is on its limit, as is the resistance of society and the economy. It is clear that the government has failed to manage it at all levels, despite what it is trying to convince us through propaganda. It failed before all to convince it of the effectiveness of its measures. With the constant interventions of government officials in the committee, it divided the experts and culminated in the confidence of the citizens. And now in the face of the hardship she relinquishs her responsibility to protect public health. What does he actually say? "Take the self-tests and take it off!" No controls and no measures to deal with conspiracy. Only trade of hope, but it does not give solutions. Under these circumstances, in such difficult circumstances, we have to discuss tourism. Our question is to prevent governmental errors and omissions that we have seen in this area last year. To take all these measures in good time, so that we do not lose the EUR 14 billion which is extremely valuable for our economy. Of course, we must not let what happened at our northern border and this summer, where there was absolutely no health check with the known tragic results in northern Greece. No one disputes that the pandemic's problems would bring down to the tourist stream and its revenues. But what have you, gentlemen of the government, done to deal with the difficult situation? Nothing specific and positive. You've been confined to communication. You made a number of relentless statements, such as those of the Prime Minister at the sunset in Santorini. Very good. But what was the result? You anticipated EUR 8 billion and only reached EUR 4 billion. Wrong. Would you like to remind you of them? Open unconditionally on land borders. Lack of agreements with third countries. Confused and delayed sanitary protocols. Discrimination of tourist areas in supposedly dangerous and non-hazardous areas, thus condemning many of them. And clandestineness continues this year. It is characteristic, very nicely referred to the CIVID FREE islands up to ten thousand inhabitants, but you leave out, and the impressions, if you like, all the flagships of tourism, all our great islands. What impressions do you make of them, comparing them to the CIVID FREE islands? What's the message you're sending to the tourist? Old boat transport, where one day you talked about compulsory rules and the very next you led to crowding, increasing the maximum number of passengers. On the other hand, we had a failed social tourism programme, and we had tabled a detailed proposal for you, so that tourism businesses could actually be strengthened, but also for the citizens who have been affected by the economic crisis to take a vacation. It is a proposal of EUR 730 million with three million beneficiaries, with fifteen million stays, with priorities for the unemployed, for suspended workers, for low pensioners, for beneficiaries of the social solidarity allowance. You just didn't hear us. And this year, it becomes even more urgent because, as I said before, the resistance of society is exhausted, the mental problems are huge and are looking for a way out. You have a responsibility and a duty to ensure that these people can escape safely this summer. Of course, we also have inadequate and delayed support measures for workers, as well as for industry business. We were telling you to reduce VAT to focus and tourism to make the product competitive. And what did you do? You reduced VAT on coffee and orangeade. We have proposed a labour subsidy equal to 40% of the wage of workers as an incentive for businesses to work, but also for workers. You preferred the allowances of EUR 534 and not all, through the completely failed 'ASSOCIATION - WORK' programme. So you failed in tourism too. Inadequacy and inefficiency. Ladies and gentlemen, I am particularly concerned about this year's debate and the delays throughout Europe in the vaccination programme. The government announced the opening of tourism on May 14th, and I ask: is there planning? Is there preparation? Are they ready and sent to all businesses the health protocols that will apply? Are there any estimates of the flow of tourism in our country for May and June? How many people are we waiting, for example, for these first two months? Have you taken steps to withstand the open business? Are you going to subsidise their fixed costs? Will you support their liquidity? We're waiting for answers if they are. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, we have never been in criticism. Our first concern is to keep society up and alive, especially in tourism, which is so important for both the country's GDP and employment. That is why I am once again tabling five specific proposals which are of direct application. First sentence: Immediate priority vaccination of workers in tourism in the next few years. Do the deed everywhere, so that they feel safe to be able to do their job without restrictions and, of course, to feel safe too. Second proposal: Application of the vaccination certificate for travel. We have proposed it since January: For those who have not been vaccinated, mandatory recent negative test. Also, agreements with third countries, as you say they have been with Israel. And I ask: What have you done with the United States of America? With Russia? With the United Kingdom? Are there any agreements? Is he in progress? Are you close to closing some deals? What's the horizon we have in front of us? Third proposal: Reduction of VAT to 6% for tourism and focus until the end of 2021 and, of course, suspension of the measure of increased VAT on the Aegean islands. Fourth proposal: Social tourism programme on the basis of the plan that we tabled last year as a Change Movement and to which I have already referred. Fifth proposal: Support for workers in tourism and the focus that they are currently in great insecurity. Their collective agreements are in the air, since the Ministry of Labour unacceptablely refuses their proclamation as compulsory. We demand that this matter be dealt with immediately. It is incomprehensible to applaud the immunity of certain employers. It is also at the expense of workers, but it also creates unfair competition between businesses. Take a position at last with specific decisions. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] Furthermore, for workers on a unilateral contract suspension in 2020, the state has not yet displayed the trademarks, resulting in allowances being lost, such as that of the operation, and workers being driven tomorrow, Tuesday in mobilisations. Seasonal workers remain without the right to re-entry in April and the exceptional January-February allowance has not been paid. We see hundreds of redundancies in hotels and also refuse employers to pay the licence and the 2020 licence. I now come briefly on the issue of dealing with tourism in your government plan for the Recovery Fund. There are proposals for more general projects, such as digitising all activities and promoting green energy that will have a positive impact on our tourism product. However, the anticipated direct interventions are fragmented and far below the importance of tourism for the economy and for employment. It is indicative that there is no provision for any major and at the same time emblematic and necessary work in each region. We should have at least one emblematic project on tourism in each region of the country, such as a large metropolitan conference centre in Athens, or, as the TEC has proposed since 2020, the conversion of Rhodes into a sustainable destination. We have spoken about the western Peloponnese and the Silicon Valley of sport and a number of other proposals that exist in the regions of the country. Including, of course, self-evident actions, such as Tatoi, regional airports, the protection of monuments of cultural heritage. With the government proposals, however, there is no answer to the two biggest questions raised about Greek tourism and its prospects. Firstly, how will our small tourist season be extended and how will we be able to attract visitors of a high income level? Points for which, in our alternative plan, we pay particular attention, proposing to provide tax and development incentives for networking and partnerships of small quality enterprises, as well as their promotion in the international tourism market and, of course, to strengthen programmes with the title we have given, "We work out, we stay Greece", in each region. Programmes with teleworkers, which of course require high-speed networks, transport and health infrastructures throughout the year. Even the planned funds for diversification of the tourist product either leave out some alternative forms of tourism, such as religious, cultural, holistic, or stay in arithmetics for rural tourism, when there is no design and when the necessary local pacts have not been made. And finally, we have two more questions. Are there any studies to protect from climate change of Divine, Delphi, Knossos, Philippi, Mystra and other monuments that are nominally mentioned in your plan, or are they all in the air? Secondly, is there any funds available to improve road safety in tourist areas? It's a crucial issue. Are there any studies or, at least, recording the real needs and priorities, or will there ultimately be a distribution, based on another type of reasonable and service? Ladies and gentlemen, with responsibility and consciousness of the importance for the economy and society, we are reintroducing our proposals for a more successful and substantial year for tourism. If the government follows our proposals, the great benefit will not ultimately be as a party, but tourism, employment and our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u11	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Poulas, Member of the Argolidas, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister. Today's debate is not only up-to-date, but urgently it should have been a month ago and not just twenty days before the country's opening to tourism. We are at a critical point and there are a number of questions that require answers. Tourism is the driving force of the Greek economy. This is a multifactorial economic sector which is interlinked with the financial management of the pandemic. There is no need for particular intelligence, to realise that ineffective management of the situation can characterise our country as'red' on the world pandemic map and long-term damage to our tourist product. Already, the situation is difficult. The European countries, which are our most tourist visitors, are hesitant to travel while countries, such as Germany and Great Britain, are promoting internal tourism as a measure of monitoring the spread. So the big questions are: Do we make them? Did we get our homework from last year's experience? Have we prepared enough? Have we been working on the health protocols for a year? Did we work with the productive operators of tourism? Did we incorporate the workers into the vaccination program? I am afraid that for all these questions, you get a level below the basis. First of all, what happened last year? We proceeded with the opening of tourism poorly - badly, haste and preoccupation. Retreat to the pressures of large travel agencies abroad and instead of mandatory molecular tests, you selected sample checks at the entrance gates. When the spread had now been established in Macedonia, you changed the health entry protocol, but the damage had already been done. They followed up with the closure and opening of the border stations and then EGE ran from one end to the other of northern Greece to gather the situation. What happened with the ships that tourists left for the islands, while there was no control over the application of the health protocols? Not everyone remembers the COVID hotel fiasco, for which hotel owners' interest was minimal? On the other hand, the fact that you do not promote internal tourism, which we have so persistently stressed, is indicative of your priorities. Today, one year later, and given that last year's opening of tourism contributed to the current outbreak of the virus, where are we in health? The ESS was not reinforced by recruitment, the health weight of the case management lifts the same exhausted, exhausted staff. The number of cases is consistently four digits. The tubes are over eight hundred and the number of those who lose their lives is also constant high. Last year they were not kept as the health measures should have been, nor the tracking was sufficient, resulting in many cases of tourists who were found positive were released to the holidays and dispersed the virus undisturbed. Health centres on our islands and in the continent have not been strengthened either in staff or in infrastructure so that they can raise the health burden of tourism. We do not forget the gaps in personnel covered by distractions and movements last year, leaving hospitals which did not have the present load dehumidated. This poor practice has given you an extension with a recent legislative provision. Vaccination flows slowly. Only 7.7% of the population has been vaccinated with both doses, which does not include the productive part that is co-administered, moving and circulating. The government expects everything from the European Commission, which has made serious mistakes in the process of supplying vaccines. You have announced horizontal vaccinations on the islands up to ten thousand inhabitants. But what have you done for the big islands? What have you planned for employees in tourism, hotels, catering, archaeological sites? How are you going to protect them all, just with a mask? They are expected to visit the archaeological sites of Argolida, as well as throughout the country too many tourists. Do you realize the cosmos that will be created, for example, in Mycenas and its Archaeological Museum? Tourism workers who have been unemployed for one year - some and more - are struggling to return to work. How will they be protected? The cost of compulsory submission of workers at rapid test or if you choose the new self-tests, who will pay them? Is it available free of charge or will the hotel owners pay it? Do you intend to prioritise your vaccination design as a minimum measure of protection? And finally, what health protocols will you receive for workers on cruise ships and passenger ships carrying thousands of tourists on our islands? In conclusion, the situation has not changed at all in relation to last year's experience. It is clear that the government has no plans for tourism or for how visitors will come under specific health protocols, nor for how they will move in the country, nor how we manage any imported cases, nor of course for the protection of workers. The health preparation in our islands and in the inland tourist regions is unexistent. The health protocols for hotel units have not yet been completed, and even today, twenty days before the opening of the country to tourism, discussions are continuing with the operators of tourism that have not yet come to an end. It is understandable that the government's rush to open up the tourist season. But it is hopeless, amateur and incomprehensible to have spent a year and to be at the same place as we were a year ago. You are concerned with your inactivity and the provocative transfer of responsibility to everyone except your government. Instead of systematic preparation and organization of the most golden sector of the Greek economy, you have placed your hopes on the green passport and on self-tests lately. So far, of course, no one knows clearly how it will function and what it will include, as each country can put its own restrictions on the protection of public health. But it is a good way to renounce your responsibilities for the lack of the government plan. Unfortunately, things are not as simple as that. Because we still do not know exactly whether the tourists vaccinated in this case have a chance - we do not know - to transmit the virus. So the green passport is not panacea as the media shows it to reassure citizens, and it is certainly not enough for the safe opening of the country to tourism and for the protection of public health. We are waiting for specific things: Strengthening primary health structures with staff and infrastructure, strengthening local staff to organise the country to carry out controls and tracking, strengthening hospitals with staff to withstand the pressures of imported incidents from tourist areas, involving local government in the process of controlling and complying with measures, particularly on islands, specific health protocols, priority vaccination of tourist workers, systematic checks at land borders and at all gates of entry. Ladies and gentlemen, the transition to the post-COVID era is not an easy case. Currently the situation in the country is more burdensome than last year. Unfortunately, your political priorities in this area too are evident. Tourism workers do not belong to them, as do workers in public hospitals who raise the health burden of the pandemic. We hope it does not pay the account of your ideas, incompetence and experimentation, the country, which is struggling to recover after a difficult decade. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u13	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos, Member of the Arcadias, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the pleasure of us in the field of centre, centre-right and PASOK is that the debate is not taking place in terms of 'yes' - 'no'. This is an easy counterpopulation and easy for both the government and the opposition. We open the focus while others don't open it. We open tourism, others don't open it. It's hard, but not to be transmitted to the world, because the media needs blood, they want hard controversy, they want to take risks and not suggestions. That is why, Minister, today is a different debate, which is about two different things: we, with the world, with the many. Tourism and catering employ one and a half million families, i.e. they are connected to them over a million people, two million citizens with tourism and focus. That is why we stand both against the inadequacies of the government and the risk that the counter-population and these small groups will be in trouble in the country. And I can explain: As long as it is in red, no tourists are going to come. We like it, we do not like it, and you know very well that if we continue to be in'red' the next time, tourism and any reservations there will be a great fall and the government and those who take the risk and the small groups who come toward the majority of the world who want to work. Vaccines do not go any further and cannot reach this point, and so I do not understand how we are going to get there and when we are going to get there, what the government's plan is, to get to 40% or 35%, which will create the first immunity wall. So here you are as Minister of Tourism, and so you also have a responsibility towards the collective effort made by the government and one topic. You must reply to us when this whole process will be completed. Secondly, I will not say much that my colleagues have said and will say in detail. I will only put three or four days' notices. Minister, we started with the COVID FREE islands. The President said so very well. I understand, you've explained it, and you've explained it's a sanitary matter. I'm telling you you're not a Minister of Tourism, but you're a Minister of Government. And we have now arrived and opened the process for up to ten thousand people. Up to twenty thousand when will it end? Never. I see it for July, August. Do you know what that means? Improveable damage to the large islands. The President told you earlier. We're telling you again. Pick it up. It is not just a question of the government because advertising for the COVID FREE islands is not just about you. He's making it, and every hotel he wants to sell, and he's willing to sell, and he's got a audience all over the world. So, like last time, we'll have two counts. Or, otherwise, accelerate vaccination. Secondly, the subject of 'vaccination and workers in tourism and focus'. I don't know when it's gonna start. What's the government's plan? On May 15, you open the tourism market. When will these people be vaccinated? Minister, I would suggest something that Luxembourg has done and you need to see. Luxembourg has made a voluntary platform - and because we have gone well on the platforms - out of the vaccines that were left, as some people did not go, and these vaccines were given per area to those who want them. I think it is a good opportunity to go to the vaccination of tourism and focus, if we want to open up safely, work people and have opportunities for them to work better. Thirdly, you're doing everything late, I'm afraid, without a program, and I think that in the end it won't work. You announced a very large 330 million programme for the focus - quite rightly - which you said will help the focus to open before it is opened. I see you ready to open the focus next week. Is that why you're giving the money to this program? This programme you said that it would be given earlier so that it could mobilise the powers and be able to function, because people have no money to open the focus. You as a government when do you think the program will be opened - the program has not even been opened - and when will the money get in? So there is one point here which has to do with essential issues. We can't tell you no about the program. Of course, 330 million is too much, but if you give it three or four months later, how will the programme be opened, Minister? When will the program open? As far as the land borders are concerned, the President has put it very nice. Look, last time one of the biggest problems was land borders. Today I wonder, since we have the green certificate, if you are ready, if you have found the world - why will big tails be created - if you have built the infrastructure so that the people who will come from the land borders can enter without delay in Greece. It's a very big problem, and I hope you have a solution. When we talk about tourism, we are always talking about maritime tourism, but we forget about mountainous tourism and our rapporteur, George Francis, said so. These people have lost two seasons and this process is completed. We have to deal with a different approach and a different programme for them. As far as third countries are concerned, you have gone to Russia. I read that you did well, too. But I did not know, Minister, when the Russians will open for us. To this! When will the Russians open up, with the rules that we have, and will send tourists, will tourists be allowed to come to Greece? I hope you're giving us good news today. In America, over 12 years of age has been vaccinated. What's your decision? I'm not talking about Australia. Australia has decided and closed the border. It's a bad decision, but can't we change it? With America? With China? The Chinese, Minister, will come after November and give us a chance of time. The Chinese last year, in 2019, strongly supported the center of Athens and Athens. They actually raised tourism - I think three points - by their visit to Athens, that is, they gave life to these shops, which are all closed today. What's your design? What are the procedures you've considered for the next time? We have some time, but we need to know. Minister, this may not concern you, but - unfortunately - tourism will not open in May and you know the reservations and everything. Entrepreneurs can't open, because as you can see, they're all going to open this year. There's no hotel that won't open this year. They'll open all the hotels. So you understand that completeness will be reduced too much. So the suspension of rents, support through insurance contributions - so that there can be and function - the loans - which our Parliamentary representative, Michael Katrinis, has talked about many times - are some issues that you must support. And I'm ending up - because I'm in the process and I have to keep my time - with something that Arkas said today, and it's your concern to everyone. Arkas wrote a very nice one today: "Open society" - says - "and liberal ideas have two enemies, the Left and the Right, the first slanders it and the second entrenched it, which is the same slander". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u15	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Kegeroglu, Member of the House, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, the Change Movement since the first day that the government has dealt with - and much before it - has been dealing with responsiblely and reliably, in order for the country to cope successfully with the great problem of pandemic and its effects on the economy and society. We control the government, but at the same time we put forward proposals. That has also been made clear today. Our question about tourism is obviously addressed to the government and not only to the Ministry of Tourism, because tourism as a broad sector of our economy requires the synergy of all ministries with the Ministry of Tourism in order to have an effective plan for its development, an effective plan to address the problems affecting it. And precisely because tourism is an area that does not only have large hotels, but also a number of small and medium-sized enterprises - hotel accommodation, accommodation, rooms for rent - businesses and professionals who move around tourism, workers, directly linked to the agri-food sector, is essentially the umbrella for a large part of our country's GDP. That is why it is necessary to synergy between all the ministries which we do not see and which is the first to which we incite you. There's no such synergy. I would mention, because I see that you will come and say 'good to us your proposals' - as Mr Mitsotakis said next time - 'but they are pillistic'. Listen, to make it clear: Realism and capitalism are relevant to the conditions and possibilities - particularly to policy - of those who are called upon to design and implement a policy. Realism in politics, depending on your potential, is the implementation of policies through an effective project - which does not exist - and with policies that are not inadequate. So, with your eyes, many things seem realistic. But for us it is a deficit. With your eyes many things we suggest to you are silking. However, it is absolutely realistic, because if there are any conditions - the economic conditions - you are comparing the economic conditions now with the economic conditions of 2010. No one disputes - and we are the first to say this - that the country has consumed a significant proportion of GDP - perhaps of the largest of the European Union - EUR 27 billion in 2020, EUR 30 billion now is what you have consumed. At the same time, however, what you have achieved is far less. In relation to the treatment of the recession, we have 32% more than the European Union's average in the recession. It doesn't explain. The second important thing is that we have an increase of EUR 14 billion in deposits. You gave us an explanation of how this happened in the midst of a crisis and how these statements are mainly from companies that received funding, subsidies from the banking system that they did not need to return as deposits? So the problem is planning and targeting, it's not a resource problem. Resources consumed, but they didn't catch that interest. And here we want to explain why this happened when the money was spent. And money isn't a gift. The people will pay for it as a whole. So there is no justification for inadequacies and gaps. Your colleagues have analysed and demonstrated why there are categories of workers who have not been supported at all, those who have been excluded and those who have been taken by the drop-hole or who are retrospectively here to give them them them. Is it possible - as has been said by the Vice-President of Parliament - to open up the focus and the aid to come after or with the opening up of asking them to pay accumulated obligations? And there is another example of tourist buses. For the period July - August, the subsidy has not even been paid for aid since September. I'll tell you what. These are examples of a lack of policies. Demolished support many times is not enough. And I come to the perception of the measures. Measures must be taken in line with reality, with science. I'll give you an example of the boats. Prohibited or allowed if you want the boats up to eight meters. But is it the boat's measures that transmit the coronary or the passengers? Instead of putting measures for the completeness and rules for passengers on board, you say 'no, the vessels up to eight meters do not transmit the coronary' or 'the vessels if they are in port can go for amateur fishing, but if they are out of port I do not allow you to put it on'. These are indicative examples. There are huge problems that have to do with coordination. The Greek people are dealing with all this. The most important thing, however, is that there are no categories, which have half a million workers, support measures. Workers who haven't filled the fifty trademarks this year - have to work and get a share in 2019, many people who have been able to make forty-nine cuts in the season that went through - have not even entered the unemployment benefit. Seasonal small enterprises whose SMRs are not considered to be affected, but are working exclusively in areas of tourism, have not been supported, as have the workers in them. Same with a number of businesses and professionals. That is why we ask you for the lack of measures, the lack of targeting, the gaps that exist, and above all because you did not evaluate last year and the mistakes are repeated. The non-assessment will create the same problems to a maximum extent, but they could have been avoided. In the first year there was the excuse of the unknown, and in any case we say in the first few weeks, in the first few months, etc. It's no longer unknown. We know how it moves and how it can be dealt with. That is why we are invoking you and want answers today for everything that we have put to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u17	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Mr Panas, Member of the Halkidikis, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u18	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the new tourist season is before the gates when the third wave of the pandemic is rapidly escalating in our country, while the National Health System is under suffocating pressure. Undoubtedly, the country's tourism is the last pillar of the Greek economy, contributing almost 25% to GDP and employment. Tourism is one of the branches that has retained in the multi-annual economic crisis and in the memoranda our economy, but also during the koroni pandemic. Already since the first wave of pandemic, this sector has been unprotected, while the sloppy forecasts of the evolution of the previous tourist season have been confirmed. Although we waited this year, given our past experience, the proper management of the safest start of tourism, we have seen beyond the dramatically reduced revenues and arrivals of tourists, collapses of airlines and generally a decline in tourist businesses. In Halkidiki in particular, from where I come from, I am receiving great skepticism in terms of the struggles of hotelists, businessmen and tourist workers, and even now that we are in the end of April there is no clear plan, a timetable, a regulation on the evolution and opening up of the tourist season. There is no framework on the part of the Greek Government for how to enter the country, in the light of the health protection of citizens, and as a result it has to make foreign travel agencies, social rules, actually imposed, extorting at the same time as cancellation of travel. There is a problem in particular throughout northern Greece, which is mainly based on road tourism. The rules with which tourists can move safely, both those who will come with tourist buses and individual travellers across the border, have not yet been laid down and the situation is fluid. Last year, because of the coronary pandemic, it was a year of great losses. Agents even note that the tourist interest has been lost by a large number of individual tourists, as well as through the tour operators. At the same time, it is noted that neighbours such as Turkey and Albania served a large number of visitors in 2020, without a negative sign in terms of service, but also in terms of keeping the health protocols. This year, the tourist agreement between Greece and Serbia was well signed - and rightly so - followed by the journey to Russia, from which we expect positive results. However, there are many questions about road tourism in northern Greece. What about citizens outside Serbia, so that they don't choose other tourist destinations and with what health protocols will they come? What is your schedule for introducing tourists from Serbia who will not hold a vaccination certificate? What about children who are young? Must they have a negative test? What will happen with the additional health personnel at the two main border stations of our country, Evia and Promahona, where images were played very badly last year in order of cars to wait for hours? What borders will tourists enter our country and what will be the fullness rate of tourist buses? They are questions which exist and must be answered now that they are still early. Here I must stress that there is a need for additional rapid tests, as well as for proper traceability of cases, particularly to tourists entering northern Greece as vaccination alone is not enough. At the very last moment, Minister, these issues must be answered so that there can be a common line on the obligations of hotel owners so that they do not ask for their own terms of service by confusing the industry. Apart from that, as our previous interlocutors have said, there is also the grim economic part. Most businesses in the tourism sector are currently exposed to bank lending with red loans of more than EUR 3 billion. There are still workers in tourism who have not been able to work this year or have not been able to obtain the required number of fifty marks needed to obtain the unemployment benefit. For these reasons, realising that this year will also be problematic, there must be further support for workers and businesses with specific protection measures. That's what we did. We have tabled a series of proposals from the very beginning of the health crisis so that our country can come out of this dead end. Minister, the country needs a national plan to support tourism and exit the crisis in a direct and substantial way. You are also fully aware that the long-term imposition of horizontal quarantine measures has not succeeded in restraining the path of the virus and therefore we need targeted footage for each county, as health data is worse than last year. In this context, the backbone of tourism is to be supported by enterprises and workers. In a second year, however, the tourist product must be updated, upgraded to meet the needs of modern reality. But now we are coming to a different battle. So, listen to our proposals, adopt them and emphasise something else, that this year with the health uncertainty that exists, there must be a greater target for domestic tourism at a more new and more generous look. Thank you very much. I hope that we will get the answers, convince us and have the best effect on our country's tourism.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr President. The Minister of Tourism, Mr Theocharis, will now speak on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u20	Thank you very much, Madam President. I am particularly pleased with Mr Constantinople's observation that he does not want and is not the purpose of going to white - black. Tourism is not a case for easy party controversy. It is a complex process and it is a process that we all need to find ways to support. After all, the negative tradition of tourism being a field of party controversy began last year, unfortunately. There was no field of party controversy either in 2011 or in 2010. It's something that's been safeguarded. Even when we had gatherings and arrived until we were dead, it was never tourism from any party to the conflict. Why? Because it wants great attention not to discredit the country when, for example, we turn to the right, to the left and say that the country is not safe and those who come to it must be careful. Because that is the message we are going through and if you think that the tour operators are not watching, the market players all that we are discussing here, I think we are all mistaken. We live in a time when everyone is heard from everywhere and all the things we say are recorded and recorded in substance. Now out of respect for the President of the Change Movement, even though some things will appear fragmented in relation to the flow of the speech I have drawn up, I would like to say a few words on the points he has put forward, which are obviously important. I do not understand why, first of all, all the self-tests consider them to be a problem. Our country is also taking the lead in this area. We are in a phase of pandemic where the virus is much more contagious, lasts more days and is therefore transmitted more quickly. That's the nature of the epidemic. We can't control these. So a lot of people who are asymptomatic are if you want the people who are transmitting the disease and creating the problem that Mr Constantinople has said again. The country is in'red' and as long as it is in'red' cannot come to tourism. Obviously, we all have to do everything we can, not take these risks at last, to help. And self - test is an essential tool. We are the first country to give them free of charge and give them free of charge so that everyone can learn and see if he is positive and, of course, limited to staying at home in isolation so that he does not pass on the disease. So such an important tool, which our country is once again in the lead, should not be judging, we should hardly support it. And that means, in practice, supporting the common national effort. Because it's a national effort. The government never said she defeated the coronary. The government makes a plan, which it submits to the health committee. He's going there by submitting designs, not to split. I have heard the word 'different' from the committee. How can he divide the committee? The committee has all scientists, with different experiences, so that it can come up with a result that is a common component. Evidently there are many opinions and decisions are also made. In the end, if you want, they vote. I know why I have experience. I've been there several times, and we'll talk about it all in relation to the tourism plans. It has been mentioned many times by Mrs Gennimata herself, but also by many colleagues from the Change Movement, the issue of the northern borders and the repatriations, the alleged repatriations that have taken place. They didn't change the protocols at the northern border. They haven't changed for tourism. Tourism had a very substantial design. If anything could be said, the Greeks who went, not for tourist reasons, but for other reasons, at first had no obligation to test. That was the changes. The land workers, who came to support the rural activities of northern Greece, had at first fewer conditions, and they "felted". The tourism protocols were the same as they were, because they were working. What is happening - and I really do need to stop underestimating how difficult a war we have to give - is that we have been following every day or at least twice, every other day of the week, Monday, Wednesday and Friday under the Prime Minister, all the health data, including these health data, and in particular the positiveness we have taken from the EVA system, depending on each entry gate - we have taken the decisions, that is, the specialists, seeing that at some point positiveness is increasing too much and we must stop or not stop or releasing the movements. This was a dynamic process and, of course, it was necessary to be able to keep healthly safe and in northern Greece, but of course all of Greece. There is therefore no question - to go to the next issue raised by Mrs Gennamas - of ruthless statements. The statements were not inconsistent. They were assembled, just because there was a plan and just because it worked on the plan. Okay, I understand - I don't understand, I say, for the sake of abrasion - that last year you wanted to have a party confrontation and say that the cases are coming up and there are problems. But now? The eighty-eighty cases of August that we had, with all the tourism, with the three million guests inside the country, was the health disaster? You now have knowledge to compare how the pandemic flows. You know that the second wave didn't come earlier in our country than it came to northern Europe. He came about a week later. It did not start in August the second wave, it started at the end of October, in the last two weeks. So the results are data. It is precisely because we had said and made a micro-party confrontation that we cannot continue with it all the time. This affects your credibility. If you want, do it. But the reality is here, in white black, on paper. Mrs. Gennamas spoke of predictions and referred to some of my statements to which I was landing the market. When I said that there is no way we could get over 50%, it was when the market was talking about 20% and 25% and there were estimates that we read in the press. I tried a little bit to put a brake on all this optimism of the press. And then they welcomed me with shock and from the Ministry of Tourism such publications. However, when you tabled your question on 19 November 2020, the question we are discussing, do you mention 3 billion revenues? Those were your common assessments of SYRIZA and the Change Movement? You've written it in the question. The final revenue for the year is 35% above what you said. How about if the Treasury said a alpha GDP and GDP was up to 35%? Would you say he appreciates it right? So your own and others have not been verified. Is it revenue that we should be happy about? Do we dance? Did we open champagne? No, of course not. All this money that has been lost is money that would go to businesses, to workers, to their children, to families that we hoped would live every year and better than they previously lived. But it is not the government's fault, it is the pandemic, it is the objective circumstances. And we are doing everything we can to deal with these objective conditions. I apologise again, it is a fragmentary one, but I think it is my duty to respond in particular to the issues raised by the President of the Change Movement. With regard to the CIVID islands, Mr Constantinople said that 'it is not just you, it is others'. We don't do it at all. Not at all. The operational planning of the Ministry of Health and the Army, which has the management responsibility for the logistics of the vaccines, obviously means that when you get to an island you can't go fifteen times, you go once and implement the vaccination of all. We say that the whole country is safe, there are no areas of COVID FREE and NON COVID FREE. And I call on the mayors not to fall into this trap. Because when you're advertised as COVID FREE, if you ever increase cases, it's becoming a bit of a case, as I read about Ankara articles, it's falling apart, it's not a long-term advertising strategy. So I hope you will agree with me, too. I hope to hear it, because I didn't hear it in all places, that Greece is safe. And tell him to listen to it and the whole world. I hope you say so. That's what we're saying. And she's safe, and because the quarantine hotels did. Heard we didn't find quarantine hotels, that there were problems. Mr Françidis said so, but also by other Members he repeated this. How far and far did the quarantine hotels not succeed? We had at every destination, where we wanted them all the quarantine hotels. We had two thousand guests together with their families, all of them together. Two thousand! And there is another reason why all this philosophical debate, the defamatory debate, about the failure of protection or supposed health deterioration due to tourism has no basis. Mrs Gennamas and the coastline, for example, have been mentioned, but you have said so. If, in other words, tourism took out all these cases, where are the tourists who would go to quarantine hotels because they had symptoms and had to be isolated or asked for help? Two thousand with their escorts. It's them. In relation to social tourism and the 730 million, when the whole programme of public investment, other than participation in European programmes, is 800 million to 1 billion, we all understand how impracticable and unrealistic this is. This is where I'm going to argue with my friend Vassilis Kegeroglou. Realism runs somewhere and in fact, it's not just in the eyes. It's not just that if we want something, that's what happens. That's called bulbism, not realism. Don't mess with those concepts. Don't keep talking about 730 million. In any case, I wish you sometime to rule and have a finance minister so that millions and billions of Sport Billy's bag that we were watching on TV when we were young. I will also say a few words about the proposals to get into a flow and close. A lot of issues have been raised and it is very pleasant to have this debate, because we must all - and I think it is a good opportunity - to bronze that we want tourism to be opened. Because that's one thing I didn't hear from you. We want to open tourism. We want it to be done with a health balance. We want it to be done safely. Now it's a very important matter. The issue of vaccination has been raised many times. Of course we have said from the first moment - and this is something that, and personally, I have recommended to the Prime Minister, I have spoken with the vaccination committee, I have spoken with the health committee - that vaccination is decided and carried out by tourist workers as a priority. It will, however, take place when the most vulnerable are vaccinated. That's for granted. Unless you propose that the remaining more vulnerable categories should not be vaccinated and that we move directly and directly on to tourism workers. The planning of the group planning our vaccines has also taken note of it since the first day - this is a promise I have made here from the Step forward of the House - after the most vulnerable people are in turn the tourist workers. Until that happens, - because it is a dynamic programming, they tell us that the vaccines will bring us less or more, or they may come before or after that, it is not planning under the control of the Ministry of Tourism - we have provided in the protocols, sometimes against them, and in what the market says, that they will often be done, most frequent tests to all the tourist workers, unless they have been vaccinated so that this process can end. It's a process that doesn't take more than three weeks. So don't think it's a process that's too long. It'll be quick and it'll be completed very soon. We proposed the vaccination certificates on 12 January by letter from the Prime Minister to the European Union. And you see that despite the initial reactions - and we had reactions from virtually all the countries and Germany and France and the United Kingdom, Belgium, the Netherlands, the Scandinavian countries were at the beginning dubious, but in any case quickly they came together - now this is being implemented and implemented with rapid, as far as European procedures are concerned. I think those of you who have nursed there or worked together, you can understand that this is not an exaggeration of what I'm saying to you. So I'm going to say a few more words and I'm going to finish what Mrs. Gennamas has put in. Support for workers is very important. Since the first moment we have built a whole grid of measures that have strengthened them. I shall submit the documents in particular. Here we have the very successful Minister of Labour, Mr Brutsi, with long-term experience and two terms, which designed a great deal of them. They are measures which in practice have demonstrated their usefulness, such as 'COMPANY WORK', the extension of unemployment benefits or a series of too many and substantial measures. We will continue to support the workers until tourism stands on its feet and, if that is what you want, the work of the Ministry of Tourism is more to create the plan, the conditions, the coordination that will stand on its feet. We can't support him in the penitentiary. As far as the Recovery Fund is concerned, we would obviously like more resources to go to them, but this money goes into strategic directions. There are in the horizontal measures of education, green interventions and digital interventions, a number of interventions aimed at and directed at tourism, other than other enterprises. So there are already amounts that will actually be directed at tourism. There is also a very specific cash plan for tourism more strategic, for mountain tourism, for marinas, for strategic interventions, for gastronomy, for matters that are important and will be of interest to us in the next period. In any case, we will be able to support it. I wish there were more money for tourism. However, this is mainly a European problem and not a Greek problem. As far as agreements with third countries are concerned, you see that we are making a very active effort to open up markets and give a clear picture to all countries. Know that the first and most essential is this. Our country is the first to set a specific target. In the ITB in Berlin we announced that on 14 May we open up tourism. That's not simple to do. We don't call the heart a date lightly. It's not simple to do it! This means that there was coordination, that means that a plan has been drawn up and we are now in the process of being implemented. You ask and ask again whether there is a plan on the day when the first steps in implementation begin, to which I shall refer now. I'm closing up with these pieces, and if I need more time, take him from my denology, Madam President. You're asking me about the United States of America. Before I tell you about the first steps we take on the road to opening, I will tell you that the biggest problem I have encountered both in Serbia and Romania and in Russia is the suspicion: 'Would you open us?', 'Is it sure'? Business here, internally, doesn't believe us. We break this with small steps of opening. As of today, with the CYD of border connections, we have the opportunity for the vaccinated American citizens to come to our country without having to stay in quarantine. These are the first small steps and we will do more next week on marine tourism issues - and all weeks - so that we can work with the teams they need in each field. Now, sooner, where there is still no tourists' flow, we need to resolve staffing issues or anything else we need and so on 14 May we need to be ready. The dates we say are dates that we know can be implemented, always looking at the health situation as well. If doctors put a veto at some point and say, "children, it can't go like this," obviously we should also back off. But we have put all the pillows, if you like, which they need, so that we can have a very strong degree of certainty. And the fact that we are taking this small step along the way to open up today, opening up land borders and both gates of entry from Bulgaria, Promahona and the Nymphraeus, with the opportunity to come vaccinated, is a sample that what we say and plan, we are already implementing them. So the debate on whether there is a plan has to be stopped because it is being implemented. And that's what we have to say. I will comment for two minutes on the 'civil plan' that you have presented to us. Thank you, because of this kind of dialogue we should have had to do. I will not say much about how great Europe must change. You conclude that at European level they must change a number of things. I cannot talk about how different Europe must be. I, too, would like on many points - the speed of vaccination, for example - to have Europe been much faster. Nor will I say much about support, because many of these have been done, rents, workers, unemployment benefits, etc. In any case, the grid of support has been implemented, it is very specific and even if there are minor disagreements, one will not argue that there is a substantial grid of support. However, in order to strengthen the tourist product that is ours, I think it is like reading what has been done, as if I read last year's account: Forging Greece's image as a safe destination. We've shaped it. Everyone believes that Greece is one of the most secure destinations. It's done and it's done. I hope you too will agree and not want this image to be ruined. Direct application of realistic and unified operational protocols. Operating protocols exist and apply. And this conversation about whether the protocols are known has to be stopped. The protocols exist and are valid. The corrections that are pointless, small, depending on what allows us now, with the new knowledge the doctors can do, are communicate throughout the market. They know them. They've been signed by us and they've been waiting for the signature from the Ministry of Health to come out to FEK. It is a typical issue, however, in the sense that they are now known and everyone can make their planning. In fact, they were very successful last year. Here I have to say a great thank you to the private sector, who did not think he could smuggle with protocols. The private sector did not play with anyone's health, and that should be recognised. It is another reason why our country's image as a safe destination has been consolidated. When he gets "Venizelos" the fifth safer airport prize in the world, when "AEGEAN" is the fourth safest airline in the world, this shows that our country did not play with protocols last year. There has been a strengthening of the health system. We didn't have a problem anywhere. We talked to every island. We did the Asset, what every island needs. Some islands wanted more reinforcement, some less. You said that as'safe' and 'non-safe'. No, they were in terms of aid. Some islands were strengthened more, medium or less. That's what I said. There are some things in relation to the long-term, the alternative forms. All right, that's obviously not from one moment to the next, to make it possible to strengthen gastronomic tourism within the crisis. I think you understand that some of the things you're saying are unrealistic. Nevertheless, we have completed and come up with a strategic plan for the gastronomics, moves for the thermal and a series of things that I do not need to mention much more. I will say a few words about last year's period and you will allow me to leave the rest of the time for implementation for my denunciation so that you others can speak. I see we've already exceeded time. Last year we achieved all our country's quality objectives, and we need to understand that. And we made protocols. And of course there were many problems of conspiracy. That is why we are opening up - as I have said - all the border stations. Until last week I was told, "But will the Nymphreus be opened?" The MPs of northern Greece, Thrace, came and asked. I said to them, "Of course, the Nymphreus will be opened. Why are you questioning it? After we told you so." Today it is being implemented. Everything is being implemented, one by one. The problems in the formulas were small issues. The opening was a complex project. We had security, as it turns out. He said Mr. Hectactylus, not one of New Democracy's executives, was the impact of tourism on the pandemic in the country. He mentioned the study, not me. Professor Hadjichristodou tells us that according to a study for Crete the "R" in September was 1.1% where Crete was filled with tourists and 2.1% throughout the rest of the country. So where we had a lot of tourism we weren't getting worse in the pandemic. The awards for our Ministry and the EOT, which are the result of a collective effort, contribute to international recognition, a recognition which, if true, is not explained why we took it. But it is recognition for the country, because these prizes are the image of the country abroad. We're not happy for the awards. They don't mean anything personally. With regard to international proposals, we have taken huge initiatives with the World Tourism Organisation. We are members of the World Tourism Crisis Committee. We did an extraordinary working group to share best practices, best practices in all European countries that is the largest region, because it is reaching the Caucasus - the World Tourism Organization. We shared best practices. Many of them were ours. As far as the protocols we made last year are concerned, we have been asked by the World Tourism Organization and it has also given them ideas from them - I hope they will - in other countries too. We worked and supported the cruise. We supported the people of the cruise, and that brings results this year. We didn't do it to win five trips or five to make ten. We did it because we have been building relationships of confidence for a long time for the country. Confidence relationships are not personal. And of course, with this huge grid, we have also supported the buses you are discussing. Naturally, the support of tourist buses had to be given after the necessary European approvals. As soon as these came, this process is being implemented at a rapid pace. All applications are already being submitted and we will have three payments to complete the process. One parentheses I want to do for the hotels in COVID. From COVID hotels, practically everything that has right papers has been paid. We don't have payment unfinisheds of our own. That is why, in one day with invitation, we found all hotels for the first nine airports that open as the first step of opening our borders. We found them in one day. And we're making an innovation. We pay a deposit in half a year for the rooms that we expect from stand by and so we will only have at the end the payout of the nights that have taken place and will thus solve any problems that have been encountered during the payment. I don't underestimate them or cover them up. So we have achieved all these things and we are sure that, with this success, we have succeeded in building these conditions for next year. Time has passed and I will only end with this in relation to the general health situation - the conclusion - and I will come to speak much more about the next day, after hearing your views. This is an article that was published yesterday in the "protagon.gr" by George Soldimopoulos. He is a man most associated with the Change Movement. I think he's still helping, and he's a very good investigator. It does not relate as much to New Democracy as to you and, if you like, there has been a partner, if I'm not mistaken, to Mr. Venizelos. In any case, he is a very neutral and reliable researcher. The title is "And Greece has done better than many Europeans in COVID-19". Here is a series of evidence showing how our country in both the second and third waves has done better than most European countries. That doesn't mean the government did better. The country did better. And he did better because a number of interventions have embraced them. The government's planning was implemented in practice by our Greek fellow citizens. Apparently there's fatigue. We're all tired. Almost a year and a half after the pandemic's beginning we can't get out of our homes, we have so many restrictions. It's obviously hard. I shall put this article before you, because I think it has too many interesting information for you to take it into account. Our country and the markers of death, because I hear a debate about this, has done better than other countries. We're here, we're starting to implement. We are not planning, but we are implementing, and you are still wondering if there is a plan. That is where we are today. I have said how this plan exists and how it is being implemented. I will repeat them in my dentext, so that there is no doubt that this has not been said here during the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u21	Thank you very much, Minister. Parliament's representatives now have the floor. Mr Katrinis, Member of the Elijah Movement of Change, will be the first to speak. Mr. Catarini, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u22	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, I think we should re-establish ourselves in this Chamber. Eventually you are not Harry Theocharis, but you are Harry Potter not of Greek tourism, but of global tourism, because you have presented a picture of magic in this Chamber that everything has been solved. You said, I kept it, that 'we achieved all the objectives', that there was a plan. You talked about credibility. In fact, as an indiscriminate argument of this plan of success, credibility, achievement of the goals, you have also presented to us the article of a well-known journalist. I hope it will be quite convincing when you meet with the representatives of the tourism business, a sector that has been affected - I think - as much as any of the pandemics, and with the invoking of the article to convince them. And since you spoke of credibility, I should like to start with that, Minister. You give us credibility because, in our question on 19 November, we are talking about revenues of 3 billion, while the actual figure is 4 billion. Of course, I remind you that last year you spoke about 8 billion, but I will leave that. I would like to tell you that at the same time as we asked the current question, and we were talking about 3 billion, which was 4, the government officially in the draft budget of 2021, was talking about revenue from this year's tourism in 60% of 2019, for 11 billion. I say that at the same time as you were giving us that we were wrong, the government in the preliminary draft budget was talking about revenues of 11 billion in 2021. The other day, Mr Stavros said that we would go to 8 billion. The National Bank ten days ago said about 7.7 billion. Tell us today how much money you expect from tourism in 2021 and how reliable are you when the 11 billion will finally end up - may we deny - to 7 billion or less? Because you're talking about credibility, Minister. You certainly understood from today's presence that the content of the question could really be a starting point for the creation of a genuine plan to support workers and tourism businesses, but also for the safe opening of a country that should be a brand of a top safe tourist destination. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] It could be an essential framework for dialogue on the upgrading of tourism education, which is the comparative advantage for the future, as tourism is changing rapidly. But you said that it was all about pandemic, but unfortunately it turns out that you have no plan. I will speak specifically about that. Remember what? The flawless memory of Santorini last year, the 'THOMAS COOK' case - said George Francis - where you think that the suspensions solved the problem, while in other countries like Portugal there was a specific credit line of 150 million in the companies that were affected? Remember, Minister, the Prime Minister's visit to the Ministry of Tourism during the first days of his duties - and I put it in the Minutes - to mark the special interest shown by the government? [[At this point, the Member, Mr Michael Katrinis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You were talking about a ten-year plan that would be ready in six months, in July 2019, before a pandemic, and in fact you didn't even have a plan for the next ten days. Remember the new meeting of the political leadership of the Ministry of Tourism with the Prime Minister, again before a pandemic - I present it in the Minutes - in January 2020, which were set up and recorded in a communication on the objectives of government policy for 2020? [[At this point, the Member, Mr Michael Katrinis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Who were they? I say this to finally see if it is all about pandemic or if you do not have a stingy plan for developing tourism in the country. You were talking about a regulatory framework, about short-term leases for tourist development. Nothing's happened at all. You were talking about strengthening the national framework for the overall upgrading and modernisation of tourist education. You want me to tell you what happened to that? You've been building four tour schools for twenty months to see if they're going to work. Your former Undersecretary, Mr. Consolas, presented a bill to upgrade higher school tourist professions, which so far has been ignored, we do not know where it exists. In fact, on 30 December - I put it in the Minutes - a joint ministerial decision on the immediate implementation of the modernisation of a programme of higher education schools is published and, beware, the Minister of Education obviously did not understand what he signs and two months later - I am presenting in the Minutes - a new FEK where you are moving the application of the modernization of tourism education. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Michael Katrinis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We are at the end of April and you have not made it clear to us whether you will implement the decision, whether you will implement the upgrading of tourist education and, of course, whether you will bring a bill to the House. I am saying this because you are already committed to the European Union by means of EUR 420,000 technical assistance. So you have to apologize there, too, Minister. Now, of course, you're all saying it's the pandemic. The overall assessment of your attitude in the midst of a pandemic is that even you traded hope and the measures you announced were not sufficient and unfortunately the opening did not work. We insist that there was no sanitary framework for how to enter. These rules were imposed by the large travel agencies, and in fact the 'TUI' sent the ballot the measures by threatening to cancel all the journeys and the government, quite simply, succumbed to extortion. That is the reality, Minister. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We are talking about opening up tourism, and at the moment we do not know what is going on with businesses, and what is the real situation of businesses in tourism in terms of creditworthiness? My colleagues have also referred to this. It says the government: we gave TEIX 1.1 billion and the Tourism Guarantee Fund. I ask: What are these businesses that took them, what are the features, when we know that only 4% of the total of the companies had access to this bank borrowing? You will give working capital - it has been said before - to tourist businesses. When, on which criteria and what operations will they take? Will they take all the hotels? Will travel agencies, bus owners and travel organisers be taken? There is a note from the Federation of Greek Associations of Tourism and Travel Offices very detailed and, I think, very useful. Will the money end up with those who have taken both from TEPIX and from the Guarantee Fund and the large fillet of the repayable advance and will they get because of the volume and number of employees and the large part of the money you're going to give from 340 to 350 million, Minister? In the tourism loans, one out of three loans in 2019 was non-performing, as was mentioned by colleagues. In the last report by Mr Stournara, ten days ago, it is one in four loans that are not served. I submit the relevant tables. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Michael Katrinis, presents for the minutes the tables mentioned above, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Don't tell me you think the image of business in tourism has improved? Obviously, a large part of non-performing loans from the tourist sector were transferred to the services and it does not seem. So the figure of 3 billion is misleading. For example, I give you the loans in 'PQH', ask the hoteliers and professionals in the Dodecanese to tell you the suffocating times and the suffocating conditions that are set to pay. Yesterday, he spoke of the great dynamics of the trend towards the integration of hotel units into large international chains. Interpretation: International groups are attempting aggressive acquisitions of Greek businesses. If we combine this with the provision of services that in the next five years we will have two hundred and fifty thousand real estate auctions in the country, you know what the climate is. We have proposed a special package of repayable advance payments for both focusing and tourism with 70% support and, of course, a hundred and twenty instalments for tax debts and funds with 30% haircuts. As far as the Recovery Fund is concerned, because you mentioned, Minister, unfortunately, the sum of 260 million for tourism without any provision for upgrading small and medium-sized accommodations, is indeed filled with pessimism. You cannot delay your tourist education, which is unjustified and has nothing to do with the pandemic, to put it as the axis of the Recovery Fund to cover your weakness. For workers in tourism, Giorgos Mulkiotis mentioned twelve questions, for which we did not receive any answer. But it is emblematic for us, for the Change Movement, that at the moment a collective labour contract has not been signed for workers in tourism. I am saying this and I am looking at Mr Brutsi, who has nursed in this position of the Minister of Labour. Is it possible, in fact, that the collective labour agreement for workers in tourism has not been signed at the moment and that we are saying that there is no problem, that everything is fine, that we are putting well? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, and thank you very much for your tolerance. As far as the opening up of the market is concerned, on 14 May, Mr Minister, we wish to have a good opening-up of tourism, as you did last year in Kos. We will then celebrate Vassilis Kegeroglou's birthday. That's for sure. I hope we will celebrate the opening of tourism together on the same day. I hope so! Of course, I do not know how tourism can be opened on 14 May, when the Minister of Development comes out and says: 'We do not know whether the focus will be opened'. Mr. Constantinople told you before. When will you give the money, to give a breath of liquidity to both focus and tourism, so that they can open up the first difficult period, which you too know is that because of the situation and the low rate of vaccination, not in our country, but in countries that are tourist destinations for Greece, such as Germany, this is becoming even more difficult? For vaccination in the smaller islands, I think you should see the strategy, especially at the most important destinations such as Corfu, Crete, Rhodes and Kos, which really are missing you in this anguish to advertise the CIVID FREE islands up to ten thousand people. For operating protocols, you insist that the framework is clear. I would like to tell you that people of tourism really do not embrace this and you should probably give more emphasis to the next period. It was also mentioned by Andreas Pula that, as far as health structures are concerned, it is certainly not about the government as a whole - the necessary steps have not been taken to support and strengthen them so that they really are in the awareness of tourists worldwide that Greece, even on its smallest island, is a safe health destination. Of course, the health certificate is a good measure, but we must understand the truth and see it all in and out of this Chamber, because there is the impression that those who enter the country will either have vaccination certificates or have negative tests, that there will be complete security. But tell the truth. Say that others will come to whom a sample check will simply be carried out. The issue is very serious, because you know that right now the data is worse than the relevant period last year. And I say this because you are not responding to any criticism and our well-meaning proposals that are made through a thorough discussion with the people of tourism. And when we say 'people of tourism', we do not only mean the big businessmen of tourism, we are talking about the workers in tourism. They are eight hundred thousand directly and indirectly involved with tourism and focus on workers. So when you talk about opening up safely and when you resign from us that everything we say is undermining national effort, I think, Minister, firstly, that you do a brave self-criticism, and you yourself if you have done everything right since last year, or you have made too many mistakes that have cost tourism and the national economy. And, of course, the argument that our proposals are pillistic, because we are making sources of money, I would like to tell you that your agony to pay early the IMF loan of 3.3 billion, I do not know whether it has benefited the country and the citizens or whether it has added so much to the country's budget and credit profile, but your choices are clear - and I am now ending, Mr President - and now they show that, firstly, there is no plan and now that we are talking, so that we really do not go to a second lost year for tourism and, secondly, that you have not only achieved all the objectives, but now I fear that you have lost all credibility in, but also outside the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u23	Thank you. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Brutsi, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, the government welcomes the timely question from the Change Movement on the very important issue of tourism. You know very well, the whole House, all sides of Parliament, that tourism is something of particular importance to our country, not only because it employs about eight hundred and thousands of workers as a whole, but because it affects our country's economy and GDP as a whole, the Gross National Product, very importantly. To restore the reality, however, to speak with specific elements, let us see what the sizes of tourism are and how they affect the country's GDP. The balance of services of the Bank of Greece is what we measure through the expenditure of non-residents during their stay in the country, the impact on the country's GDP, that is, on the tourism side. In 2019, the arrivals were thirty-three thousand million, the contribution to the country's GDP of 18.2 billion euros, while these travel receipts of 18.2 billion euros affected by 9.7% of the country's GDP. At the same time, in 2020, arrivals due to the pandemic decreased to 7.4 million, the contribution to the country's GDP due to the travel contributions EUR 4.3 billion, the impact on the country's GDP of 2.6%. The forecasts for 2021 amount to about, according to figures recorded by economic operators, but also to the government's financial staff, to 50% of 2019. I now come to the headlines of the timely question of the Change Movement, which I consider to be unfair to itself, because in such a critical, important question to the Minister of Tourism, Mr Theocharis, at least the positions of his members, but also of Mrs Gennimata's own, should be more serious and more limited to what they say and with more responsibility. You criticised us because the recession increased to 8.2%. When the forecast was for more than 10%, it eventually dropped for 2020 to 8.2%, when just before I mentioned how much it affects tourism the gross national product of the country in a pandemic period, in an uncharted environment, not only for Greece, but also for the whole world. Observation 2, you have criticised - and I do not understand what you mean at the end - that we opened tourism last year. Should we or shouldn't we open him? Half of you say 'yes', the other half 'no' and you're criticizing. At the end of the day, we have to make criticism of everything. What did you want, gentlemen of the Change Movement? Shall we open or not open tourism last year? The money we received last year from tourism from this brave opening, which we did, in the way we did it, was EUR 4.3 billion. And indeed, the most extreme thing is that you criticised the Prime Minister himself, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, for his emblematic presence to open up tourism at a time of the global crisis through the pandemic on the island of Santorini, where he sent a message to the entire world, that Greece is a safe and come to Greece to make tourism. And this presence of Prime Minister, government officials at that time, from the most flagship island of our country, Santorini, had fruits, had a result of EUR 4.3 billion. Should we be throwing them at sea, or should we close and not do what we did last year? So the government has a record. It is documented through its actions, its operation, its planning for tourism, because it has proved in practice, as the Minister said, that we are interested in tourism as a priority, because it affects the country's GDP, because it affects public revenues, because there are more than eight hundred thousand workers involved. So we have a record and we also have a justification, on which we say: yes, we have moved in the right direction. We don't claim the perfect ones. Woe and woe to say we made it perfect. In an unpapered environment that no one has ever encountered, who could speak of perfections? But in this environment, the government has moved on the right path. And tourism opened up and moved properly and 4,3 billion euros received to last year's cowardly opening up of tourism in the way it was done. I would remind you that throughout the previous period of 2020, we have taken unique measures, measures which have been recognised abroad primarily by global economists in recording and unemployment, which is the lowest performance with Italy in terms of increasing it to the rest of Europe. In other words, we have succeeded in maintaining jobs as a country with the measures that we have taken, but also with regard to health protection and vaccination, we are pioneers in Europe, without claiming the perfect. In particular, do you question or doubt that the measures we took last year for workers, measures which we supported seasonal workers in tourism, with or without the right to re-entry, were measures that did not pay back? Is the suspension of employment contracts, which we made in 2020 and which continue in 2021, or was it not a proper measure to support workers? Is the extension of unemployment benefits for two months through OAS or has it not been an appropriate measure? Are the measures to support to tours and tourist guides were measures taken by this government to protect workers? Is the measures to support workers of special categories in tourism - travel agents, an extension of regular unemployment subsidy, which I mentioned before - or was it not in the right direction? I would remind you - why should we not forget - that all this was done by the Ministry of Labour thanks to the valuable tool, the innovative, called 'ERGANI'. Because without the "ERGANI", which we built in 2013 in our country, we could not have done any of what we are proud to say today that we did, to support the Greek worker and the Greek businesses, to have done. In combination with all previous ones, the Government has suspended corporate tax and insurance obligations, subsidising employers' insurance contributions to hotels in 12 months of operation, dealing with matters of direct liquidity through financial instruments such as the repayable advance. In short, we have created a very strong network of protection for workers and businesses as a whole and for tourism businesses. Did the social tourism programme, which, from a hundred thousand to forty thousand beneficiaries, went to the three hundred thousand last year, tripling its budget from EUR 10 million to EUR 30 million, not something very important? Or is the 400 million provided by the Ministry of Finance in the Recovery and Resilience Fund not important, which will have a positive impact on tourism in the coming years in our country? Or is it not a significant measure of 330 million for which you are critical? We announced them, yes, they will be carried out in the next few months, 330 million in support of the focus. Are you afraid that the government has announced them and will not give them? Have you seen such inconsistency so far? At this time of 2020 what we have announced has been done up to the last euro with absolute consistency. It has been attributed either to businesses or to workers. That's the reality. But we do have to agree on two things, that tourism affects the level of employment and business and GDP of the country, and this impact and the impact of tourism on GDP is not evenly distributed across Greece. There are areas of the country where their GDP is overwhelmingly affected by the tourism sector, such as the area where I have the honour and to be and to be elected, the Cyclades Prefecture, but also the Dodecanese Prefecture, the South Aegean Region, where 90% of their GDP is affected by tourism. So you understand, we all understand how important tourism affects everyday life and how much we are struggling to achieve this year. You heard the Minister refer to the date of 14 May, Mr Katrin, on a specific date. We're not going to the dolls or clipboards. Unfortunately, the proposal that you tabled was not irresponsible, unfortunately and irresponsible. I listened with care to tens of billions to share Mrs. Gennamas with this step. Tens of billions, unspeakable of course. The proposal by Mrs Gennamas and the Change Movement as a whole was a proposal that she gave billions to everyone, to businesses, to workers. But he did not accurately say how much they cost, as he had to do with a cost paper and where he would find it. Because it is very easy to go up to the Step and criticize all scientists, irresponsibly and then not say how to find them, because the country's financial possibilities are specific. However, the government has demonstrated that it has so far exceeded EUR 36 billion in support of workers and businesses. Unprecedented numbers! Are you questioning them? Didn't the government do what it could in the context of the country's budgetary tolerances? He did it and will continue to do it in the next period. For us tourism is a priority. We have proved this in practice during the previous period. I would ask, as a recommendation, because it is something very sensitive and that will affect our country in the summer and next time period, questions, debates on tourism are taking place with great enthusiasm and attention. Because the debates in this House are public, and what we say about the insecurity of our country is certainly reaching abroad. Greece is a safe country, Greece is a country that has taken the best sanitary measures, Greece is the country that is making the vaccinations very fast, supporting tourist businesses and will do everything possible to open up tourism an open hug for the whole world, to safely bring foreign tourists to Greece and to make their holidays beautifully, qualitatively and safely. I believe that all sides of the House share that view. I don't think anyone believes otherwise. I am obliged, because there has been particular criticism of the issue of vaccination, in the four minutes that I still have some information on the vaccination of the islands - Mr Katrin, because you have criticised - as the Deputy Minister of Health sent it to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u25	You don't have four minutes, you've been through your time long.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u26	Yes, Mr President, thank you for the reminder. I'm watching Mr. Katrin and the time you've had before. For the islands, therefore, the government has done all it can to ensure that the vaccinations are carried out. In particular, my information was sent by Mr Kontozamanis, the Deputy Minister for Health, to the House today: In twenty small islands, among them Therasia, Agathonisi, Thymana, the Arkians, the Antipaxians, Marathi, Kastelorizo, has been fully vaccinated in twenty small islands. In progress and completion of the next week is vaccination on islands as follows: In eight islands, including Antikythera, Pserimos, Nissyros, Agios Efstratios, the second vaccination - as the first has been completed - is completed on 19 April 2021, in a few days. On six islands, including Folegandros, Kimolos, Anafis, Sikinos, Donusa, Ammouliani, while the first vaccination has been completed, the second vaccination is completed on May 3, 2021, in a few days from today. On four islands, in Elafonissos, in Koufonissi, in Skolonousa, in Heraklion, the first vaccination has taken place and the second vaccination is completed on May 10, 2021. On nineteen islands such as Patmos, Ithaca, Samothrace, Sifnos, Kes, Paxes, Ios, Hydra, Amorgos, Kythnos, Serifos, Astypalia, Antiparos, Agistri, Kassos, the vaccination for residents of up to sixty years has been completed and the vaccination of all residents will be completed on May 10, 2021. In three islands, in Poros, in Spetses and in Kythera, the vaccination for residents of up to sixty years and up to 24 May will be completed in all the inhabitants of these islands. And on eight islands, in Andros, in Tinos, in Ikaria, in Lero, in Karpathos, in Skiathos, in Skopelos and in Milos, the universal vaccination procedures have already begun and will be completed by May 31, 2021. What does that show, ladies and gentlemen? That the government doesn't go without a compass, has a compass, both in vaccination and in tourism. We are going with steady, oriented steps, because we want to shield our island citizens, starting from the small islands in a programme, which I mentioned just before in Parliament how we will take a step forward, so that tourism for this year is much better than last year, is a tourism that will bring money to our country and ensure that tourists who will come to Greece as well as the inhabitants of the islands that will welcome them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u27	Thank you. As you have seen, there is a time for the parliamentary representatives to be able to speak. The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA Mr. Notopoulou is next. Here, Mrs. Notopoulou, you have the floor for six minutes with tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u28	Minister, today I join my voice with colleagues, honourable Members, because the countdown on the opening up of tourism has begun, but the industry is heading blindly with your own responsibility. The timer for opening on May 14th may be running already, but you didn't reveal any plan for restarting tourism and the tourist landscape remains more blurred than ever. The worst is that this is at the expense of tens of thousands of businesses and hundreds of thousands of workers, who have been sentenced to total impoverishment for about a year or so. You've turned them around and your back is incomprehensibly incomprehensible. Before I continue, Mr Minister, I should like to introduce you again to parliamentary procedures. Legislative work is also a task, but parliamentary control is also a task. You have an intolerance in the last period to the questions put to you by the Opposition. You also know that we, SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance, have tabled a timely question regarding the relaunching of tourism for two months. We don't have any news if you answer it. You will tell me 'good-bye late than never'. The question of the December Change Movement, you answer it today, so ours to open tourism, I assume, Merry Christmas, you will tell us that you have opened tourism! I am afraid that this Christmas, which you will answer to us, will not deny, at least then, that we will live up to Mr Georgiadis' 'We have made a mistake' because so far we have nothing but a repetition of the same mistakes as last year. Even last year's catastrophic management didn't make you mind-minded and really prepared for this year. Everything's in the air. Try an opening in a blank. Where are the protocols? If they exist, why aren't they publicized? Where is the vaccination of the workers? Where is the support of the ERC? If something has emerged from the pandemic, it is that tourism and health are inextricably interwoven. In order not to comment on the fact that you are talking about citizens and two-speed, internal and external tourists, the fact that tourists cannot leave 1 euro in local economies, since they are closed, the fact that you are experimenting until you decide what to do or the fact that you are invited to come to the ghost cities. But I urge you, Minister, to put yourself in Mr Georgiadis' comment that tourism can be opened without the focus being opened. Are you Minister of Tourism or Minister only ‘all inclusive’? We're here with sincere anxiety. Do not rush to judge and condemn the Opposition because it brings you all the time before your responsibilities. It's better to take care of them. Last year I took the initiative and asked to inform us and to agree between all the political areas in the face of such a major crisis. The tragedy had not yet become unsubstantiated. A year later, however, we are in the same position. You're walking again without any plan. And the questions are two where we have arrived: What is support and what is the start-up plan? If we talk about workers, you have condemned them to live a year or so to around 534 euros, when all their obligations are running. Can he live a family? Poor aid, hunger aid and some - many, thousands - don't get that either. They're doomed to impoverishment. Entrepreneurs see life's labor falling apart. They are crushed under pressure of burdens accumulated by debts. You embed tour guides, tourist escorts, tour operators, tour operators, tour bus workers, taxi workers, catering professionals, workers in all seasonal shops. And what do you answer businessmen? 'Don't worry, we'll support you with coupons'. We have insisted from the outset on unpaid aid, as do most countries in the European Union. We have pointed out that you need to use the new state aid framework, the tool that the European Union gives you, in order to make a targeted programme for all the fixed costs of an undertaking exclusively for tourism-food operations. You don't care. The other day, Alexis Tsipras presented SYRIZA's plan - a Progressive Alliance for the Relaunch of the economy, measures specifically for the private debt of the pandemic, to enhance liquidity, 5.7 billion. Do you find a lot of things in front of the downhill that the Greek economy has taken? Also, Minister, we have proposed a brave domestic tourism programme in good time. You don't care. You have adopted a moderate, inadequate, which you have not managed and implemented. A drop in the ocean was last year. At least this year will you implement a brave domestic tourism programme? We didn't hear a word. Let's go to the new candy invented by your Government: Recovery Fund. Where is tourism in the Recovery Fund? Mr. Breton had chosen that 20% of the funds would go to tourism. Let's see what happens with the restart of the trips. You said that you have a plan, that you are implementing it, but you are not telling us. At the same time we see reports that the quarantine, for example, will not apply to seven days. Can you finally let us know from this step where the wonderful operating protocols are, how will we welcome the first tourists? You told us that you were asked by the World Tourism Organization when two days before your hotel owners asked for them and didn't have them last year. Are we gonna find out this last night? Let the leaks be good too! However, the management of destinations is not only about accommodation. Let's go to the quarantine hotels. Last year's fiasco took place this year. Well, you said and solved the question, because you only gave a one-day period to submit the prepayment file. But the country's health situation is not the same as last year. Responsibility is fully burdened with your own government by tragic manipulations, obsessed with ideologies. A crime we live in this country, and that also has serious consequences for tourist season in terms of detentions, in psychology, in terms of travel traffic, when everyone says they see us starting at the end of June. May I mention what the President of the Hotel, Mr. Tasos, says? It says 'If the country doesn't become green, no tourists will come'. And by commenting on your move about COVID FREE islands, this goes beyond him. I would like your comment and that's why. Mr Minister, to conclude, I will say that the safe re-launching of travel and tourism requires a structured package, common protocols, updates of tracking systems, reliable evolution of the EVA system, which, from the result, seemed dangerous, extensive use of diagnostic tests on tourist destinations and prescribing the tests. I am pleased to hear Mrs Gennimatas, like the members of the Change Movement, accept and accept many of the proposals, which have been made by the whole world of tourism. From you, however, I have not heard a word about the health enhancement of tourist destinations, the recruitment of doctors, intensive treatment units, for early diagnosis, for effective care, to prevent dispersal. Here we are dealing with a very serious government, an extremely careless government that has been thrown into festivals and baptisms. When the European Union comes and introduces Digital Green Pass, you have your translators translate it "Digital Green Vaccination Certificate", let and convince or mock the world that the Prime Minister's proposal was based, while the rate of vaccination remains too low around the world. So we had from the outset intent on a negative test. The European Union is coming in and following this proposal to move with negative test or immunity and you are insisting on misleading. Is that a mature attitude? Completely different things, which you are trying to assimilate in the translation. If you heard us last year, we'd have saved the early closure of the season. Mr. Staguras speaks of 3 billion lost a month, with every month lockdown. So, whatever brought us the improper opening of tourism, we lose it every month. Questions, then, which you did not answer: How was the health system strengthened in tourist destinations, particularly in the islands? What is the vaccination programme for workers in tourism? What is the preparation for the land borders? Are we going to be a riot again, especially in northern Greece? Why do you insist on the failed EVA algorithm, which you are struggling to document scientifically with one day's responses? What about buses? What rules will apply to tourist buses? What about archaeological sites? What about the tours? What about the cruise? What about yachting? For the rose experiment, will you tell us something? Since yesterday, Minister, there are things going on. Read about cases. Are there? Aren't there? You understand that the experiments pose a very serious risk of defamation. And most importantly: today all you have said - and you have called it innovation - is that you will open up tourism with self-tests. This at least gives rise to anger, but it's become a crook. Specific protocols are needed, applied, efficient, reliable, health infrastructure, tracing. I am afraid, listening to your speech, which looks creepy to your last position, that you still do not have a sense of responsibility towards Greek tourism. And the worst part is that no list of Pessa can hide this situation abroad. Neither the tour operators nor anyone else are expected to be informed of the statements of the Opposition. From you they're waiting to be informed, and they don't know what packages to sell. From you they expect answers about how businessmen will survive and you have none. Minister, tourism is primarily a matter of trust. Unfortunately, no one can trust you anymore from the result. Therefore, we invite you, even now, to make sure that the billions have sinned by no man of wisdom, that you put order in your chaos before May 14. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u29	Thank you. We are now continuing with the parliamentary representative of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis. Here, Mr Katsotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Gentlemen, regardless of the parties that each time formed the governments of New Democracy, PASOK, SYRIZA, they all served the investment choices of capital, the major tour operators, groups in air transport, shipowners and other business groups. They have all legislated friendly, spatial and environmental regulations. They all incorporated into the Public Investment Programme, as did regional and municipal administrations, technical projects, infrastructure costs which served excessive tourist development. Land, beaches, warm money, as well as tax exemptions, were granted. They all tolerated the implementation of sixteen forms of employment, creating working gala conditions in the tourism sector. The huge profits of large hotel and tourist businesses came out of the wild exploitation of workers. At a time of great growth, we have had a reduction in wages, a abolition of labour rights, 16 forms of employment, as we have said, effectively abolition of collective agreements. In times of crisis, we are talking about the absolute impoverishment of workers and self-employed. Since last March tourism from heavy industry has been transformed into a heavy patient who brakes the economy itself. Workers experience the nightmare of poverty and unemployment. And the small professionals are destroying and plundering debts. The storage of limitation measures in Greek trade, the focus, the repeated lockdowns, the use of repression from fines to unnecessarily police violence are the choices of the government that rightly provoke rage. If the government had implemented the KKE proposals, hospital doctors, labor unions, other mass organisations, not only we would not have the thousands dead, almost ten thousand, not only would the schools, universities not be closed, but they would already have opened up several activities that remain closed, such as trade, focus and other sectors. He's asking the Minister to say if Greece is safe. Is he safe with the health system on its limits? Is he safe with ten thousand dead, seventy to a hundred dead a day, thousands of cases every day? Is it safe with tubed out of the ICU that most people die, with great shortages of doctors and nurses? Is it safe with the situation in the public transport, in the workplaces where the dispersion travels, too big? Your priority, apparently, is the functioning of the capitalist economy and not the health of the people. This is confirmed by the government's refusal to take all the appropriate measures proposed by doctors, health workers, workers and the JRC, because the situation would indeed be different. Thousands of employees in tourism - food, in tourist offices, bus drivers, tourist attendants, tour guides and other workers in tourism-related activities have remained apart from inadequate government support measures. The large majority is experiencing absolute poverty, as a year now and upwards are living at the best with 9 euros a day. The European Union's SURE programmes, as reported by the former Minister of Labour of the Government of New Democracy, were specialised by the Government in the suspension programme and the 'Consumer - WORK' programme to support and strengthen the overthrow of labour and insurance rights, to relieve employers of even the payment of the wage for work, as well as insurance contributions. The JRC has been on the side of tourism, food and transport workers all year round. With ten questions, five topicals, dozens of reports by unions, as well as amendments calling for support for workers in tourism - foodism, regardless of their employment relationship. We demanded that no one stay without decent income, full insurance cover, substantial health protection, substantial support for the unemployed, signature and implementation of collective agreements. Government support measures are also inadequate for small-professional tourism and focus. They cannot meet obligations and current needs, but they only move professionals' deadlocks the next day, one day that in the current conditions of uncertainty and crisis of the economy in the country and internationally, it will literally evolve into Golgotha. This is why the JRC tabled a proposal for a law for brave deletion of professionals' debts, a reduction in their taxes and a return to tax, a grant of individual insurance contributions, a compensation of EUR 1,000 for every month of restrictive measures, a tax-free limit of EUR 12,000 income, a abolition of the trade fee, etc. These are measures which can provide substantial relief, and that is why professionals, with their struggle, need to press for their implementation. You claim to the question, gentlemen, of the Change Movement, that the government did not require a single framework for travel from the European Union. The framework is defined by airlines, shipowners, tour operators, major tourism business groups. This framework was in place last year, and this year it was adapted. The opening of tourism from May 14th, as is apparent from the demands of the major business groups of tourism and transport, will be carried out with health protocols, very behind last year, which led to thousands of cases in the second wave of the pandemic. The vaccination certificate presented by the government protects the vaccinated person rather than the others. The self-tests take off individual responsibility, transfer the government's responsibility for health protection to the people. You say the New Democracy Government has no plan. Tourism is on the autopilot. The Government of New Democracy has a plan. It's the plan of the big business groups. That is what you served as a government, as did SYRIZA. You refer to the red loans made by companies. Our people pay the debt you have all created for the needs of capital, which has reached nearly EUR 400 billion. The loans for tourist development are paid by the people multiplely. With regard to education, which you refer to in your question, the degradation of diplomas, the decoupling of professional rights were options made by requirements of business groups. Young people and young people start with dreams of a school. They spend their parents learning several foreign languages and end up working endless hours. They're literally exterminated with pitiful rewards, with five-tenths. Not to mention the misuse of children who practice. Here the responsibilities of all of you are enormous. We want to remind ourselves that the PASOK governments have come out of the heavy and unhealthy professions, many specialities of tourism - foodism, such as dressings, waiters, cooks and others. Your work is to increase the age limits by ten years, especially for women who leave, because they are of course shattered by hard work. The Government is preparing the new crime against workers, the abolition of fixed daily time, the eighth hour, the legalisation of the ten-hour job, the increase in overtime in a hundred and fifty hours, the abolition of the strike, the support for the strike by criminalising the blockade, the electronic vote on the strike and the election of administrative councils and representatives of unions, which is crucial to the employer's intervention for the result, the privatisation of supplementary insurance at the moment. The government with fierce lies attempts to bend the wrath and indignation. It presents the bill as a four-day job. What does it mean for the human body, its tolerances and its health, sixty-seven hours a week and that for a period of at least six months during the year, as the Minister invoked, to tourism? What does it mean for personal and family life, obligations, rest needs, education, entertainment? What does it mean for health damage, occupational diseases, permanent harm to their health? Tourism workers have had bitter experience of the abolition of fixed daily time, from ten hours, twelve hours, double shifts, from break-off hours, morning, noon, night. They have experience of unpaid work. During the record and gains of visitors were received late and on several occasions the following year. In order to obtain the permission and the allowance, like gifts, they must make a series of mobilizations. They know that in order for the urban state and its various mechanisms to take a stand for the self-evidently in favour of them, such as the payment of entrepreneurs, they must be mobilised for days. Food workers - tourism, with constant mobilisations, demanded fair demands for measures to support their health, life and rights. Tomorrow, April 20, with gatherings in all cities, they claim "All at work - No one out", with all health and safety measures, with all rights, without 1 euro reduction, without a violation of the fixed daily working time. They continue coordination with all other branches and organize the strike proto-magnetic gathering on May 6, which coincides with the government's pursuit of abolishing the eighth hour, for which we had the Chicago uprising, and we honour the dead of our class a hundred and thirty-five years ago and the implementation in our country a hundred years ago. The JRC invites workers, regardless of what they believe, in massive, universal participation, to receive a response to capital and governments and any other mechanism supporting overturns. Because nothing is permanent with the power of capital, even the conquest of eight hours is abolished, we call on the workers to make their own case the JRC's proposal for exemption from this system, which is all it gives is wars, crises, misery. To claim their own authority, the life they deserve for health, education, security, welfare, vacation, universal right. The factories, boats, land, tourist infrastructures to produce to satisfy their own needs, the needs of the people, and not the profits of a handful of capitalists. It is a one-way struggle for a permanent and final solution to the problems of the working class and the people. On this road, we are calling in conspiracy with the JRC.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u31	Thank you. We are now continuing with the Greek Parliamentary Representative, Mr. Vasiliardos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u32	Thank you very much, Mr President. Regarding what the Minister said, the cases in the summer of 2020 began in August in the islands, reasonably in healthy and possibly asymptomatic, while they were transferred to the rest of Greece after the return of tourists from the islands. There are many references to the issue in the media about the return of Paros infected, for example. Poros had been closed since the beginning of August, but other tourist islands, such as Paros and Mykonos, had remained open. That's for restoring the truth. However, we note with our colleague on the issue of health safety and the IMPs. When we don't have enough ICUs, obviously because of government failure, how do we host tourists? Isn't this an irresponsible attitude? Ladies and gentlemen, judging by today's question, and not only, the Change Movement is distinguished from sensitivity to tourism, while as PASOK made a significant contribution to its development, since along with New Democracy there are the groups that have ruled over the last decades during the de-industrialisation, overcompensation, bankruptcy and the conversion of our country into a debt colony. In addition, PASOK officials believe that tourism is the country's heavy industry. In our view foolish, because it is services and even cheap in the case of our country, which disproportionately burden the infrastructure in relation to the revenue they offer us. PASOK is also awarded the very opposite view of Andreas Papandreou, according to which, unfortunately, we have become 'the wardrobes of Europe' and today subsidized wardrobes. On the subject now. The Change Movement accuses the Government of not having and having no plan to deal with the negative effects of the pandemic on tourism, as well as that it did not draw up the 10-year programme announced in 2019 and that had to be completed before the pandemic. In the present case, it is absolutely right, but it does not surprise anyone, since the government has no plan for anything, applying the well-known "seeing and doing", with continuous extensions and with foreigners, unscheduled locks that destroy both the economy and health. The result of this policy is the launching of twin deficits and the country's twin debts, since only in 2020 the budget deficit, the damage such as one company, exceeded 20 billion added to the debt, while the private sector has red debts uniquely in world history. On the other hand, in order to be objective, there has never been a plan for tourism and it has been problematic long before the pandemic, as we can see, among other things, from the length of stay and from the average expenditure per tourist that has been steadily reduced in recent years, with a small, subtle improvement in 2019, from EUR 746 in general to EUR 564, as we will present in the Minutes along with everything we say. By the way, we are always against the monoculture of tourism, how much less because it is an economically dangerous pre-cyclical sector, proposing to change our failed economic and wrong tourist model. This does not mean, of course, that we underestimate tourism, but that it should be of quality, with greater revenue, even if arrivals were to be reduced, such as in the case of Portugal and other countries. It should also support other sectors of our economy, such as our domestic food industry and our primary sector, with the corresponding macroeconomic policy. After all, we have a detailed plan for tourism in our programme of four hundred sixty pages that we have posted on our website, linking it to the rest of our economy. Continuing on the other side of the question of the Change Movement, it was indeed a failure to open tourism in 2020, with 7.4 million arrivals compared with 31.3 million in 2019 and 4.28 billion revenues. Only the Minister of Tourism claimed that the opening bet was won with his statements, which confirms that he unfortunately has no contact with the Greek reality. But why does the Change Movement say that the way the opening took place led to unfairly incriminating tourism for the dispersion of the coronary? The fact that the increase in cases in the autumn is due to the tourist season even to the seventh assessment of the troika, while the Prime Minister in the debate in Parliament on 8-9-2020 admitted that the government took a reasoned risk. The risk, of course, was not reasoned at all, considering that the tests, which had been promised, were not carried out, to tourists coming from burdened countries, to the wrong software used, as well as to the statements made by Mrs Bakoyannis, according to which there was no plan, there were insufficient cost tests and that there was pressure from TUI via the German Government. Is it true, Minister, did the 'TUI' pay what he owed the hotel owners? The above were confirmed by ‘BUILD’, in which the company threatened to cancel the packages if there were tests and 30-hour quarantine. The failure was also confirmed by the Minister of Development, who had a burden on the replacement of the losses of the economy, while the government did not expect the pandemic to spread in the summer. So we have reached the catastrophic ‘locks’ that cost EUR 750 million a week - I repeat, EUR 750 million a week, a huge amount! - much more than our tourist revenue. We refer to all of this, fearing that the same mistakes will be repeated in 2021, noting that the "TUI" already sells packages in Mayorca on the sole condition that a negative test and the Germans move freely when the Spanish are limited in their homes. Is this really planned in Greece? Greece also stops the quarantine for travellers from thirty countries today, and despite the test, there are already cases in tourists when the pandemic will continue for some time yet - possibly for years - according to the World Health Organisation. However, we do not agree with the view of the Change Movement, according to which tourism is on the autopilot - it has been heard by other colleagues before - since, in fact, it decides on all the troika, along with tourist agents. Furthermore, tourism is indeed a great employer in our country since three hundred thousand people are directly employed, together with food, on the basis of the packages of Mr Brutsi's 'SON-WORK' programme, which, in the end, do not know where they end up, judging by Mr Brutsis's complaint. SETE, of course, in 2019, was referring to nine hundred six thousand employees in tourism and to 20.8% of its direct and indirect participation in the country's GDP, which in 2020 proved to be excessive on the basis of the multiplier. We agree, however, that TEIX loans were granted to a few, as well as the red debts mentioned and estimated in hotels at EUR 3.6 billion with figures of 2019, with some four hundred units already in debt, but this is a more general problem of the economy and is not solved by interest subsidy, which in fact supports banks. On the other hand, how can one finance a failed model against primary production and industry, let alone when the country comes to another bankruptcy, since the public debt, according to the IMF, reached 213,1% of GDP in 2020? As far as the Minister of Finance's forecast for tourism revenues of EUR 8 billion in 2021, i.e. 45% of 2019's revenues, is concerned, we consider it very difficult to achieve this. To close with the issue of the unemployed who have not completed the fifty marks and who are left without income, we consider their support absolutely necessary, but we do not agree with proposals which are not accurately quantified, and it is absolutely right to refer to the continuing deterioration of PMs. But there is a need for a serious debate on this subject, with concrete proposals. A question about the end of pure curiosity: What really does the Change Movement suggest about expenditure that is constantly being proposed and which is increasing deficits and debts even more? Continue with new lending, as long as they give us money, obviously in exchange, even if they concern the sale of public property, the auctioning of private property and the loss of our further national sovereignty? Don't you mind that they're going to be called to pay our kids in multiples? Indifferent to the next generations, passing on to these huge problems created by our generation? Is it really an honest attitude like this? Is she in charge? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u33	We conclude with George Logiadis, the Parliamentary Representative of Mera25. Here, Mr. Loyadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u34	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will begin, Minister, with the word 'hello, hello'. The top, absolute greeting comes from the word 'health'. A matter as topical as ever. I will also speak to you today as a member of Hercules, Mera25, who also comes from tourism and as an economist I have studied in Germany. I have worked and lived there for many years. In fact, the Ministry of Tourism is a super-Ministry, because it is Greece for our visitors. I would like to mention that the collective agreement on working for hotels with workers has recently been signed in Heraklion. But that's not the point. The question is to be applied by everyone and there is no unfair competition that destroys both workers and businesses. In order to do so, however, we need control mechanisms which are unfortunately not sufficient. They've been downgraded, and you've devalued them with the memoirs. The overtaxation of both individuals and businesses must also be abolished and public health and education upgraded, because at the end of the day, every worker is asking what is left of me. As I said, however, having signed three Memorandum Governments on these huge primary surpluses, I fear that you cannot do this. There is a dive in German summer reservations. It's a very big market. It has been heard before that we are minus 76% compared with last year. And the hopes of the Germans are, of course, directed towards the autumn. We must prepare and show our country's potential for an extension of the period, for months October, November, December and why not January. Last year in Crete specifically, they would stay open and in November and December if the "TUI" did not come and told them that they would pay them next year in May. We therefore want to extend the tourist season and upgrade it. In the past few days, some Länder in Germany are starting to implement pilot projects to open up tourism and focus on outdoors. But Berlin's political reactions do not particularly favour the project. You know, the German Government is responding to the vaccination passport because very few will have been vaccinated by summer and this means no equality between vaccinated and unvaccinated. The French newspaper "LIBERATION" says in a recent article that German tourists who recently came to Crete brought the coronary into their suitcases. This is in the context of the experiment organized by the Greek Government. And people from local society say the arrival of tourists only increases stress. In the village, tourists who arrived with the "contaminated" plane do not respect the restrictive measures and do not wear a mask. And what kind of experiment is this with Rhodes, where every tourist for one week has air transport, stay at the hotel with a full diet and pays only EUR 399? This tourist on the other hand is not even allowed to go to the beach, nor much more outside of the hotel. This model, this experiment, we consider it disastrous for our tourism and half our tourism, because the visitor in Greece comes to live outside the hotel. We don't want tourists in the hotels all the time. And what we expect is that we also have tourists outside the hotel. As MERA25, we think we should put an end to self-tests. The government has to build mass test centres. And we are recently seeing this complexion, the sloppiness and the self-tests fiasco that was to be delivered today by SWISS MED for the private and public sector workers. They didn't surrender. Rapid tests must be carried out by a health professional, but the government named these self-tests. Last year, unfortunately, we had problems with the English tourists who came to Greece, Crete. The foreign press reported that our country is a world champion for the incoming cases from Britain, and then the London Government stopped bringing people to Greece, to come tourists to Greece from England. And the President of the Panhellenic Hotel Federation, as he has heard before, said that if it does not become a green country no tourist will come. While advertising about CIVID FREE islands is wrong. Let us say that within the country we have COVID FREE, as you said, Minister, that is not right. There is also the fear of business opening in the summer, as we have done so far with shops. Don't go on because, as Mr. Kavathas, the president of GSEW, said, it's like giving oxygen to a patient. You open it to him, you close it to him, and the patient dies at the end of the day. It takes forward measures for both businesses and workers, but also the subsidisation of rapid test for hotels as their amount reaches 10,000 euros for a hotel with a hundred employees that must be tested twice a week. I would like here to mention that at the moment most of these reservations are reservations made from 2019 to 2020. They have been suspended with vouchers, and we have to pay them back, that is, the hotel sector. A huge problem for tourism, for the hotel sector, is the lack of liquidity and essentially the lack of a banking system. You know, Minister, that a tour operator makes an agreement with a hotel with a very large discount on hotel prices to give him liquidity before the start of the tourist season. This is not going to exist this year and there will be a real lack of liquidity from businesses to start. The yearly booking discounts, as we say, will not just be given because they do not exist. We see another country, Israel, that a month ago it started opening up its economy. It has been vaccinated over 80% of its population. One month before he started opening his economy, and now, after the opening of the economy, it is time, they say, "to go back to tourism in a careful and thoughtful way, step-by-step". We have to watch this, see it and we too, or we will have victims. You can check, Minister, and it is our question, how much has the tourist sector invested in the paper clap and the adwares of 'GOGLE'? This is an indication to see what advertising each hotel is doing abroad. I am afraid that the paper chips are at a very low level, if not zero. MARAZON, FACEBOOK, NETFLIX has proposed that these colossians, "GOOGLE", "AMAZON", "FACEBOOK", "NETFLIX" should tax 4% of their turnover and this revenue should support the Greek economy, which your Government has not accepted. Another issue, as mentioned earlier, and the OECD highlights it, is essentially education in tourism. The OECD states that despite high unemployment before the pandemic, job shortages prevent companies from creating jobs and increasing productivity as employers often cannot find workers with the necessary skills. There is indeed a lack of people with these skills and, above all, with skills that develop online sales to be dismantled by mass tourism. The previous Minister of Tourism had recently come to Crete. He visited the tourist profession schools which, unfortunately, you have devalued, degraded, and so you are actually pushing students to go to private schools. With regard to the problem I mentioned earlier with the banks: banks have a trapped liquidity of EUR 41 billion. You're telling me the testimonies have increased. Of course, the deposits may have increased, but why have the deposits increased and how? The businessman has received repayable advances and loans, and TPIX, and all of this, however, because they are loans, because he does not know exactly what will happen in the future, he keeps them, and he should normally have thrown them into the economy for everyone's benefit. Another issue is the suspension of payments, redemption of post-dated cheques and businesses to their suppliers and tourist offices, tour operators, which have still to be remunerated in tourism since 2019. It's a vicious circle in everything. So, when a businessman gets a repayable advance or loans via TBIX - very nice! - to pay his post-paid checks and not this economy to be deprived of this liquidity. You say for holidays in Greece without compulsory quarantine and that they will be able to come to Greece via nine airports and be able to make all their holidays without quarantine. I will start from nine airports, Athens, Thessaloniki, Heraklion, Chania, Rhodes, Kos, Mykonos, Santorini, Corfu. I ask, Mr Minister, the other airports, Chios, Kos, Samos, Zakynthos, Alexandroupolis, Mytilini, Skiathos, Kefalonia, Kavala, Kalamata, Karpathos, Kythera, Milos, Naxos, Ios, Skyros, Sitia, what will happen? Are these two airports different and two Greeces different? Doctors are still paying attention. Their recommendations are based on scientific data, vaccines are not 100% effective, and they will take months to create immunity after the second dose of the vaccine. It is also not yet known whether the coronary is transmitted even after immunisation, while the immunity of a herd is still a long-term objective. That's what scientists say.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u35	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u36	I shall conclude, Mr President. A good idea for travelers can be the study of how many free IFs exist in the country. Here, however, we see that in our country we have reached the limit and that there is a ten-day wait for a bed in the ICU. Let's go to the rehab of mass tourism that is a golden opportunity: We as a PART25 highlight the negative molecular test seventy-two hours before his arrival, rapid test for all at the entrance. The practices of infectious words to emerge in public rather than to stay secretly. We, Mera25, stress the deletion of the debts created during the pandemic, because we fear that after the economy opens up too many red loans, unemployment will be launched as will poverty and impoverishment. You know, they become a coronary party because people don't unfortunately trust the state. End of sms, because it is mockery and authoritarianism. Attention tour operators are under collapse, because good tourism, but people also get paid. I also want to say about the Recovery Fund that it is good, but we are recently seeing that in Germany there is a delay in the constitutional court, and that is very dangerous. In conclusion, I would like to wish: Good resurrection, in health! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u37	Thank you. We're continuing with Mr. Francis. Immediately after that the Minister, Mr. Katrinis, Mr. Biagis, and finally the Minister again, will speak and the procedure will be completed. Mr. Francis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr President. Honestly, listening to the Minister and the Parliamentary Representative of New Democracy, we are probably living in another country. Everything is going well at all levels, whether we are dealing with the health sector, since we are not concerned, as the eighty-five people who are inside the ICU do not concern us with the hundreds who are intersected outside the ICU, do not concern us with the medical and nursing staff of the National Health System, who have not been based on this titanic struggle that it gives, we are not ultimately concerned with the organized structures that must exist on all tourist destinations in Greece and have not been made. So we're going well, in your opinion, in the health sector. The same goes for the economy. It's all going well! The major crises that have been faced with the companies that have been closed have been addressed, with the unemployed who have increased and, once we have opened tourism now, will be opened up by the businesses, which open up, because those who do not open will unfortunately be many, and lastly in tourism, everything is well organised and we will go very well. In fact, Mr Brutsis also asked the question: what do we want from the Change Movement? Should tourism be opened or not open? Last year, like, did he have to open up or shouldn't he? Of course, tourism must be opened. Of course, however, we must organise ourselves well, so that we can be effective, in order to address the problems faced by the tourism sector. And, of course, in order to do this, we must each of us and above all you who are the governing party to see what shortcomings there were, what mistakes you made and what to correct them. After all, the timely question we asked in November, we made it just before tourism opened, to discuss, to draw a positive conclusion, to strengthen, with all our forces, the tourism sector, so that mistakes and shortcomings of the previous period, namely 2020, can be addressed. That was the point, but you, it seems, because you think everything is going well, you're five months late and we've come 20 days before the tourism opening to discuss things that you're listening to you all is fine. For us - and this is the concept of the debate - a realistic goal for 2021 is and must be to make this year the year of survival, maintenance and founding of solid bases for the future of Greek tourism, which means that support for society, which has a great deal to do with tourism, employs tourism and the economy. That was the purpose of the timely question that we have asked and unfortunately other people are listening. Now, coming here, I have also heard from Mr Theocharis in relation to the self-tests and the gates of entry, but also Mr Brutsis, who has said about the COVID FREE islands. Starting from the latter, I would like to say that I am very pleased that this proposal for COVID FREE islands under six thousand inhabitants was at the teleconferencing conference held by the Change Movement with 'fedHATTA' at the beginning of March. You have heard and adopted it. Welcome home. But you also mentioned islands like COVID FREE, such as Antypalea and Halki, but the Civil Protection came out and said they were in trouble, he put them in red. Also, with regard to self-tests, allow me, Mr Theocharis, as a doctor, to tell you that self-tests are a means, it does not solve the problem. We're making another suggestion. Because a negative test that can be later positive needs five to seven days, we said on Monday that the test should be done by the EGE and in the medium term to do the self-tests to cover this week, so that cases where it was negative could be covered and dealt with. As regards the gates of entry, first of all, all the gates of Greece must be opened, it must not be like Promahona in northern Greece and Krystalpigi. So the Evians, who is the largest entrance in the country, who spend one million and seven hundred thousands of dulls a year and millions of tourists, have five nurses who test from morning to 11 nights. How will you meet these needs? And you know what else? When the tourists get in there with the coaches, and if there's one, two, three with positive test, they don't isolate them. He's following the coach, he's going to his destination and these people are supposed to be isolated there. That means that we are not well-organised. So listen. And we don't make party criticism, Alas. We are making a planned, programmed, responsible opposition and we will continue to speak. Now, two things - and I close - in relation to tourism education. We need a new and updated education framework so that the human potential in tourism is given a new quality. In fact, as a tourist country we could be, Mr. Theocharis, an educational polo of attraction, have a pilot school of tourism with students from all over the world. The Prime Minister himself, moreover, had announced twice as far the upgrading of tourism education in July 2009 and January 2020. Instead, however, the deterioration of the PMUs of the above schools of tourist education continues. Students enter these schools with a full-scale examination. The degrees of RIS are not equal to those awarded by the SNEs of the country. ADTE students cannot continue their studies at a postgraduate level while they are deprived of academic rights enjoyed by other students. Finally, with regard to the recovery plan you presented to us, tourism seems to benefit indirectly from many themes of the project, namely green transition, digital transformation, employment, skills, investment, etc., which have a positive impact on tourism. However, this approach is purely indirect and fragmentary and lacks philosophy and design. It does not answer the critical questions, namely where we want to take Greek tourism and how we will prolong our tourist season. And I think that's what you need to take into account.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u39	Thank you. Mr. Biagis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] Minister, the Change Movement has chosen at this time to bring tourism into discussion, not by accident, nor by the fact that you do not work in this direction. We are the first, if you wish, who say that for tourism as a whole needs a national strategy, do not need a recurring strategy, and we need a government and the practices, if you like, and the policies of a government come to follow the previous one's efforts. So let me be as sensitive to you - I will not say more - and tell you that I come from a purely tourist island, Corfu. So I'm telling you, the agony is over in Corfu for a simple reason. You know very well that island regions as a reference point for their economy have tourism for the most part. They experience situations that they had not even experienced during the memorial period. With this data and the overall picture, take into account something: the overall picture of the pandemic in Greece this year in relation to the deaths and permeated ones we have, always in relation to the other states here in our neighbourhood, which have to do with tourism. I'm talking about Italy, I'm talking about Spain, I'm talking about Portugal. Imagine and come to compare all this with last year's picture and the image that our country had with the dead and the enclosed in relation to the states concerned. For its own part, this comparison - I think it should stress us - at least must stress us - and at least put us in the activation process as much as we can. I'm closing this part. That's why, if you want, and Timing and the time when we chose to bring it and the anxiety you see in each of us. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I think, Minister, that you should answer the issues that at least I put you in my prototype. Are you Minister of Tourism of Greece? And if so, are you the Minister of Tourism of Greece, what is your policy in relation to the major tourist offices? What will you answer 'TUI' and what is your policy in relation to the policy of 'TUI', which has not even disbursed last year's debts? What are the answers that he doesn't give advances for this year? Are you going to intervene as a Ministry of Tourism or will you not intervene? What are you going to tell the businessmen and hotel owners of Corfu? One element is that. The second is: What do you respond to their agony "We need skilled staff right now"? Models, if you like, modernise every day. The pandemic forces us to modernise in the health field. With regard to the School of Tourist Professions in Corfu, which has lived for many years and which currently has a teacher and no administrative official and closes in June, what are you going to answer these children? What are you going to answer the entrepreneurs who are waiting to get qualified staff from these schools? These are the questions, and also, in what way within a year, Minister, - and I shall end - you have come to strengthen the health structures in the islands and in the border regions. One year was not enough to bring those amendments so that there would be those incentives to serve the health centres and hospitals of the province and the islands? The Change Movement brought you an amendment in September that passed, which was motivated financially, in order for the doctors to come and serve the hospitals and health centers. You didn't support it. In December of this year, we brought you another amendment as a parliamentary group in our agony, which was motivated by scientific, service-based. You didn't support it again. And what's the result? Currently Corfu and every Corfu island, each island of Greece, is about to face the pandemic, this violent thing that we live every day in our lives, without dedicated health structures. Is that a disaster? Tell me. That is what we want you to answer. They expect the islanders to hear your answers. This is what the people of tourism expect you to answer. Leave the general, vague places. Here, tomorrow, tourism opens. People are fighting. What are we telling him? How do we support our businessmen? Not to mention the workers who, even today, make joint ministerial decisions to support them, when in ten days of these people we will ask to support the tourism product, when you have not really come with an amendment to solve the problem of the seasonality of some workers in tourism, when you have solved it with 'THOMAS COOK' this with an amendment. And I'm talking, as you know very well, about tax-free workers, I'm talking about workers in the tourist offices. These could have solved everything for a long time. And these people you left without an unemployment fund. And for these people you make a few sums today to ask them tomorrow to be at the raids. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u41	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor and the procedure is completed with your speech. Minister, because I went out for two minutes when we were talking at the end, I didn't hear what you said about Russia and China. Thank you. Do you know anything from Russia, Mr Katsotis? Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u42	We'll make a deal with the Soviet Union, I think. I will try to sum up a little bit, but above all to give the message, in order to satisfy the questions that may reasonably exist among the people of tourism for exactly how Greek tourism will open. That's what matters more. Of course, what I would like to say first of all is Mr Katsotis's words, because he said very well that the country is not safe. This is what the Communist Party of Greece considers. You're spinning it around.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u43	The workers, the people say so.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u44	We heard the problems of Corfu, when it is not Corfu, the number one on any health issues. Athens has problems, Thessaloniki some time ago. It's not Corfu the most heaviest sanitary burden. So, unfortunately, all this opposition is mainly conflicting with reality, not with us. In any case, I am not a Minister for Health so that I can tell you all this. I can only say that in practice we have not seen any problems. We did not see a burden on the national health system from tourism. We have not seen all these issues. I also welcome Mrs Notopoulou's words. Finally, he recognized that there are vaccines. I hope that it will convince Mr. Tsipras, her Chief, because now we have passed from 'no vaccines and you promise vaccines' to 'why don't you do them sooner and faster'. I shall therefore say to that: 'I'm happy. Planning is carried out by the special committee set up by Mr. Themistocleus, of course with the help of many services, civil protection, the Ministry of Defence, the other ministries, which are supplied with vaccines. I therefore hope that this programme will go even faster. I hope that we do not need to be prioritised by the workers in tourism, to be able to open the ages earlier, and that everyone can be vaccinated without any problem, as quickly as possible. I wish. However, this is not only dependent on the Greek Government. It also depends on the production companies, on the agreements of the European Union. In any case, the minimum we promise is that since there is not yet the general opening for anyone who wants to make a vaccine, the tourist workers will be given priority so that we can inoculate them in this way also support our product, but above all create a wall of confidence, a wall of immunity that is ultimately translated into a wall of confidence. Because we do not want the residents to be afraid of the existence of tourists and to feel that they are endangered by tourists themselves, nor, of course, by tourists themselves, to be afraid of the people who serve them. So that's very important. I only close with a word to finish this issue with 'TUI' and what it has done and whether it has insisted. The ‘TUI’ insisted on abolishing the PLF. Is it abolished? Is the PLF abolished, the form we use? That's what he was asking for. That's not what the government did.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u45	I told you one more thing, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u46	I would first of all like to say the question raised in relation to the 'TUI' and that it imposed on many of the conditions of last year. The terms were the terms of the Greek Government and, as it turns out, they were safe. One is that. Secondly, with regard to payments, our Ministry played the role of bridge because it is obviously civil disputes and we cannot intervene.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u47	Do you know that, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u48	With regard to payments, our Ministry played the role of bridger between the market, PDO, and the rest of the hotel organizations and TUI, so that a specific programme could be put in place. This programme is also being followed by a letter. We are guarantors of this payment programme...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u49	That is not the case, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u50	...and the March dose has been paid and is now being paid and April, which are the last instalments. In fact, when there was a week's delay, we made immediate intervention to keep the timetables, just as they promised. So, even where most of it is, but for good reason, our ministry has to be involved, it is involved. So let's make it clear how we open up to this plan talk. I told you that it is already being implemented, we are not talking about a project, we are talking about the first steps in the process. I have been to the Health Committee on 22 March and on 9 April for confirmation. And on April 16, I was associated with the Health Committee, so that all we do is with their own support, approval and change. I am not saying that what we are asking for or what we propose goes right through, but it is interchangeable and it finally has its own seal. We're opening on May 14th. That must be clear. We're opening on 14 May. However, as far as the questions about other airports or anything are concerned, on 14 May the system will be fully developed. Obviously, you can't start on May 14th and open a switch. There is no tourist switch, as there is PPC switch and the current comes. We need implementation and we need to create confidence. To believe that you're going to open on May 14th, so to put on planes, tour operators to make deals with the hotel owner or travel agents must see that there is progress in this direction. That's why we're opening up. And when we say we open - it is another misunderstanding - we are not saying that we bring one - one tourist, we say we leave the middle of the market, we leave her feet, we remove restrictions and let her work, give her the solutions, make the agreements, bring the people, but we give a clear picture. What Mr Kegeroglou said earlier, charming, "only 14 May is right from what you did", that's all the plan, because to get you to say a certain date and not to say straight and every week you say something else, it means that there is a whole plan from below that is implemented with constant steps, with difficulties, by finding the people who will test, which will be located everywhere. And that is - if you want - and the greatest credit and thank you very much for the side of the Change Movement that recognizes this kind of work that has been done, even when he wants to charm. So the opening will be done safely because we have new tools, we have knowledge. Doctors know better what's going on with the disease. Last year they didn't have the same knowledge. There are infinite studies, much more than it was last year. We have vaccines and, of course, we have the rapid test. We'll use it all. Now, what we do is do it so we don't surprise ourselves. We do so so that we give better tools and better and more friendly treatment than last year. Last year we would like - and I speak about self-criticism - to say yes, we would like everything translated into many languages, we would like not to watch day and day the numbers and all the issues, so that improvements must be made, but this underestimates, as I said, what health crisis means. So we start and say: there are five conditions, five points on which the system gives defence and allows safe opening. First, it's a prerequisite for someone to come. I'm not sure why he doesn't understand it either you're with a negative test or you're with a vaccine. There's no alternative. Of course, there is recovery, but that depending on each country if anyone can prove it. We have the register - the so-called IRS - and we have every one who has recovered.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u51	All of them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u52	That is the prerequisite for all countries. Can't come if he's not vaccinated unless he doesn't prove he's recovered, or if he doesn't have a negative test to get in. It's true for everyone. Everyone is under targeted control, even the vaccinated ones may be controlled. In this way, we also have a second checkpoint, except for the digital control systems, which are even for forged, possibly certificates. Having monitoring at test level, we can see and calculate statistically how many of these people have a problem and will be controlled. And, of course, the third point is isolation. They are isolated together with their families who have been found positive. And, of course, we had to run the procedures, Mrs Notopoulou, and of course, because today that we have even partially opened, we had to have isolation hotels. And that is the best proof of all these problems that you say about isolation hotels, which we would obviously like to pay automatically on one hand, but there are procedures in the public sector, we cannot wipe them out by magic. However, the proof that in the end the experience of these hotel owners was positive from the relationship with the Ministry is that within one day we have had applications at all points of entry and so we can be ready to welcome even the first small cowards. Next, of course, there are the health protocols. This is where we work and we worked with all the doctors very intensively. And I say again that the protocols are given to all organisations, to SETE, to the World Tourism Organization, to travel agencies, to agents in various parts of Greece. They all have them. They're written in the press. Evidently they must also take FEC. We've signed them. I'm told that if it's not signed today, tomorrow, he'll be signed and gone for FEK from the Ministry of Health and this process will be completed. Let's not talk about the vaccination again. I wish, once again, to speed up the programme, to have more vaccines and not even priority need to be given to opening ages earlier and whoever wants to be vaccinated. In any case, any tourist who comes will know that he is served safely. Of course we have our international initiatives. As much as you want, as much as you try to zero them, these international initiatives also have recognition, our country is recognized when the EOT and the Ministry of Tourism is voted as the best tourist players in the world. It is not Godcharis that the people are not voted on, that the institutions are voted on, that the roles are voted on and that the country itself is reflected in them. The World Tourism Organization a few days ago adopted the proposals that I made as head of the technical crisis management team to relaunch tourism and in relation to cross-border travel and security, where we saw all the applications that can be put in, the common pass, the travel pass - twenty-two different applications exist - in relation to the safe movement of tourists, in relation to the provision of business liquidity and, of course, to support work. Four very important points, so that tourism as a whole can relaunch. With regard to international initiatives, I have seen an attempt to say that the certificate we proposed on 12 January is not the certificate issued by the European Union. I really raise my hands up. The fact that some spoke of a passport, while the Prime Minister's letter does not have the word 'passport', but the word 'certificate', is what may have caused the confusion, which I actually saw in practice when we met with my French counterpart in Madrid and he says 'inform me why I saw this passport'. I told him there wasn't a passport anywhere, that it's not an obligation to be vaccinated to travel. It's a certificate. And he asked me: 'Then the word 'passport'? I told him it wasn't us. We didn't say that word. It could be nice and euphoric. And can I tell you something? The countries who object that if you travel only vaccinated this is discriminating and thus separating people into two categories, those who can travel and those who can't talk about it internally for concerts, theatres, for movies. The same countries. In other words, they are looking at us who have never said that this certificate is an obligation to travel and the same countries are turning in and saying 'We cannot open the concerts if not all of them are vaccinated'. So this kind of criticism comes from elsewhere. It comes from the protectionism of countries that have found that by creating artificial barriers they can keep people inside, not go abroad, not save currency. But this is a short-sighted practice. I can understand it for third countries, but for Europe I cannot understand it. It's against every sense of solidarity, it's against every logic. So do not go along with this criticism, because it is not even a national position, it is an anti-European position. The signs are therefore positive. It's very pleasant to be positive. Only a post for "TUI" in Russia and for "RYANAIR" that say they have their most extensive program for Greece, beyond 2019, beyond anything, in Greece in 2021. This also answers whether we are strategically strengthening all kinds of tourism. Because the 'RYANAIR' is not the tourism of all inclusive. It brings people, tourists who are dispersed into society, go to different accommodations and are - if you like - the traditional confrontation or discussion of the two types of tourism, organised tourism and tourism that could "left" much more. This is what I was told in Crete when my Prime Minister entrusted me with the position of Minister of Tourism. We therefore see that strategic objectives in this crisis have not been forgotten. I am giving another example of aneditology to understand how much the country's brand was strengthened. The last time we spoke with most cruise companies that are interested in Greece. Twelve of them want to do homeboarding in Greece for the first time. That's a huge number. One of these, then, says to me: 'We are opening up with three regions: the Caribbean, England and Greece'. That happened three, three and a half weeks ago. Maybe they've changed the data. I don't know. Then that's what they told me. We have reservations of $8 million for the Caribbean, $9 million for England, $40 million for Greece. This is the result of building relationships, this is the result of the country's good image. I hope that all of us together will work in this direction and support it. Of course, too much has been said about support measures for workers, trademarks, reductions, etc. Mr Brutsis has been extensively mentioned, and as I have said, he is a very well-known knowledge of the issues of the Ministry of Labour. I present documents from the Ministry of Finance, from the AIA and other services from the OAED which describe in detail all the measures taken. [[At this point, the Minister for Tourism, Mr. Theocharis (Haris) Theocharis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So I close by saying that the project is no longer a plan, but it has begun and been implemented. The first step has now been taken. Next week we hope to have a second step, which will have more to do with shipping, with yachting, with an opening in this direction too. And we will continue with small exposures until the end date on May 14th. On 14 May we will be able to open with the European Union, as we are already starting today, and fifteen other third countries, the most essential and important. That is why we are expanding, as your plan was saying - to refer to this, gentlemen of the Change Movement - and to the Middle East. I'm gonna make a series of trips next time. I will of course also be in traditional countries such as Germany, Britain, France, Spain, I will be in Qatar, I will be in Saudi Arabia, where necessary, in the United States, so that we can give the clear signal. That's what the market needs today. No country gives as clear a message as we do. And the clear message is that the country has a plan, it is now being implemented, it is safely ready to welcome tourists and finally give a solution to the people of tourism, because ultimately this solution is the solution to prosperity, it is the solution to stand by tourism on its own. We do not want to support him with Soviet-type interventions, it is not the solution. The solution is for people to be able to do their job and finally find some sort of normality. It's our debt to the rest of the world. I am closing down with this, giving the slogan as we have said before: this year what this pandemic has deprived us of is too much, we can no longer control it. We see it in the images we're watching from the news. We can't anymore. It's so hard to incarcerate. It is our duty, therefore, to regain these needs, these "I want" of the world tourists, to offer them as a minimum way to help mankind regain its balance, to regain a normality. This will naturally be beneficial to us, but it will primarily be beneficial to those who choose to come to our country. That's why "All we want is Greece", what you want, what you find here, because our country has proved that it respects both its citizens and the tourists who choose to come here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u53	Let's hope everything's going well. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the number 6/19-11-2020 topical question is adjourned: "In full stature and impasse Greek tourism, while the government is improvising". At this point we will have a short break for health reasons, and we will be back in a few minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u54	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS In a letter from the Secretary-General of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs, he informs the House of the following: "We hereby inform you of the debate on topical and urgent questions in the context of parliamentary scrutiny on Monday 19 April 2021 that the current questions to be discussed are as follows: The Questions Nos 668/8-4-2021, 676/124/2021, 682/124/2021, 683/124/2021 and 683/124/2021 will be answered by the Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr Spyridon - Panagiotis (Spilio) Lebanese. Question No 902/16-12-20 pursuant to Rule 130(5) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Nikolaos Papathanassis. Questions Nos 661/5-2021, 662/5-2021, 675/11-4-2021 will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Vassilis Kontozamanis. Question No 684/12-2021 will be answered by the Deputy Minister of National Defence, Alkiviadis Stefani. Question No 4563/25-2-2021 pursuant to Rule 130(5) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure will be answered by the State Secretary for Rural Development and Food, Mr Fotini Arabajis. O Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs Mr Stylianos - Ioannis Koutnajis". We are starting the debate with the second number 902/16-12-2020 of the cycle of petitions and questions by MP I Thessaloniki of the Movement of Change Mr. Charalambos Kastanides to the Minister of Development and Investment, on the subject: "The renewal of the area of the International Exhibition of Thessaloniki" Mr. Castanides, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, following a recommendation from the Board of Directors of the Thessaloniki International Exhibition, a board that far exceeded the horizon of a government, your Government decided to support a renewal plan for the Thessaloniki International Exhibition in the area that is currently established, i.e. in the centre of the city. Renovation of the Thessaloniki International Exhibition will be done using the method of the public-private partnership because, as you argue, public resources are lacking and it would therefore be useful for the project to be entrusted with private financing, but with the guarantee of the Greek public. To depreciate the private person, who will take over the renovation, his funding, the refreshment plan is transformed into a real estate project in the city. A hotel has to be built, the height of which will be up to thirty-two meters. A commercial centre, a financial service centre, should be built and there will be other activities than exhibitions or entertainment in the same space. We thus charge environmentally for a city with the most unfavourable proportion in Europe of green per inhabitant. This plan has been a plan for recent years. After 1985, when there was the Regulatory Plan of Thessaloniki, the entire government supported, on the basis of the regulatory plan, the move of the Thessaloniki International Exhibition to the west of the city, in order to have wider development spaces, to ensure its viability, to serve the need to upgrade the downgraded social, economic and ecological areas of western Thessaloniki and, at the same time, to take a breath of the city centre, as it could thus be moved to form a large metropolitan park of green that would extend from the coastal zone of Thessaloniki to the periphery forest of Shaich Sou and would host mild exhibition activities, cultural activities, which would need it not only in the centre of the city, but the entire urban fabric. Minister, such a choice assures you that it is a mistaken choice and constitutes a overthrow of a traditional design, which begins with the extensive green dreams of the Emrar, has passed to the Regulatory Plan of Thessaloniki and the City of Thessaloniki and has been demanded for many years by the citizens, who have believed that the whole city will benefit by upgrading the center and in the west by offering services and ensuring the sustainability of the Thessaloniki International Exhibition. I know there is a recommendation from the administration of the international exhibition. I know that there are chambers of the city and productive bodies in this regard, but I am sure you know that there is a lot of citizens, a movement of citizens signing a comprehensive text, which I was responsible for and taking the initiative to present to Parliament. You did not answer as Ministry in this report by the citizens of Thessaloniki, including prominent scientists, professors of the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, chamber representatives and productive bodies, all mayors of western Thessaloniki and many others who do not belong in the area of western Thessaloniki. We are in a moment just now when the government will table the proposal concerning the Recovery Fund. It's a pity to miss this opportunity, as I'll have the chance right after I say it with evidence. Because the amount of 220 million, i.e. the estimated cost of regeneration of the IBM in the existing area, will not be sufficient, even after the opinion of the Council of State. I'll have a chance to explain then. I should like to close, Mr President, with one comment. Minister, my initiative is not because we want to check on you. It is mainly because I seek to get together again, to reconvene the government, without losing the opportunity, with the authorities of the city, with the municipalities of all the Prefecture of Thessaloniki, not only with the central municipality, nor with the region alone. Yes, again with the chambers and production bodies and the movements of citizens. I add the Members of the European Parliament. It will have to win the country, because the Thessaloniki International Exhibition is not a local fact, but something that concerns the economy of the whole country. It will be won by northern Greece and Thessaloniki.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u56	Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u57	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Kastanidis, it is a great deal of value and we have a duty to discuss when a major project is to be developed in a city like Thessaloniki. And, as you said, we have a duty to agree, but also to analyse the data. But when we start to agree on something: will we talk with realistic scenarios or will we talk with hypothetical scenarios? Can a city like Thessaloniki expect the regeneration of such vital space as the exhibition, to be transferred back to decades, as has happened? Because you quite rightly said that this debate is not today, but it goes far behind. We must therefore say that we are at a key point and we must decide what we want to do with the city. And since all this debate also relates to the Recovery Fund, as you have said, and to the future plans and how we want to see the operation of a city, but also of realism, that is, how the projects can be implemented, we need to go in depth and see how it is possible for a project to take breath, be born, be created. Because I have listened very carefully and with great respect - I have read the reference to the scientists, as you have tabled - your introductory position, and because we are not going to discover the wheel today, in 2021, since the international exhibitions operate in many capitals of Europe, we have to say what is in force in these capitals of Europe. The first thing, then, of realism is whether we can and can do such a job to get it out of there and get it to another region. The estimates that exist for such a move - which is why I am telling you about realism, because I understand that you have tabled the report because you want to discuss it - is that such a project can reach half a billion euros. But that's not all. Generally, as these plans operate today and the experience of other cities in Europe, any city has tried to take out this central function through the centre has failed and revised its decision. We have examples of such cities. The third and last is that this city has learned to live with the exhibition inside the center, that is, the interaction of the city with the operation of this centre is very important and touches its everyday life, tourism and function. I am sure, however, that you have also read the positive opinion of the Council of State which analyses many of these issues that we are about to discuss today. I will table for the Minutes of the House the Special Spatial Plan for the Exhibition Centre of Thessaloniki, as well as the positive opinion of the Council of State which refers to many of the things we are discussing today. [[At this point the Deputy Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Nikolaos Papathanases, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Stenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I would like your tolerance, Mr President, because it is very important.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u58	Yes, Minister, alas.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u59	So what does this decision mean? It refers to a construction that really does not bear environmental burdens on the city. Why isn't it environmentally burdening her? Because the structure factor to be applied - be careful with - is 0.63% and the cover factor is 0.45%. What does that mean, practically? It means that today's free space will be increased. It's going to be green space. It will become a metropolitan park with an area of sixty five acres. And that's not all that's done. There will be connections between the city and the metropolitan park and this operation. Because we are talking about a report as it works today, it will simply be upgraded, modern, with bioclimate buildings, with a commercial activity that will support the whole construction. Because we need to, Mr Castagnides, and I think you know that very much, that we need to know that the money does not exist in leafy trees. We must be very careful that we can do projects that are supported and financed. Because we have experienced projects that have not been carried out in the past which do not have technical support. And that is where I shall refer to the PPP projects - which are referred to as how bad they are, I think that the PPP projects and you have served them - because they are projects that are effective and have real results, because the one who manufactures it also has a duty to maintain it for thirty years, but at the same time they also have funding, and that brings the availability payments over a period of many years. So since we divide the building block into six zones, we also have 6 special uses, sports facilities, cultural sites, as well as in areas 4 and 5 we have a green development, the metropolitan park. You referred to the hotel and the conditions of construction of the area, as you say the thirty-two meters. It's only about thirty-two meters from the hotel. One building is and that does not violate the conditions of the area. And it goes to the corner just where there are similar buildings, leaving if you want a green belt to come down exactly the way the original plan was. Now on the subject of the opinion, so as not to consume more than your time, what does the Council of State say? It says Thessaloniki, like Athens, is a metropolitan center. These two metropolitan centres are the main urban towns, i.e. gateways of entry at international level. Be careful how the Council of State treats it. He tells you these two cities are gateways, so we need to welcome there and the business community. Also, all directions of the Spatial Planning tend to create a metropolitan park in the area. More importantly, the role of Thessaloniki and the objectives of the general framework for spatial planning and sustainable development for Thessaloniki include strengthening its role as a business link between the European Union and the Balkans and the Black Sea countries. Therefore, what you have in your hands, which is the Special Urban Plan of the International Exhibition, goes hand in hand with the expectations of the inhabitants - which is why the majority of the inhabitants have accepted it at the point where they are - and also in the vision of Ernesto Emrar - because you mentioned - who wanted a large urban park from the sea to the forest. Look, what is it that's worried about you? Is it the fact that there will be the exhibition spaces on the right and a trade activity on the left, but in essence we have an absolute connection with the coastal front? All of this is done precisely so that we can support and build, make such a project a reality. Because this project, which you are tabling, is a project that is not realistic, Mr Kastanidis, it is a project that is not going to be implemented. And because we have learned here in Greece to always throw the ball out of the field, it is important that the time should come when we do our works. Thank you, Mr President, and apologise for the time I took.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, too, but I need to explain myself so that I don't get misunderstood. This is a very big issue, and in my view that is what I judged. That is why I have been tolerant - I shall say the word - and to Mr Castanides with a lot of time and time to you, Minister. The issue, in my view, does not begin and end in the context of a brief question and a brief answer. It is a very big and a key issue not only for Thessaloniki, I would say, but for the whole of northern Greece. Because for us, the non-North Helladians, when we visit Thessaloniki, a point of reference, is the International Exhibition of Thessaloniki. Mr. Castanides, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u61	Mr President, thank you very much for your understanding and tolerance. Minister, I would like to tell you that you are right to feel sure that I have studied the sixty-eight-page practical opinion of the Council of State and I hope that you have done so too, because of what you have said, that is not the case. First of all, we need to clarify a few things. You started by saying that it is a Utopian project what citizens' moves or mayors of Western regions propose because it will take a lot of billions of euros to become a new exhibition centre to the west of the city and will thus be given the opportunity to regenerate the entire existing space in a large metropolitan green area. I do not know how you have done the calculation, but I will tell you that the 220 million that is estimated will be the cost of rejuvenating the International Exhibition of Thessaloniki in the existing space, will prove to be an absolutely fictitious size. Let's see what the opinion of the Council of State tells you. Because in the area of existing facilities there is a cemetery whose history begins from the Hellenistic times and reaches medieval times, extensive excavations will always need to be carried out under the responsibility of the responsible Archaeological Service, which means that this will evacuate the cost of reconstruction, which is not included in the estimate of 220,000,000. You said that 65 acres of green are to be created, that the hotel will only have a height of 32 meters. While the other structures will be lower. Let's see what the truth is? Excluding the area occupied by Alexandria Melathhi of Thessaloniki, except for the Museum of Contemporary Macedonian Art, in the hundreds of seventy-six acres of the International Exhibition of Thessaloniki, that is to say, ninety thousand square meters of surface will be built. The uncovered spaces will be reduced by fourteen thousand square metres, because, as the opinion of the Council of State notes, a building, for example, is added to the plan. next to the Museum of Contemporary Macedonian Art. So you have ninety thousand square meters of built-in surface, fourteen thousand square meters less uncovered space and the northwest side will hide, due to the building of the hotel, the Byzantine walls and the University of Thessaloniki. In addition, may I ask you, does the International Exhibition of Thessaloniki belong to the supreme Emigrations? It belongs, as does the coastal front of Aretsus. It has fallen very realstate lately under the guidance and blessings of your Government, Minister. Real estate will also be in the stunning coastal front of Aretsos - according to the plan proposed by the TIADE - with the reconstruction of a settlement and a hotel there too. And on the coast front of Arecous, then, under the responsibility of the GOI, which controls and moves the procedures, we go to a real estate. This luxurious ruse of the supreme Emigrations is a feat of the past political period, why does it not initiate procedures for the International Exhibition of Thessaloniki, which is subject to it? What's going on? Is there an agreement between the administration of the International Exhibition of Thessaloniki and the supreme Emigrations not to appear for anyone who is evident - in my view - the cause of the supreme demilitarisation, why could people rise up? Why, in one case, does the GOI act, but is this not the case at the International Exhibition of Thessaloniki? It's a reasonable question that someone has. It would be very useful for the citizens to know, Minister, who financial advisers are. Give me an economic advisor who compiled the economic framework for the renewal of the Thessaloniki International Exhibition and I would be happy. Minister, realism is not to keep in mind that you have the funding of the Recovery Fund in front of you. Once your Government announced the summary of the National Plan to be submitted to the Recovery Fund for projects which are also pending for many years, the Mayor of Athenians, apparently in consultation with the Government and the Prime Minister, was ready to announce what will be done with the renewal on Alexandra Avenue and the Botanic. I am sorry that you do not give the people in the city the opportunity to discuss the possible funding from the Recovery Fund. The Recovery Fund, with the exception of some of some of the actions, about 30 billion, will have made available for two major axes, the "Transfer to green growth" and the "Transfer to the digital age", about 40 billion euros. And is the metropolitan region of Thessaloniki not entitled, as the Mayor of Athenians rightly did in consultation with the government, some of the billions that you said, to move the ICU west, to upgrade the area there, to ensure its viability in the future? Let us all rethink together how the project in question can be financed from the Recovery Fund? What's your hurry?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u62	Finish, Mr. Castanides.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u63	I shall conclude, Mr President. I would, however, appeal to both the actors of the city and the Mayor of Thessaloniki and the Region of Thessaloniki, to do what other mayors do and to claim breathing works, which will eventually upgrade the city as a whole. Because it is of great importance that the breath of the entire metropolitan Thessaloniki, from the Urban Park of Emperor, so that we can see from the Shahik Sou and the Byzantine Walls to the beach, the green space, the entertainment of students and teachers from the Aristotle University and from the University of Macedonia, people from the 3rd Army, and all the citizens of Thessaloniki. We must not miss the opportunity of funding from the Recovery Fund. That is why I have already told you from my prototype that I do not want to control you as a government, I would like to challenge you to suspend activities to rethink and decide on the basis of the financial possibilities available. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u64	Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u65	Mr Kastanides, that is what I said earlier, that you have certainly read the positive opinion of the Council of State and I think you will find many answers there. However, since you have referred to the Recovery Fund, which you have certainly studied, I would like to say that it is a fund, a sum of 32 billion, who is leveraging 57 billion in the Greek economy, and the main axes are green and digital transition, it is training, and it is private investment. In fact, we have paid tribute, as you know, that the government has tabled one of the best projects in the committee, and we expect definitive development and approval. Surely this money from the Recovery Fund has a course, a timeline and an implementation. And since you have certainly studied the Recovery Fund, tell me how a project, as you say - I'm sorry, I don't mean anything with "Utopian", utopian in the sense of mine, is something that is not going to happen now or if you want to do it will not happen in the next ten to twenty years, it means utopian, if you want to speak with everyday rules today, in Greece of 2021, in Greece that has 16% unemployment, in Greece, which must quickly come out through COVID, to be able to speed up, find jobs for the children of the Greeks, bring back the Greeks who are abroad. So that's what it wants, Mr. Castagnides. By 2023, therefore, the projects that will receive funding should be committed. Understand? So this work you are proposing cannot enter the Recovery Fund, it is so simple. It cannot enter the Recovery Fund because it cannot be committed until 2023 and cannot have been implemented and payments made until the last quarter of 2025 have been made. Do you understand what I mean? Take this off your radar, that you can get in, the particular thing you suggest. Now let's go see, because you talked about real estate and you talked about percentages. I told you the percentages, these are, we agree that it is 0.63 the build-up factor - I told you, we agreed - and that is 45% the cover factor. Is it important that at the moment you have sixty-five acres of greenery in this town, at that point? Because we know the place, do you have sixty-five acres? So when do you plan to have these sixty-five acres on the basis of your plan? Can I tell you when? Never! You will never have these on the basis of your plan unless this project is implemented that we have proposed. Now, because you have referred to the Council of State and you have certainly read it: Where can we disagree with the positions of the Council of State, which says that strengthening the role based on this general framework of spatial planning, which has been tabled, is to strengthen the role of the European Union's business and trade links with the Balkans? Where can you disagree with what he says - why is he in here and in the Minutes of the House - that they tend to create a metropolitan park in the region? The Council of State says that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u66	He doesn't hide the feasibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u67	Mr. Comrade, let me finish this later. It also refers to instruments - and this is perhaps something you said - that the new regulatory plan of Thessaloniki was drawn up in a era of dynamism, great expectations in a general climate and the prospect of creating a new exhibition centre. That is what you referred to earlier. It says, however, "However, the redesign of the installations" - says this in the Council of State, Mr Kastanides - "the present position is today the only possible medium-term solution under the present circumstances". The Council of State tells you that what you are proposing is not possible. It also says that with the creation of the metropolitan park of greenery in the intervention area, this particular, the connection of the area with the urban tissue that is now detached is created. The Council of State, this supreme court, tells us that this placement is correct. Also, because you mentioned whether we have read it, I would like to say that they represent an improvement in the cultural and natural environment, as well as the living conditions in the area and in the city of Thessaloniki in general. What are we going to question here now? What are we gonna say? We have a project that can be done, a project that will create the metropolitan park that will give the Thessalonians a place to develop and at the same time accepts the Council of State. And since I did not have time to refer to my initial position, I would like to say this: you know that there is an international architectural competition, it was announced in September. Do you want to know how many applications for participation are there? It is a hundred and sixteen of thirty-three countries belonging to five continents. The whole world community showed interest in this project. The jury has chosen fifteen groups and on 28 June we will have the final decision. In short, I understand the reference and there are always other proposals. It makes sense, in a society we live, opinions exist, other proposals exist. But we as a Greek state should go and see what is best, what is realistic and what will create conditions and traffic in a city that needs it, such as Thessaloniki. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u68	Mr President, just one phrase.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u69	I can't help it, Mr. Castanides, because I'm breaking the Rules of Procedure. I've already violated him. You'll talk privately with the Minister. As far as I am concerned, enough time has been given - and rightly so - and even time is commensurate with the current questions, it is simply not all the people who speak on a question. Now to go to the normal procedure where I would ask colleagues and ministers to approach the real time. I didn't say it was, I said approaching. We move to the first question under number 4563/25/02-2021 of the circle of petitions and questions by SYRIZA's MEP - Progressive Alliance Mr.Olympia Tyloridou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the subject: "Greekizations and fraudulent Greek honey". The question will be answered by the State Secretary for Rural Development and Food, Mr. Lightning Arabaji. Mrs. Tyloridou, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u70	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Secretary, one of the most growing sectors of agricultural production in our country is beekeeping, which suffers from illegal Greekism and from the fraud of the product. In particular, during the pandemic and now proven by the controls of the EFSI, the size of the problem, which leads, on the one hand, to the reduction of the income of Greek beekeepers and, on the other, to deceive Greek consumers of the origin and quality of the product. This problem has especially been gigantic in recent years. In the previous government, we had launched cooperation between various control mechanisms, such as the GFCM, the GFCM, the HICP, the FDA, as mixed control in the honeymoon chain can deal more effectively with the problem and considerably reduced this phenomenon. The Government of New Democracy, however, has shown that despite the magnificence of the stumbling of the imitation of Greek agricultural products, these phenomena are constantly on the surface. So, since the problem of both the origin of honey and its nutritional value is very great and also creates additional problems, since, as many beekeepers denounce, they can no longer compete with cheap and dubious products and cannot participate in public competitions, what actions do you intend to take to intensify the effort to fight the ills of honey and illegal Greekism? More detailed, do you intend to proceed with recruitment of qualified personnel for the audit and control laboratories? Do you intend to carry out checks at the country's borders and at the hubs of the national roads? In closing, I have a suggestion for you. Do you intend to make institutional interventions similar to those for the WHI, signed in March 2019, so that there can be a similar 'Artemis' system to declare the receipt and delivery of the product, so that balance control can be better monitored? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Mrs Tyloridou, for her approach and for the time. The State Secretary, Mr. Arabaji, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Mr President. Madam President, I would really like to thank you because, in your question, we are given a first-class opportunity to highlight what we, as the political leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development, have started and of course are implementing in the area of the control of unfair practices. And, of course, the koruna of unfair practices is so-called Greekisms. I think I can only remind you that we are the government, which has established the stricter legal framework at the level of unfair practices with Law 4691/2020, where the National Online Beekeeping Registry became a reality by Article 9. I say, therefore, that we are the government that proposes the policy of dealing with unfair practices. But you know that many times it doesn't matter when he says it. It is worth it when the market operators say it to which our policies ultimately address. Because you said that for your days things and miracles were happening in connection with our controls and on our days only majorities and a result of zero, so I will read what the National Interprofessional of honey says on October 12, 2020. He says at last: "They have started to make substantial checks to help deal with the illusion but also with the Greekisms. Where there is political will, the State may provide solutions that benefit producers, consumers and honest traders.’ And I continue: "The time has finally come for the political will and the state mechanism to function following our constant objections. In the context of checks carried out, the EFET withdrew unsafe honey from the supermarket shelves’. On the occasion of the event, therefore, the National Interprofessionals publicly thanks the FEFET and the leadership of the Ministry of Culture to understand the problem of Greekization and their immediate response: "The determination of the deliberate legality of the pure Greek honey by some companies is the beginning of the uncovering of the iceberg of Greeks against healthy beekeeping and the Greek consumer". So these of the two bodies, with which I imagine you, too, had consultations and contacts. At the same time, Mrs former Minister, I am trying to find out what has happened over your days. I haven't found a press release from the FFD that's turning out to be unfavourable practices. You're talking here about mixed steps of control. You're pressing open doors. We are applying them to the mixed steps for dealing with the Greekisations on lambs and eggs from the previous Easter, but in practice, not in words. So I'm trying to find out where these mixed tiles are. And I get the response from the Director-General of the FFD saying: "In response to your email, we know that from the 2017 FFD version, in which the controls in the field of honey for the implementation of fraudulent practices and fraudulentity programmes came, it was not required and there was no assistance or cooperation with other control mechanisms such as the FFD, the IMO or the ESA." So, do you have the kindness, my fellow Member, to show us what you're talking about with papers? Because I'm afraid, in the end, the majestics and the vague things come from your side. Because you are obviously the government that did the least of the controls in honey when, before you took over, fourteen audits had been carried out in 2015, twenty-five audits in 2016, twenty-three audits in 2017. And our government, which, in the midst of a pandemic, which you recognize - I imagine - is the problems it creates, it is eight times more, not to say it doubles, the controls and we reach within 2020 a hundred and sixty-five checks, which, as you know, have not yet been completed in relation to their registration. This will take place in June 2021, the current one. So, what inaction are you talking about, what uncontrolled market, my colleague? [[At this point, the State Secretary for Rural Development and Food Mr Fotini Arabatzis submits for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] The rest of you will allow me to say it in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u73	Thank you. The reason for this is that Mrs. Tyloridou has the floor for her denunciation.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Mr President. I also said in my prototype that the market is now being filled with fraudulent honey and that is obviously not good. But let us see why this phenomenon has been gigantic. She said the State Secretary with a lot of pride that it was the Government of New Democracy that beats the Greek products and referred to Law 4691/2020. I will not mention SYRIZA's criticism, but the words of the President of the interprofessional feta in an interview on March 17, 2021 at the "BYMA TELEORANITION" - and Mr Vitalis is not a SYRIZA, a friend to you - who says, for the government: "He created a law with very serious penalties, but this law is regulatory, it is not executive. Who will execute him now?’ So he stayed in the void and I'll file it in the Minutes. You have not responded to my proposal so that we can use good balance practices, such as the joint ministerial decision on milk, because you obviously do not want to say publicly that this decision was in the right direction. However, your Minister, Mr Lebanese, says so, in a reply he gives to a report by a Member of the New Democracy, because at the end of the day you say other things to each other and other things you say here in public when the Greek people hear. Mr Lebanese therefore says: 'The feasibility of creating a database similar to the online application 'Artemis' for the control of a monthly milk balance is considered to be equivalent to the CRL for controls on milk'. And I'll testify to that in the Minutes. You said again with a great deal of pride how much your beekeepers praise you. I shall therefore submit to the Minutes what the President of the Ombudsman says about your policy, that it is a policy of inertia and weakness, and that is what you are taking on the beekeeping register, which you have found ready from the previous government and from the services. And he says the president of the U.S.E.E.L.D. says it's good to be activated. Obviously, in words you may do well, but in practice not. And I shall end, Mr President, by what has been said about the number of checks. I will submit to the minutes the official EFSI page, where it is clear that in 2020 seven thousand four hundred fifty-two controls were made, when nine thousand, that is, six hundred more, and nine thousand four hundred eighty-one in 2019. And there are the corresponding elements for honey and other products, such as feta. We also have phenomena of illegal and fraudulent behaviour these days with feta, where I would like to inform you that more than ninety-five checks have been carried out since the day the New Democracy Government took over from the time that ninety-five controls have been carried out and the government is fading over ninety-five checks, when only three thousand had been carried out in 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, too. The Minister has the floor for her own dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr President. I am surprised, of course, that you put everything in the same bag. You refer to the 2018 and 2019 audits and you put everything in it, so I can say it outraged, because to talk about honey, which you were supposed to have come here with your timely question, you did not deny what I mentioned to you with information from EFET that you were doing on your days - 2015, 2016, -, 2017-, Ms. Tyloridou,...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u77	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u78	...the least of the checks. Let's go in a row now. Nowadays, since January 2020, a thorough holistic effort has been launched in cooperation with the Bulgarian authorities on issues of fraud in honey. What's happened so far, Mrs. Tyloridou? So far sixty batches have been withdrawn. I'm guessing you're tracking the FFET press releases. I didn't find one in your day. I'd really like you to bring it to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u79	This is not necessarily good, because the legislative framework is flexible. Not applicable.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u80	Don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u81	Look, Mrs. Tyloridou, sixty batches in Greece, Germany, Bulgaria, forty tons have been seized. You are talking about an uncontrolled market, and here the market shows that it has findings and that it works at the expense of those who do unfair practices. You talked about the interprofessional feta. First of all, you are confusing the two sectors. It's okay. The President and I will give me one-and-a-half minutes, because you have raised a whole lot of issues. You question this "bridge of Arta" on your day, when you met, again you met, they went, they came. When did it become the national interprofessional feta?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u82	It hasn't happened yet, Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u83	The New Democracy Government has just taken over! What was the price of sheep's milk...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u84	But, Mr President, it's on paper. It didn't happen!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u85	Excuse me, Mr. President. Please impose the order and I'm sure of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u86	Yes, Mrs. Tyloridou, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u87	It's on paper, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u88	But don't mention it on a personal level. Reply on the data you have. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u89	In practice, Ms. Telliyoridou, the price of milk on your day was about 0.70 minutes, which you had those taxes - the remember - that you had those insurance contributions, the trade fee, the solidarity levy. This is not all about our days. There was a reduction in tax rates and a generous reduction in insurance contributions. There was a suspension of the collection of the solidarity levy and the trade fee for the second time and the price of milk from 0,70 and a few minutes went to nearly 1 euro!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u90	You don't say it all. From the decrease...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u91	So, obviously, my dear lady, former Undersecretary, the policies are working. I'll tell you something else. A sign of market confidence, Mrs. Tyloridou, is that since the start of this attempt to dismantle the honey, sixty-seven businesses, colleague, make nameless complaints about fraudulent practices in the FFET, because the first time they feel confidence in the state, the leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development and the FFET, and they become partners of the state. Now, as far as the National Electronic Apiculture Register is concerned - all of which you were ready and here we came and just signed up - first of all, to say that here is the ministerial decision and the National Electronic Apiculture Registry, Mrs. Tellyoridou, which, of course - in relation to what you had - has some very important differences. An unpapered sector in your day - four and a half years you have had it unpapered - now for the first time is mapped with active beekeepers who, apart from saying their bees, say for the first time and where the product is being handled - the first stage in the fight against unfair practices. For the first time, the conditions are given how the audit will be carried out. For the first time they are registered without physical presence in the DAG, but on their computer. And of course, Madam Secretary, I don't know what you're suggesting. That there is bilingualism in the leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development? I didn't get it. What I have to tell you is that you are obviously dealing with other issues and you are probably not reading. Why should you have read that there have been - and there are many publications about this - cooperation between me, as it has the responsibility for the sector, the Ministry of Digital Governance and ELVO for analogous systems of Artemis, or balances in honey. Read the press. Since March they have still been notified. He's a working party. We are working in this direction. Thank you very much for the proposal, which of course comes very drunk. We've got you there. However, to say here that you are making proposals to us for things that are already being implemented, I think, Madam President, it is not enough. You said something about recruiting the hundred and eighty. Let me remind you here at the National Representation, my fellow Member, that for your days this AACC process had been frozen, as many other things had been frozen and stayed in drawers. And our government came and instructed - the Minister's mandate - on 2 October 2019 to consider the possibility of speeding up the procedures for issuing this notice, due to the urgent and ever-increasing changes in the services of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u92	Since 2019...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u93	But finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u94	I shall conclude, Mr President. And today the Higher Council for Personnel Selection began to produce temporary results. That's what it is as far as the staff are concerned. Of course, because you said that the sector has been affected and we have not taken care of, I close by two figures: as regards the repayable advance on honey, 3,518,602 euros have been received by the beekeepers, two hundred 12 beekeepers were beneficiaries of the aid we gave for the people's markets. And, of course, from 19 February, Mrs Scrivener, she is in the office of the Deputy Minister, Mr. Sylakakis, the proposal of our service in excellent and insecure cooperation with the bodies to justify the damage suffered by the coronary pandemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u95	Next question is the fifth under number 684-12-2021 topical question by the Member of Parliament, Aetolokarnania, of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Papastassis, to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Many problems in the School of Advanced Education of Neosletts (SPEN) at Camp Kolokotoni in Tripoli". The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of National Defence, Mr Alkiviadis Stefanis. Here, Mr Papastasis, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we take the opportunity from a seemingly individual event, but of which aspects are reproduced in too many areas of the Armed Forces - not necessarily camps in the brotherly sense, as we say - and that is why we are giving him the dimension of a timely question. It is the fact that at the beginning of the month that we have been in the aftermath of the inauguration of newly recruited soldiers from the Pyrenees training centre in Thebes, they moved to Tripoli, the 11th Infantry Constitution, to participate at some stage in advanced training. They were transported with coaches, in which thirty soldiers from different units were on board, without any prevention measures at all and without prior diagnostic tests being carried out. This congratulation, the journey, lasted for more than three hours. Three hours, that is, these people were exposed to possible infections. With their arrival two of the thirty coronary positives were found. The twenty - eight forced into the quarantine process. The administration of the camp - and this is an important part here - has proposed to these twenty-eight either that they take 14 days' special leave and move towards their family home at their own means and expenses or stay quarantine in the camp. Furthermore, it was proposed that, if they decide to go to their homes, they sign a responsible declaration that the military service has no responsibility for how they will be transferred to their homes and, furthermore, that by returning them at their own expense they will do test to prove that they are not positive. You and I - but I suppose also those who have served their term of office - I think we are aware of the level of communication between the administration and the soldier, who is the principal of this communication. Note that the quarantine facilities used in the camp are classified as unacceptable, do not satisfy essential elements for this use, there is a lack of cleaning materials and means for protecting against the coronary, etc. In fact, the administration has made it clear to them that it is the responsibility of the soldiers to supply these kinds. Of course, there is no talk of hot water or heating. Here - and we draw attention to this point - we do not blame the administration of Tripoli. We are well aware that, both at action level and at media level, the government has these people uncovered. Minister, the facts I have described could also be regarded as individual, as I have already said. Unfortunately, the complaints from units of all three branches - the Mississippi Army, the Navy and the Air Force - from all over Greece, continental and insular, are raining. I do not want to go into detail and I do not want them to be heard in public at the moment. This shows, however, that in the area of the Armed Forces, an area with very specific features of militarism, forced confrontation and with complete weakness of choices from military personnel, the government's policy has proved to be completely inadequate, seriously harming the health of the people who serve in this area of the centre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, too, Mr. Papastasis. Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u98	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good morning and good week to everyone, and thank you for the opportunity to reply. We have answered the Communist Party of Greece to more than seventy questions on the subject, and that really cheers us up because it gives us the opportunity to present the picture I would not say the truth - you see I am not using this word - but the right dimension to all the things you say. I am starting with this incident, because in your question you are addressing other issues. What happened? The training was completed in Thebes, and the soldiers had to be transferred to Tripoli. How many soldiers were they? Sixty, not thirty. How did they get transferred? With two buses. What buses? Sixty-five. Why two buses while fewer? Because we are applying what the EHR says, we use every bus in less than 65% of its capacity. So the soldiers were rightly diluted. They left on Friday morning at 9:30, arrived in Tripoli this afternoon. Once they arrived, it was all test. Why did it happen when they arrived? Why did they enter another society? By entering the other society, we had to make sure they were healthy. They found four positives, not two. The four were isolated directly. The next day, Saturday morning, everyone checked again. Two more, six more in total. They're isolated. There the administration raises the question: will I keep these six and the other fifty-four here in quarantine for fourteen days? The command given was: No, they will take 14 days, as foreseen. And that's where the administration comes in and communicates with the parents as ordered to see what parents want. There the same choices were submitted: either they will leave by their own car or they will leave with their relatives who will come and take them, because we did not want to risk getting into public transport and transporting the problem elsewhere. You understand that the sixty of them had to go to all of Greece, their print was all of Greece. The soldiers took 14 days. They wanted and left all, except for twelve remaining in the camp, the six diagnosed as positive and six others who did not want to leave. The soldiers came back yesterday. The licence has been completed and it was presented yesterday. One of them is positive, and this morning it's at '401' and it's re-controlling. If we are to be judged on the result, the result has justified the action. We have protected our staff and the staff are healthy with our own care, on our orders. My second point is that it is the military service that provides masks. In the 700 Military Factory, in Kopi, in Piraeus, it has prepared two hundred sixty-sixteen thousand masks and provides them to all units of the Greek Army. Furthermore, sixty-five thousand litres of disinfectant have been manufactured by ABY in Piraeus and this has been distributed to all units. So it's the military service that's looking after it. You said there's no heating and there's no hot water. Of course there's also heating and hot water. The unit has not accepted any complaints from the soldiers officially made. At the same time, I would like to mention here that the military service has long created outward structures and full transparency structures. If you type in your mobile "Master Support Office", it will immediately refer you to the relevant staff page. There you see that every soldier has the ability of anonymously or branded to enter and say his problem. These are recorded and controlled by committees, by experts, respond, talk to parents. At the same time, each parent receives a letter from the commander who says to him "Mr. Stefani, good morning. We have your son here. Please very much, my phone is this, if you want something you can respond to." I'll answer some other elements in my dentistry. I want to be in time. But I wanted to say this: you said a phrase, which after four decades in the Armed Forces really bothers me. 'The government has left the governors uncovered.' I would like to say with full knowledge what I say - and you know that I have knowledge - that at this time all defence issues are dealt with holisticly. Look at what's happening to the staff, look at what's going on in the material and look at the result that we have as Armed Forces. We are in place, strong and we are defending our borders. If the government hadn't taken care of it, then we wouldn't have been able to do it and we would have left it open. Thank you very much for giving me the opportunity to say it. Forgive my style, it's the passion that holds me. You know the appreciation I have of you. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, too. Mr Papapastasis has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u100	Mr President, thank you. Mr Minister, thank you for the clarifications. I am really pleased that the majority of the issues we have raised are confirmed. In other words, the movement in our view was not made in accordance with the scientific protocols, but also the dilemmas placed by the administration on the soldiers. Such dilemmas should not enter the soldiers, neither on their own, nor should the military have the infrastructure to cover the quarantine soldiers, nor the other issues we have said. First of all, the government does not question that it has taken measures. That's what was lacking, to remain inert. Of course, we will not reward it because it should take some measures which would be self-evident to protect the health of citizens, but it did not take it either. And that, in our view, also identifies the problem, which creates the dangerous environment that really concerns, in order not to use a more intense expression, the personnel of the Armed Forces, soldiers and permanents, but also their families. We, as a Communist Party of Greece since the first moment of the pandemic, have tabled - you know - a bar of questions but also proposals, realistic proposals, which come out of the good knowledge of the space that we have, the Armed Forces, and also through cooperation with experts. These proposals were generally ignored. The same has happened with the proposals of the Communist Party of Greece to deal with the pandemic - it is an emblematic observation - and outside the camp. We have raised problems and at the same time proposed solutions, we have proposed legislative amendments, but 'on the deaf side the door as you wish.' Let me remind you of specific cases, so that we do not speak without examples. Issues about 212 KIXNE, Xanthi Mobile Surgery Hospital, ELDYK, Greek power of Cyprus, issues relating to the security of the personnel of the Hellenic Navy in Skaramaga, Amphilialis, as well as to Arlonas and the Camp Mavroudi in Mytilini and Dalipi in Thessaloniki and the Camp Zeesi in Alexandroupolis, Assirou, etc. And recently, of course, also in Kos. We have protests from the same parents that soldiers had there. We have asked the Government to take immediate and substantial measures to protect the seamen and staff of the Hellenic Navy, with special attention to the crews of the warships and submarines. The government took no measures. The results are not going to be commented on right now, with the camera off. We have studied the documents of the Pan-Hellenic Federation of Military Associations of the WTO, but also of the Primary Military Unions belonging to its power, which have truly demonstrated and sent to all the political parties problems facing the officials of the Armed Forces. Based on this, we asked you questions about the displaced last year on border guarding in Evros, about their incomplete conditions of residence, without security against pandemic. That is what they were asking themselves to make public. Who's gonna question them? They also pointed out - and we put these questions to you - about the personnel who serves hot spots. They weren't given, and we asked for permissions to be granted due to the insult of certain coronary strains. We have asked questions about the problems that exist regarding the protection of the personnel of the Armed Forces and the Port Authority when transporting patients with a coronary, whether by floating or air. We have asked for what they themselves were so desperately screaming about, namely measures to protect them. This shows that there were genuine deficiencies in dealing with it. Minister, the government against the people does not accept its failure to deal with the pandemic, especially when this failure has thousands of dead, tens of thousands of crippled persons coming out of the ICMs, thousands of family tragedies and side victims. Even now, however, the Communist Party of Greece is asking to take measures, immediately measures that will relieve both the personnel of the Armed Forces and their families who are tested with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u102	Thank you very much. Every time I come to speak to Parliament, I am truly adept, because this is the temple of democracy and its operation, while at the same time it enables us to inform this people through us. You are wrong when you say that you are making proposals and suggestions. I would like to tell you that for today's reply, the Staff meets three times and more than twenty different documents have been published, so that we can come and respond to you transparently and consistently. So everything you say to us as a government is being studied in great depth. If an organisation is judged by its effectiveness the work of the Armed Forces and its presence so far and what it does for the country is judged not just to be effective, extremely effective, because we are giving a double struggle every day. One fight is to defend what we all love our country. And the second fight is to be healthy so that we can serve properly, and that is what we are doing. There are people on Evros, there are people on the rock islands, there are people on the islands, there are people on our ships, there are people on our aircraft, there are people everywhere who daily support the country. That could not be done if we are not effective. It's a mistake to say that the government was unable to deal with the pandemic. It is being treated in an excellent way. And I would also like to assure the Greek people, through us, of the following, that the members of the Armed Forces face the soul of each family, who is their child, as if they were their own, struggling, concerned, caring, serving each family, considering the responsibility for the period when their children serve the country. The Greek people must be sure of this, and of course the government is doing all they can to strengthen the governors in order to do their job properly. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u103	Thank you too, Minister. At this point we will have a short break to aerate the Chamber and come back in very few minutes for the questions concerning the Minister for Rural Development.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u104	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We move to the first under number 668/08-04-2021 of the first cycle of the SYRIZA MP - the Progressive Alliance Mr. Stavros Arachovitis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the subject: ‘Accounting and Control Agency for Community Aid for Guidance and Guarantee (OPEKEPE)’. Mr Arachovitis, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, what the country and the rural world have been experiencing in recent times is unprecedented, they are unprecedented situations. It is for the first time in the history of the creation of OPEKEPE that the basic aid, subsidies and direct payments have not been paid out as a whole, have not been repaid and there is no timeframe for it to be repaid. Here there is a great government dystomia in terms of administration to pay back the subsidies that had to be paid back in 2020, but at the same time there is a great concern about what is going to happen from now on. In addition to the subsidies due, there is also a characteristic inertia in order to clarify cases, such as the national reserve with the wonderful pastures of the New Democracy, which are also said by farmers, for what has been done so far and, of course, the responsibilities for this whole situation must at last be attributed, of course, to the analogy of Mr Vorides' previous minister and then to your own, so that we can also see what has happened over the last two years, that is to say, over the last two years. Because, as you can see, the issue of the technical consultant of the competition has evolved into a bridge of Arta. Also, in a bridge of Arta, and even worse, the invitation of the reception centres to recertify the old ones, the certification of new ones and the promotion of a coordinating body is being developed. We are observing a number of contradictory decisions, unbelievable relics that have not yet brought any results. The 15th of the month has passed, and the process is still in the air, despite your assurances. The agony, as you can see, peaks. And it peaks for one more reason, that other years, apart from the fact that developments had started, the farmer's card had also been activated. This year also lacks valuable liquidity from the farmer's card. All this is demonstrated by the successive resignations of two Presidents within a very short period of time. Now he's the third president of the OPEKEPE. This morbid climate in OPECE continues. That is why our first question - and here I would ask you to have a clear answer - is what the real reasons were, that is, why we have been unable to repay direct payments from 2020? When will these be repaid and why have the producers not yet received clear information about what you owe them and when it will be repaid? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mr Arachovitis, as I have repeatedly pointed out on every occasion, both the Government of the New Democracy and I personally are in this position to serve the Greek citizen, the Greek farmer in all difficulties. I am sure - and I know that personally - that your own concern is in the same direction. We all know very well - and you are right - how important the operation of the OPEKEPE is, since it is essentially responsible for the payments of six hundred and forty thousand beneficiaries. That is why we have stated the political will - and I have told you at our personal meeting - to deal with its chronic administrative problems, however important they have been in recent years. We are therefore working in this direction with four pillars of work. The first is that OPEKEPE exists and works for all beneficiaries. Without discrimination it supports those who support our country's agricultural production. Our aim is to pay aid in a timely, correct and transparent manner to all the Greeks who deserve it. Secondly, we must and try to find practical solutions to complex problems in order to work effectively, but also transparently and responsibly. Thirdly, we will never allow this 'never' - in private interests of any kind to stand in the way of the good of our farmers. And fourthly, we keep with choice any micro-party controversies. So let's see how the situation really has in relation to your questions. Since 1-1-2021, 319m euros have already been paid, while programming is until 30 June, on specific dates, another 352m euros have been made. The payment of the general aid goes on and on. Recently, on 23 March 2021, EUR 246 314 000 was paid to the beneficiaries' accounts for the applications for 2020. Part of this amount concerned additional payments for the basic aid scheme and green aid. Therefore, taking into account the advance payment in October 2020, the payments in December 2020 and the payment of 23-32021, the total net amount is EUR 989,198 for the basic payment and EUR 492,000 for green aid, 97% and 90% respectively for these two. The balance will be paid as provided for by the Community regulations and the national framework by 30 June 2021. Mr President, may I, because it is indeed important, give an overall answer to those of the farmers who are also concerned about these issues. In addition, payments for improvement plans, young farmers and other instruments continue unavoidably and are in progress, according to the flow of incoming payment files to the OPEKEPE. In particular, they are paid - perhaps today some of them - 8.5 million de minimis aid in peaches. By the end of this week, basic aid is paid to the rest, in figs, cotton, greenhouses, flowering, while the remaining basic payments begin to be paid on the Great Monday and will be completed by the Great Wednesday. It is therefore demonstrated that, not only is there no inability to pay, but that the planning of payments is normally progressing consistently and responsibly. I think we should stop trying - not you, all of which are concerned with the subject - to create impressions for other reasons and to think about the anxiety of all farmers, who think that there may be problems that really do not exist. With regard to the issue of the functioning of the OPEKEPE, we are doing everything in our power to ensure precisely that it operates uninterruptedly, but with interest to the farmer rather than serving other interests. Since the first time I took up the duties of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, I have been called upon to face up to administrative errors and delays in taking decisions in the past few months, but also to deal with a number of judicial actions at the expense of the organization, which had literally made him non-functional and effectively blocked from everywhere. Following marathon meetings and genuine efforts throughout this period, which were intended to leave the agency from the crisis, decisions were made, always respecting the provisions of the law, towards stabilisation on the one hand and the launching of a reformist real policy on the other, which aims, as I have told you, and in particular, at Parliament, the technical and operational autonomy and adequacy of the Agency, namely the defence of the public interest by means of it. Confirmation of the above is the fact that the procedure for submitting the single application for aid was normally initiated, as I had announced here in another question, on 15 April. Furthermore, on the subject of the technical adviser, which is that we are also concerned and troubled over the last few years, I would like to inform you that, while always respecting the rules of legality and transparency, the procedure for the award of two tenders has been initiated, according to the flow of the work of the Agency and the requirements of the European Commission to cover the remainder of 2021 and then the 2022 procedure and the payments needed within 2023. This ensures the smooth and uninterrupted operational continuity of OPEKEPE, overcoming delays and obstacles arising from the architecture of the public administration and legal retaliations, unfortunately, of candidate contractors. My position is clear and I repeat it once again. We will not allow anyone to jeopardise the functioning of the OPEKEPE, referring to business or other interests, because that is how it compromises the payments of the sixty thousand beneficiaries, our farmers. I will not allow anyone to jeopardise the survival of their own and family. We, as a political leadership and as a government, will not allow that to happen again. We'll do exactly what it takes for the body to function properly. And in this effort I am sure that you too, because I know your sensitivity, will help us so that over the next few years the organization can function properly, that we can overcome the obstacles resulting from the companies' conflicts and, of course, that we can proceed - because this process has already begun - to close all these cases in your question in connection with irregularities of the past. That is what we will do, and I think that our political leadership together, but also those who deal with these issues from the other parties, we will be in the same direction, because we all want the good of the farmers in the end. Because there are no ideological differences. There is the essence of the needs of our farmers and their coverage by the Greek public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u108	Mr. Arachovitis has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, apart from the good intentions that no one can question, all the anxiety has been and is the smooth payment of subsidies, the defence of the public interest and, in any case, the sound management of Community funds. Of course, you have not answered the reasons why, as you said here, the basic aid and green aid will be repaid six months later. You said 30-6-2021. It will be repaid six months later on the planned date that was just before Christmas always every year. I understand all the problems that have arisen and you received when you took over the Ministry's leadership, as you explained them to us. However, we must note this. All the interim judgments of the courts, as well as of the Prosecutors' Review Authority, were against the decisions of the OPEKEPE administration, which led to a break-up of the leaderships of OPEKEPE. Let me remind you of the two most recent, the 29-3-2021 provisional decision of the Proceedings Review Authority for the technical consultant and the 74-2021 provisional decision of the Proceedings Review Authority again on the final invitation to the PSOs and the management body. This shows the second cycle of questions, which is whether the final procedure for the certification of CSMs is legal, indeed. We have an invitation to recertify existing and certified new CSRs and to certify a coordinating body, as we have seen from the Proceedings Review Authority, which had been filed, regardless of whether it was, for other reasons, withdrawn. We therefore have the question of what is going to happen with the new CSRs which have applied for certification in this process. You mentioned last week that you are recertifying the existing ones. But what about the new ones? It's in the same invitation. They have submitted the documents requested to them and they are waiting to see whether they will start or not. Because in your last decision you say that recertification is in line with the notice. You didn't download the notice. The proclamation didn't come down. So the new declarations reception centres that have applied, their application is in force. You decided to re-certify the existing ones, but you did not say a word about the certification of new ones, while you know well that more than a hundred and twenty CCTs are waiting for an answer right now. Apart from that, a response must be given here as to what will be the final date to be chosen by the country for completing the IACC application procedure. Because yes, very recently, the European Commission gave the possibility - from 26 March - to the countries, to the Member States, to choose that date, but the country should set a date. If this date is too far beyond 15 May, you can understand that the advance payment and repayment of subsidies will go back. This is particularly critical at the time when farmers are in great need. So we would also expect a clear answer here as to what you intend to be the end date for the country. That's what we're waiting for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Arachovitis, I am pleased that you have obviously been covered by the specific answers I gave you in the agony of our farmers and the beneficiaries of the OPECE, because you have returned to your dentistry, setting out the legal issues that have arisen and the appeals made. So I feel that our first dialogue was essential. As far as the second one is concerned, you are indeed right. I too have been deeply upset, and I have been in a very difficult position, all this process which I have come to manage in the last two, three months, since I have had the honour of taking over the leadership of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. As you know, OPEKEPE is an independent agency - and I as such want to see it - under the supervision of the Ministry. That is why we are trying to give the political coverage of the reform that I mentioned before and for which I am sure you too agree, namely to strengthen the services of OPEKEPE and thereby defend the public interest. I do not want to get into the process and to give our dialogue an analysis of the legal issues that have arisen. However, I say to you that, first of all, there are no appeals which create obstacles and problems in the functioning of the agency. As I analysed before, payments are made. We have moved in full legitimacy for this whole time precisely to defend the organisation on the one hand and, on the other, to enable the beneficiaries to make their applications and to obtain their subsidies. And that's what we're going to do. As you can see, we need a special effort to be able, on the basis of the burdens of the past, to manage all this situation which has been afflicting political leadership in the past. In particular - and there to avoid concern - the final dates will be on 22 June. Tomorrow I will sign this decision. So we know our final date is 22 June. Also, as I said a few weeks ago here in Parliament's Chamber, it opened on 15th of the month - that is, last week - normally the date for applications. At the same time - as I have said - payments are made. In this context of normal operation, I hope that there will be no further problems. Even if they arise, however, we will be here to try to solve them, always looking at the great picture of the organisation's modernisation, its efforts to strengthen it at all levels and to resolve all these strange situations and assumptions that have existed in previous years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to read a communication. The Standing Committee on Economic Affairs submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "State aid to businesses and non-profit-making bodies for natural disasters, urgent arrangements to support the economy, supplementary state budget and pension regulation". We will now go to the next up-to-date questions. And because today we have the opening of the report on Freedom! In the Greek Parliament, two centuries later, and there is a formal sitting of the Parliament in the presence of the President of the Republic, a warm request to the ministers, but also to colleagues to be in time, because the Chamber must be delivered on 5 rather than to arrange for the event. We are moving forward and are now going to discuss together the two questions raised in the frost. It is the second question, with number 676,12-2021, of the Member of Parliament, Ilias of the Change Movement Mr Michael Katrin to the Minister of Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Signant damage to the crops of Elijah from the recent glacier" and the fourth question under number 683-14-2021, of MP for the Second Cycle of Thessaloniki, of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr. Ioannis Delis, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Differences from frost crops to fruit crops of the Regional Unit (EPP) Pellas, Regional Unit (EPP)). Imathia and the Amyntaios region’. They're both referring to the same subject but to different laws, of course. They will be discussed at the same time, without affecting the rights of speakers in their speaking time, pursuant to the provision in paragraph 4 of Rule 131 of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Katrinis has the floor for his prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u113	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, in desperation there are indeed the producers of Elijah and the rest of the country, of course, since, after the continuing drop in product prices over the last three years, after the loss of income due to COVID and even two and a half months after the first official response of the Ministry of Rural Development, there has been no compensation for the producers. And after all this, the glacier came to achieve a total blow to some crops. We had the first frost on March 26th. Just ten days ago, a second glacier came to finish the hopes of the raisin producers, even for a small production this year in the villages of all the former Municipality of Oleni, in Havari and in other regions of Elias, after burning what was left to the vines, causing damage to up to 100% of the crops, which will affect the production of next year as well. And that makes the situation even worse. Similar damages were made in early watermelon crops both in the area of Agios Elias and in the area of Eleikon Campos. The President of ELGA in an official statement said that farmers will be compensated in full even if they have not yet gone to valuers to see the size of the damage, with the speed of the compensation being literally, Minister, vital to the survival of thousands of producers and Elias, but I imagine in the rest of the country. Of course, the first assessments of the damages all over Greece - because we had damages both in Thessaly and in Macedonia - from the last glacier mention at least EUR 200 million when the ELGA budget has entered 170 million for compensation all over 2021, which you understand is causing reasonable concern to Elias' producers and not just. So you ask: First of all, what is the timetable for the compensation to be granted to farmers in the Elijah Prefecture for the damages suffered by the recent frost? And secondly - and please let us know - if the compensation reaches 200 million from the frost of the last ten days and, as I have said, on the basis of the ELGA budget, how do you intend to strengthen the agency so that farmers can be paid directly and in full? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u114	Mr. Delia, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u115	Thank you very much, Mr President. As the situation has been shaped, Minister, after the last interdependent ices, at the moment - and I am starting backwards, Mr President - the main and immediate point is to give advances from the ELGA to those producers whose crops have been destroyed by the frost. And these aren't very few. We just got an image from Elias. It's almost all over the country. This is the immediate and the main in our view. When that question was tabled, there was only the frost on 24, 25 and 26 March. But then another frost emerged on 9 April, which caused catastrophes in many parts of the country. So what we will say - all right, and all that is written in our written question, Mr Minister - is, of course, about northern Greece, particularly the Prefectures of Pella, Imathia and Florina, but they have more general effect in all cases of natural disaster compensation. So the frost that hit the area there, Pella in particular, Imathia and Amyntian, was very heavy, and it is enough to tell you that in Giannitsa the temperature reached up to 4 degrees - at the end of March we are talking now - and the damage to apricots and nectarines was universal, great damage caused to the crops of peaches, plums, early blossoms, but also to the cherries, while the damage caused by kiwitches, which are at that particular stage in which the eyes rise. The ELGA now comes here and activates its regulation, and in particular the first cut in its regulation, and says that because the cherry trees were at a stage before blossom, that is, they had not opened the petals of the flowers, to make a little plantology, so on the basis of its regulation these producers are not entitled to compensation. First cutter. Let's go to other crops now. Although promises were made that they will be compensated, we must say here, for the rest of the world - farmers know it - what happens, that the compensation will not, unfortunately, cover, and at best, and in the event that ELGA and the government claim, they will not cover their losses. And you know why? Because the compensation is not calculated, Mr President, on the basis of the actual loss of production, but on the basis of the guaranteed value of production, i.e. at whatever value it is insured. You understand that because this value most often, not to say always, is much less than the real value, the amounts that farmers end up getting are very little. So we ask you, Minister, once again, to raise the question of direct aid, the immediate advance to all farmers affected by the frost, what measures will your Government take to ensure that, after taking this advance, the estimates and records of damages to all trees, both in Pella and in Imathia, and everywhere, we say that they will be compensated fairly and in good time, Minister, farmers - and the next question on 'early' in particular - for 100% of the losses suffered, to suspend the payments of these farmers who have been affected by banks, taxes, etc. And anyway, we think that we have now reached a technological level that science and society can not only make progress, but take measures and deal with hail and ice, using technological developments. What are you going to do about all this and, above all, what are you going to do about the immediate aid, about the immediate advance, about the direct allowance that these farmers will have to receive?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u116	Thank you, Mr. Delis. Mr Minister, you have the floor for answering both colleagues, because they refer to different laws, and that will be the case.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u117	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mr Katrin, Mr Delis, thank you for your questions, because they are indeed timely and give me the opportunity to express the views of our Government on the glacier which has hit almost all the continent on 24, 26 and 27 March and recently, in April again. We arrived in Elias, even in the Peloponnese, and of course central and western Macedonia, most of which concern Mr Delis, were affected. We are well aware of the problem that has arisen. From the first moment on, the entire government and the Prime Minister himself have been informed and invented on the problem and you know that we have the political will to give a comprehensive, immediate and just solution. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, accompanied by the speaker, visited the previous Saturday, the other day, Corinthia and there we found fields affected by the frost. The Prime Minister spoke with producers, local government actors and expressed his support for farmers by explaining and setting out that there will be universal care on the part of the state. After that, this morning we had a meeting with the head of the Treasury so that we could map the next steps, which I would like to tell you in reply to the questions. Firstly, all the damages, without the reservations you have made indirectly before that ELGA, Mr Delis, can be compensated quickly in the time that has to be done with justice and efficiency. In other words, there will be a network of protection to every producer affected by the glacier phenomenon. Secondly, a real picture of the damage - and I think you are aware of this, because you are dealing with agricultural issues - and so, a timetable - for the payment of compensation, we will be able to get about in the second quarter of May, when fruitfulness will have been virtually completed and we will be able to know the exact damage. Thirdly, the entire state mechanism has already been mobilised since the first moment - and you know that well - in all the laws that have been affected. The ELGA auditors’ workshops have been in the affected areas since the first moment with their entire permanent staff. An additional hundred and six-pipe recruitments were made from the relevant list of ELGA approved by the ASPA and at the same time requests for additional staff have already been submitted, where necessary, to be immediate and fair, as I said before, the recognition of losses. It will be important to ensure that the damages per field are properly recorded - with caution and practicability - so that there is no case in which producer damage is not recorded and, on the other hand, that any scientists who will seek to benefit - and I am sure that none of you want to do so - without harming them to gain the benefits and to deprive them of others who have actually been harmed. To this end, we ask for your assistance as an Opposition, as we all do. We have no reason to encourage pillaging requests, but we need faith and accurate imprinting of reality, so that we can be fair on the next day of payment. That's critical. It is always critical, but it is very critical today because of the very tight financial frameworks and we must definitely compensate to the fullest extent all those affected. The absolute household in ELGA's finances over the last two years, which I think is undeniable, the speed in dealing with all the most recent natural disasters and the unprecedented payment to a dose of total compensation for the damages of 2020 are a guarantee for the effective functioning of the Agency, leaving in the past the known delays and suffering suffered by all our farmers. Fourthly, I would like to make it clear that repetitive glacier, indeed a unique phenomenon in the last 15 years, is an extreme weather phenomenon and as such will be dealt with through the ELGA framework with whatever state aid it needs, but with legality and efficiency. Fifthly, I have already taken the initiative to communicate and cooperate with my counterparts, Ministers for Agriculture and Rural Development in Europe, because many southern countries and Central Europe have been affected by this year's glaciers, so that we can have a common response at European Union level to claim and then find funds for the compensation of this phenomenon, to try to find more money to compensate the producers affected throughout Greece. In this we also want the assistance of your own Members in the European Union to act together as a lever of pressure in the European fora. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government of Mrs Mitsotakis is trying - and I think she has done so to a very large extent - to implement her announcements in full. We keep our commitment, as we did last time, that we will not leave those affected by the frost without help. We build in this way - this is our attempt - indiscriminate relationships with Greek farmers. We are applying what we had as a central slogan that we must all move together in this effort, deal with all the things that the pandemic has brought into the sensitive rural area and there are many of them. That is what we are trying to do with the tight financial frameworks that we have. At the same time, we must be able to deal with severe weather phenomena, which all our farmers and our farmers are, unfortunately, still, in spite of technology, my dear fellow Member, and be able to move forward together, coming out of this crisis, in which the last steps, the last measures are in order to get into a development phase. This is the effort that we are making to the Ministry of Rural Development and in this direction any thoughts you have and possibilities to help ELGA, if you have any ideas that we have not thought about, so that we can meet the needs that have been created as quickly as possible, I am completely open to discuss them here and in private whenever you want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, too. Mr. Katrinis has the floor for his denunciation.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u119	Minister, first of all, you will allow me to correct you because you spoke about the renting of the ELGA - 'we have housed the ELGA' - you said exactly - saying that the household of ELGA began with PASOK government's Law 3877/2010, which New Democracy did not vote for. It is the law under which today you can draw extra funding to cover damage and costs, to tell it the way it is. Second, you put the cubit too high. I was glad to hear that you were going to specialized records per field, because that is indeed a matter that concerns those who have been seriously affected by the weather years. Of course, you spoke about speed and efficiency, but at the same time that you said so, you raised what you described and presented as the political will of the government, the Prime Minister, by saying that in the second quarter of May we will have safe assessments and you are not now able to give us an even awkward timetable when compensation will be paid. You have not responded to what I have put to you as to whether you have a bad estimate, too, of the amount of compensation. I am also in this connection, because there is a delay in compensation in general, Minister. We've been through it, I've said it before. In addition to the COVID compensation, in addition to the products which Mrs Arabatzis, here on 5 February, said that they would be compensated, we have arrived today, April 19, money has not been seen by the farmers of Elias in watermelon, potatoes and tomato and cucumber, the greenhouses. Salads, horticulture, citrus fruits, no voice or hearing. Do we not finally know: is the Ministry of Rural Development going to compensate for this? Yes or no? It has not been clear to us that the people who have suffered damage because of COVID, but also some crops now because of the ice cream, will be compensated. I think it is a problem that according to the estimates - at least my information is saying - the damages to the cost of the ice-cream exceed this year's budget for compensation, and that is why you did not give a convincing answer. You also know very well that 70% of producers do not pay premiums, but it empowers the Agency to draw the contributions from their accounts when subsidies are in place in October and December. This means that if you - I wholeheartedly wish it, because it is a matter of survival for the farmers of Elijah and not just - go to a speed of compensation, thousands of farmers will be at risk of not being compensated, since in the period of payment they will not have paid premiums and will not be insurance-related information. So what do I suggest? To bring legislation similar to that applied to the 'January' in relation to the compensation of insurance contributions, so that we do not have farmers who have not paid the premiums and are not entitled to compensation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Alternatively, in the case of farmers who have been destroyed by the frost, you could also consider compensation for the premiums when it comes to compensation. You did not tell us whether you would proceed with the retroactive financing of ELGA with the 20% of the law for the years 2016 and 2017, what you did this year, or whether you would make advances per acre on the basis of the IACC declarations, as three regions affected and said by my dear colleague Mr. Delis. I also think that in these cases of producers affected by the frost, and you say that they have suffered a total catastrophe, there should be a suspension of tax, insurance and banking obligations. We're not talking about horizontal application. You have decided on farmers not to be affected. However, those who are really affected - and you see that - are certified by the ELGA assessors with the first assessments - you cannot exclude them from the relief measures which are for all the sectors affected by the economy. So, Minister, I think you should soon bring us concrete decisions, but, please, too, and a timetable for the producers in my region to know not only, but also throughout the country, when they will be able to make these allowances, which is a living condition for most of them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, Mr. Catherine. Mr. Delia, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, Mr President. After the last glaciers, the interdependent, Minister, and after the extensive disasters spread throughout the country, the picture that exists - and you know it very well - is that the damages are really huge and that, in order to respond to the damage caused by these farmers, its funding should be strengthened. That is what we have asked you to do, and that is a very creative proposal to you, since you are also calling for proposals. So, please support the state corps of ELGA so that the advances of this aid can be given immediately, because you have responded to us with a general point of view that there will be a protection net - fine, that does not say anything, it is very general and very theoretical - but you were very specific about the records, that you will first expect the fruitage to become, that is, in mid-May, after a month, to begin the assessment of damage. Ask me May to eat a clover. That is what you now tell people who are really in despair. As for the early retirement, all right, we all know in this place, we know that even at the moment there are previous years' compensation pending and the next question here is also the issue of George Lambroulis's question to you. We therefore insist that you make an advance on these farmers. And, of course, something has to be avoided - I have raised a glimpse of the prototype, I am going to be a little more detailed, Mr President - in relation to the ELGA regulation, which is nothing but a 'block' of cuts, which reduces these allowances to which farmers are entitled. Let me get some examples. It is not just that damage from the blooming is covered, that is, not the buds. They open the petals and then the damage is calculated. It is also based on Article 9 of the ELGA Regulation that the damage covered is not covered by 100%, but is covered by 30% or more, namely 70%, and by 88% of the 70%, i.e. about 62%. That's the highest level the compensation can get. And as I said in my prototype, the third cut is that it is not the actual damage, i.e. the damage to production, but the insurance price of that damage. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. What needs to be done, to finally get farmers - and they have been asking for a long time - is 100% of the compensation they deserve after all, is that the ELGA should be supported, generously financed from the state budget, finally! The tactics of all the members of government in recent years have been known for the underfunding of this organisation. Of course, as you can see, Minister, there must be fair compensation. Compensation of 100% with such cutters can't exist. They must be abolished. That's what we're asking. And don't tell us that the government gave you some millions, not the government's obligations to show them as a favor. It is your obligation, and based on the law you have passed, that the government strengthens this Agency, the ELGA, to respond. The accumulated debts of the governments, Mr President, in ELGA exceed 350 million and there is still much to be paid by the governments to cover these debts. Of course, we must inform you - although I imagine you already know - that the farmers who are in this ugly, tragic situation and live really hours of agony are not sitting with their hands crossed. They're organized. There are already mobilizations throughout the country to claim their rights, and they are doing so! So give ELGA money. Give advance payments to "run" quickly all these issues and get people the compensation they deserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, Mr. Delis. Mr Minister, you have the floor for your second language as a whole and as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not doing thanks to anyone. We do our job and we have the same social sensitivity, we have the same sensitivity to Greek farmers as you do. I would say that this sensitivity trade seems to me to have no meaning and no place anymore. Obviously, everyone who has obligations in this life also has rights and our role as a state is to cover the needs of all those insured and all those who have accepted the memory of the weather, as has happened with our farmers lately. I think that in the context of the budgets in our country we have tried to give producers money, in the agricultural world, where they had the greatest loss of income. We have done this with direct payments and intervention. We have done so by transferring money, as the European Union allowed us and as much as the ceiling allowed us, by transferring money from the 2% ceiling from the Rural Development Programme, and we have put our farmers in the repayable advance, as well as the other professionals. So we are doing what we can in the financial frameworks, which are suffocating, but we are trying to manage them, and above all we have that power because on the one hand we have a proper and fair programming, and on the other hand we have built a credibility capital over the past two years, and fortunately our country can and is lending at almost negative rates and we have a cash-flow. And, of course, we are doing this because we did not hear the anti-politics position that was telling us last May to give what we had in front, because you understand that if we had followed this strategy, we would all be destroyed today. In this context, therefore, we would very much like, Mr Delis, to give too much money and everything ahead. We consider, however - and this is the right thing to do - that we have talked and constantly are in contact both in northern Greece and in Thessaly and in those regions of the Peloponnese - that we need to spend this time in most of the trees, to see the size of the disaster. We said that from the very beginning, and you would do so if you were in the government. In this context, we will move and wherever we can and as quickly as we can, always respecting the law.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u124	Give them something forward, an advance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u125	Because as far as the thoughts you are thinking are concerned, that is to say, that we should finance the ELGA state budget, as much as you want, but we also want to find that money. We must, however, do so in the right and legitimate way, so that we do not get involved in situations that will take us back too and fines in the country, as they have in the past. I will tell you, although you caused me not to say, that we did indeed support ELGA with 34m euros in July 2020 and we secured EUR 67m for the damages from 'January'. And that does not add party points to the New Democracy, but adds credibility to the state. Indeed, payments were made in very short periods of time, many times and faster than some expected. Obviously, there may be some injustices in all cases, and that is where we are trying to improve them and correct them. In any case, however, the intention is given and our tools are concrete. So I will ask you once again not to escape and not to ask for things that cannot be implemented simply because you feel that you are in the security of Anti-Population and you will never be called to implement them. Is that right? This is very important, because this is how you do not offer service to Greek farmers. On the contrary, you think - not you personally - or rather those who do that think they produce political benefits. Finally, all they do is create a bulb that ultimately does not benefit anyone and is not for the benefit of farmers. Dear Mr Katrin, I know that you have not given the money for potatoes and you are right. This is an amount that has been approved and it is an amount that we expect it to be released from the Ministry of Finance. I told you before, we would all like the money to have been given faster. But the economic situation, the financial situation in which we live and in this context, and the Ministry of Finance, is making the best effort to cover to the greatest extent those who are being put. In both northern Greece, where there are indeed these problems, as well as throughout the rest of Greece and Elias, what we will do is that in the next few days we will further specify the measures on the basis of the possibilities that the Ministry of Finance has, as we did to 'Janus' and you have seen it and know it has been done. So we will try here too, although it is a different situation here, because they have not been hurt by machinery, they have not been affected by houses, we do not have this total disaster that we had there. We will make the same effort here, so that, with the data we have and within the framework - and I say again - we can cover the needs of Greek farmers sooner. Do a little patience again, I ask you not to create tensions which are ultimately at the expense of farmers themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u126	We continue with the next and final question for the Minister, Mr Lebanese, on the third question under number 682-12-2021, on the second question of the F; Vice-Chairman of the Parliament and MP Larissa of the Communist Party of Greece, George Lambroulis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Direct restoration of injustice and compensation for farmers - peaches producers of the Larissa Prefecture for the damage suffered since the 2020 glacier." Here, Mr Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u127	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, after 13 months of waiting and going to compensate for the frost - last year's glacier - the peaches growers in Larissa, found out what? That their compensation has been cut to up to 55%. Problem. How did it come up? By a clear mistake of the IACC - by extension of the ELGA - the services say. In particular, those producers who had declared in the OSCE declaration as over-priced varieties of peaches, but not under the heading ‘excessive’, but under the name of the variety, as indicated in the question, were compensated for by 0,32 minutes per kilogram in peaches and 0,43 minutes in nectarines instead of 0,68 minutes per kilogram provided by the ELGA for the over-priced varieties. We therefore consider - and this is why the question has been asked - that the administration of the ELGA and, respectively, the leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development should immediately correct the mistake and, of course, fair compensation to farmers for the damages of 2020 by the glaciers, namely the peach producers in Larissa. With the question - and I am closing with it, Mr President - we are calling for the mistake to be restored, Minister, in order that farmers can be compensated for the damage they suffered from the frost last year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u128	And we thank the Vice-President for the time. Minister, you have the floor for your answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u129	Dear Mr Vice-President, I think you are convinced of the good intentions of my own and of the sincere mood at all times, but above all here, within Parliament in parliamentary control. I told you before, in reply to other questions, that our compass is the aid of the Greek producers. I have asked for the specific issue you raised with your question and received the information from the ELGA, from his services and his president, so that I can answer that. According to official information - because I fear that we have a mix-up here - each producer submits the single crop declaration together with the application for the activation of the single payment entitlements submitted to the OPEKEPE, as we said before, and with the same time as the deadline for submission. The producer has a right under the legislation in force to submit only one single crop declaration annually, which shows the entire agricultural holding, and this declaration is binding on the price of the compensation that he may have to take if a matter arises, as it was in Larissa in this case. The producer after the declaration by the IACC is obliged to check which category his crops are declared, i.e. the description, price and contribution to the ELGA, so that in the event of system error the necessary corrections are made. On the basis of the statement he makes and the payment to the ELGA, he will also have the corresponding treatment if this disaster occurs. Depending on the variety declared by each producer, the corresponding insurance contribution is also equivalent before we go to the compensation. As far as this is concerned, therefore, what I understand from the information I have seen is that the code in question and therefore the possibility for producers to declare the varieties to which you refer as over-premises requires the payment at the same time of the more precise 50% insurance contribution. In other words, the producers who have chosen and declared the special cheap insurance contribution did not receive the high compensation of EUR 0.68 per kilo to which you refer, but which they received to Larissa again, those who had arranged to declare the crops in the largest insurance category, of course, by paying for the first stage and more money than the previous ones. Those who were insured at low cost received compensation corresponding to the regulation, namely EUR 0,32 per kilo of peaches and EUR 0,43 of nectarines. Those on the other hand who paid high premiums, I think, in a fair way, received the compensation of EUR 0.68 per kilo and the repayment of their lost income. As you can see, this is the way I have available evidence, from the point of view, no corrections can be made at this time. This procedure has been closed, which is not even for ELGA, but for OPEKEPE. In any case, if that is the problem - which I understand, that is - at this time I cannot see how we can turn back on time and do the statement process at the beginning. Of course, what we need to do is to pay attention and to inform farmers properly about the next phase and what they will say this year. But for the mistake, which has been made - which, from what I have at my disposal, is not about the OPEKEPE or ELGA - at this time, although I have tried to think and discussed with the service actors, I cannot find a solution to the problem that you are describing. If there is something that we need to see a little more with or some of the producers you are referring to, we need to see it. But if it is the way I describe it, unfortunately I do not see a solution this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Vice President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u131	Thank you, Mr President. In fact, what you say, Minister, at least according to your protology, is that what you pay, you get. What they paid, they received compensation, depending on the level of insurance paid by farmers. That's what happened. You said that those who paid more, large sums, on the basis of the premiums and the statement they made, received a 'h' amount of compensation.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u132	As the regulation says.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u133	Those who had paid lower premiums, based on the product, took less. However, in the second case for farmers, the question is that they will have a huge loss of income, which will not be replaced. So it is a question that needs to be resolved. And after all, why would there be this misfortune in the information systems? When the farmer goes to say, he knows very well the variety he has put on peaches in this regard, and whether or not he is too premature. So it's the farmer's fault - and I'm not saying that you said that, a question I ask you to think about it - when he goes and says that 'I put the same variety of peach' and while he knows that it's too early, the system does not recognize it as a supreme one, because it has in its programme the title 'excessive one', without recognising that the over-precursors are five, six, seven possible varieties of peaches? So, is it the premium or is it the failure of the system that threw them out, so that they are not compensated, as we believe they should, and as we mentioned in the question? And let me tell you the other thing. Why not give this group of farmers who were affected last year and who received this reduced compensation an additional state support to respond? Look at the issue of disasters - because it was discussed earlier by colleagues here, on the basis of the ice - in the production, respectively, of the ELGA, of compensation, all these are issues of claiming and fighting farmers and farmers respectively, for many years now. Whether a hail, a drought, ice cream, rainfall or similar plant and animal diseases accompany permanently the producers. All governments are making promises, but they are not doing anything, leaving the agricultural world completely helpless and at the mercy of weather phenomena. And when the disasters come, they rush to yield them to the weather phenomena, to justify their unjustified responsibilities, creating similar suffocating conditions in the direction of the survival of the bio-Palestian farmers, who are gradually driven by the other measures of course taken, to the gradual eclipse of their land. And we ask in particular: Is the change of the ELGA regulation or is it not a fair request? We say it is. Farmers have been asking for years to insure and compensate production and capital at 100% immediately, just and of course all the risks of natural, diseases and go by saying. I shall now refer to the answer you have given to the two colleagues beforehand. Could the government have given it to - I do not remember what year, because this was done - the amount it had to pay as a government recognizing that the State, the governments over time, had to pay those few - even we say - 35, 40, 50 million which, on the occasion of the 'January'. But look. Eleven years now, since 2011, all the governments that passed successively decided and implemented the fact that there has been no single cent in the ELGA from the state grant, which is based only on the farmers' contribution from the premium payments. So the state owes it. The realistic what is it? We say that farmers anyway have a uncovered shop, so farmers a lifetime, and especially small and medium-sized, small and medium-sized, bio-patients are left out of their way? And, of course, now on the occasion of frost-cream all over the country, there has been huge catastrophes on too many crops. I've asked a question, he'll come sometime, we'll talk about it. See now in the Tyrnavos region - Damasios, which were affected by the earthquake, these villages with huge damage to their homes do not have houses at the moment and on the other hand the glacier completely destroyed the crops. ELGA says it, 100% destroyed the vineyards. These people, how will they survive? Here's the ELGA, here's the state funding how it should be given. Is the request for a public body fair or is it not? Is ELGA a public body with sufficient public funding rather than relying on farmers' insurance contributions? At the same time, should the ELGA not be staffed with staff in order to speed up, speed up and deal with all the estimates and compensation respectively of farmers? Is the demand that the necessary projects be carried out in infrastructures to ensure the safety of production from the natural risks? Respectively, anti-military works will be done and said. Is it really distorting, because this is what has been said, the perception of the lower guaranteed prices on the products that farmers claim, so that they can stay on their land and on their homes, so that they and their families can produce and live? It's not insane. But look. You said that. European Union, pragmatism. That is the policy, and that is the strategy of all governments. It's not a personal matter. You are following this policy. I don't give, or he'll fine me. That's it. So, here, they have to draw conclusions that have been drawn, but even more intensely. Our farmers have to draw conclusions who is responsible for what policies, what governments and the European Union respectively. And of course, their struggle is one-way, because through the race they have won even in recent years what they have won. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u134	Minister, you have the floor. Now let's look at the clock and let's be short, it's a warm request, because we're already before the gates of the event.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u135	Dear Mr Lambroulis, Mr Vice-President, you know how much I respect you for our previous cooperation when I was a parliamentary representative. And of course I respect your social sensitivity not only as a politician, but also as a doctor you have obviously chosen in your life to serve the common good. I do not want us to go back so far and discuss today whether our liberal ideology and an ideology has been more supportive of the rural world or whether the communist tradition has supported, especially those difficult times and later, the rural economy and farmers. I understand that you mean that if we were not in the European Union, there could be a much better insurance system for farmers. That is what I understand with what you said in general, in politics. We disagree. But that is the field of confrontation in politics and you can probably convince the majority of the Greek people that we must leave the European Union. It is true that you are saying so, because everyone else, who is considered to be representatives of the so-called left, do not do so. But that is where we have a basic difference. We have chosen to belong to this family. We believe that it has benefited the greatest, particularly the rural world, from our admission to the European Community at the time and in the European Union today and we believe - and this is a basic principle of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis - that our country must also follow the institutional process and not constantly try to escape with evil passages, which at the end cost us very expensive. And when they cost us - in Greece, I mean - the Greek taxpayer finally comes back and pays the fines. So what you're saying, that is, we're not giving enough money from the state budget to the ELGA. We tried and gave what we could, based on regulations, and we should always move on the...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u136	Minister, excuse me. Sorry to interrupt. I'm not behaving like this, but 11 years with a political decision by the governments, you weren't you...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u137	It didn't happen.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u138	No, it wasn't. It wasn't financed. State funding has stopped in ELGA...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u139	And we did, that's what you say.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u140	But you once gave me a single 'Janu'...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u141	Yeah, that's what I'm trying to tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u142	And I've been telling you 11 years for 35 to 40 million.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u143	We don't have time...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u144	I get it. What I'm saying...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u145	We don't have time. We'll have to not discuss any questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u146	What I'm saying is that what we did, we did it in favour of farmers. But we did so in a legal way, which I can explain at some point, so that we do not have the time for the next questions. And that is what we will try to do at every moment needed by these natural disasters, again legally. In this context, too, we want to move on. As far as the particular part we said before is concerned, I think we agreed on what the problem was. Now, what do you think? To ignore the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament and to give other money than those which have been specifically insured. This can't be done. Even if we wanted to, that is, we cannot do it right now, because we will be illegal and I imagine that you are not asking us to illegally. You're asking us to meet people's needs. In the area of Larissa, which has suffered the multiple blows, it is true - and you are right to express it - that we must all have a particular sensitivity. And that is what our Government is doing, we do it by every means we have and we will try to cover these problems, but I repeat in a legal way and as it defines the framework of the European Union, in which we belong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u147	Thank you, too. If there is not a case where I do not feel well, but it will also not be right, to suspend and not speak by a colleague, a warm request for the Minister to be brief in his replies, but also for colleagues to be specific in time. Next is the third with number 662/5-2021, a top question for the F' Vice President of Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The unacceptable decision of the Government to transform the “Thriasian” Hospital into a hospital of a disease". Mr. Lambroulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u148	Thank you, Mr President. It's time, I get it. But I will now speak as a Member. It's not the MPs' fault. To the object now. The question concerns the government's decision to turn the ‘Thriasian’ Hospital into a hospital of a disease. You all know very well and those who hear that the West Attica is a densely populated area. There is a great concentration of the working class there, of poor people's strata, with many large industrial units, with a burden respectively on the health of the majority of the population and on the environmental impact. For a few months now, it has been in the'red', hit by the coronary pandemic, due to the lack of effective preventive measures and measures to shield public health units in the region. The government decided to turn the "Thriasio" Hospital into a hospital of a disease, a decision, in our opinion, dangerous, because it actually flies out of hospitals patients with other illnesses, and even chronic patients who do treatment in this hospital. In this direction there are the reactions of the inhabitants, the self-employed, the workers of the wider region, the Western Attica, who are really fighting and are literally on the foot, making racing mobilisations, as I said, to withdraw this decision. So, Mr President, the questions to the Minister are: First, what measures will the Ministry, the Government, take to withdraw immediately the decision to convert the ‘Thriasian’ Hospital to a hospital of a disease and, of course, all patients to have access to this hospital for their care? Secondly, what measures will it take to shield and serve the “Thriasian” Hospital and the Western Attica Health Centers with permanent staff of all specialties and the permanentisation of contractors? Thirdly, what we have said at the first moment as a party, along with all the other measures and proposals that we have made to the government, from the very beginning of a pandemic, is that even now the government has to proceed to the necessary task, without any compensation, of private health structures, which also calls for labour unions, institutions and even municipal councils in the area we are discussing, in the western Attica. The measures to be taken by the government, whether or not delayed, in large workplaces, workplaces in public transport, where the main source of disease is proven. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u149	And we thank Mr. Lambroulis. Minister, Mr. Contozamanis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u150	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Lambroulis, you know - we have said it, we all know it, and you of course - that we are dealing with an emergency situation, an unprecedented pandemic, and it makes sense that in these critical times we must take emergency measures, reordering forces in the National Health System, in order to deal with the pandemic. Because you blame the Government for turning the National Health System into a system of a disease - you have mentioned it several times - I would like to tell you that we first have to manage the pandemic. So we emphasise the management of the coronary pandemic. Secondly, throughout the territory, all hospitals regularly inspect with the emergency, and indeed the NON-COVID incidents that come to hospitals are of the order of 45% to 50%. Nothing has stopped the operation of hospitals throughout the pandemic. Also, in the recent period due to the pressure from the National Health System in the Attica area, we have taken concrete measures, including the conversion of the “Siminogall” Hospital and the “Koryalenios – Bennaconi” Hospital to hospitals exclusively for the Coronovirus and recently the “Thriasio” Hospital, to which I will come. When we made these conversions, we made sure that these hospitals are supported by other structures, whether public or private, or by structures of the Armed Forces, so that the days that these hospitals were inventing can deal with the incidents that are not related to the coronary. The "Thriasio" Hospital had to be a coronary hospital, first because it managed coronary cases throughout the pandemic. He has knowledge, he has the experience, and it's a hospital unit we believe can deal with the coronary with adequacy and completeness. But what's going on now? First of all, we didn't do it in luck. We've implemented a specific plan. What's the plan for? Twenty-four hours a day keep health centers in Elefsina and the Megaras. Because you spoke of subsistence, I would remind you of the notices made to serve the health centres in this area on permanent staff and, of course, the 24-hour service a long time ago by the Centre for Health, which we set up. These health centers even update the days they would invent the “Thriasian” Hospital. Also, the “Thriasio” Hospital in case of a very special incident faces this incident. It happened recently, where he was called upon to face a fellow citizen who suffered a heart attack. And of course, the National Center for Direct Aid with all health care is conducting the incidents in hospitals that are on board or in other units. You know, we used to say that the "Thriasio" Hospital is at the edge of the world because it was difficult to access. But now the "Thriasio" is a few minutes away from the center of Athens and the large hospital structures and, of course, it is also next to the "Attiki" Hospital. There is even planning in the case of an industrial accident in the region, because we all recognise the burden that exists due to the operation of the heavy industry in the region and other types of industrial production. Even there we have cooperation with the Armed Forces too, in order to give first aid and to deal with incidents in the event of an emergency, of course. Therefore, in order to make the ‘Thriasio’ hospital COVID a concrete design was carried out to ensure that all residents of the wider region have access to health services. In any event, since epidemiological data allow it, both the ‘Thriasian’ Hospital and the other hospitals, which are used exclusively for COVID, will return to normal operation, will return more enhanced to both personnel and to equipment and financial resources. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u151	Mr. Lambroulis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u152	Thank you, Mr President. I listened carefully to the Minister. That is what we lack, Minister, is that there should be no possibility for hospitals that have been converted into CIVID hospitals to see the emergency. That's all we need. The question is what happens from there on. So in this “from there on” as far as the “Thriasian” Hospital is concerned, the six surgical rooms do not work. They turned into COVID. More than a thousand patients are on a waiting list to operate. Correspondingly, three clinics in the pathological field suspended their function precisely because of this conversion to a CIVID hospital: the cardiological, neurological and pediatric. Also, ten clinical and surgical specialties, orthopaedic surgery, neurosurgery, plastic surgery, ORL, urology, ophthalmology, gynaecological and genosurgery, as well as the angion surgery that hospitalized hundreds of patients in normal operation, to say so. In general, ICU with eight beds, unit of infarctions with ten beds and a haematological laboratory. All this is at the service of dealing with the COVID incidents. Emergency department and department of external medical services visiting thousands of people in the region there and not just. Corresponding, radiodiagnostic section and diagnostic laboratories conducting thousands of tests. Because it's not just the emergency. They're also regular dates. Thousands in the external hospitals are sliding because there is not or is broken - if you like - the primary care of health and not only here in West Attica, but all of Greece. The pain clinic, where more than sixty patients with severe chronic illnesses and, respectively, paedophilia, social work department, dietary department, psychologists, physiotherapy, treatment, reasoning, served hundreds of our fellow people. The ones they're going to now? They're going to the private sector. So, since you put it yourself, it was preceded by the conversion of the CIVID CVT to the CVID, which results in the hospital located right in the centre of the industrial area, that is, between two major refineries and next to dozens of industries with dangerous activities, that there is no bed available for the hospital of multiple wounds or burns. Remember what happened in Matty. We ask you to tell us the timetable for the hospital's reopening. And, of course, it is clear that all of what the people of the wider region lack with the unacceptable - we believe - a government decision to convert the ‘Thriasian’ to a hospital of COVID cannot be replaced to a minimum by the establishment of the military mobile surgery unit at the hospital courtyard. On the one hand, the operation of the surgery is suspended, and on the other hand, we bring a mobile operating unit of the Army to the hospital courtyard to deal with the emergency. So we, Mr President, - and I close with this - believe that the government must proceed immediately to the following measures: First, in the immediate reopening of the General Hospital's “Thriasio” and in the order of major private clinics for safe hospitalisation of intersected patients who remain outside the ICU. Secondly, in the decongestion of public hospitals by patients with COVID. Thirdly, the strengthening of the ‘Thriasian’ Hospital, as well as of the Elefsina, Egyptian and Grand Health Centres, with the recruitment of permanent staff and the permanentization of workers under contracts of employment. Accordingly, a health centre should be established in Mandra. Mandra has no right to a health center? Fourthly, to take protection measures at the workplace, in public transport and in schools in the region. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u153	Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry. I would ask you to be as brief as you can.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u154	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Lambroulis, you ask me when the hospital will return to its normal rate. I wish he could come back today, like all the other hospitals. However, given the situation, I cannot give a clear timetable. It is logical that we should see a clear fall of the pandemic in the Attica region, to return not only the “Thriasian” Hospital, but all hospitals in their normal operation. However, I told you that in any case both "Thriasio" and other hospitals are supported every day by hospitals that either on-call or on-call. And I repeat: For one thing, "Thriasio" has the "Atticon" within its distance. I told you that the military unit is in case of an emergency scenario to have an accident in the area in order to provide first aid. And, of course, our plan in the case of such a scenario is the Attica Hospital and other Attica Hospitals, which also have units that need - such as burn units - in order to deal with such incidents. I also told you that when he had to deal with an emergency that couldn't be crossed into the hospital, he did it. There was an infarction. Health centers also operate on a 24-hour basis and there comes the people in the area - why regular external medical services have been transferred to health centres - in order to serve them. So I have talked to you about an overall plan which has been developed in the area and which I wish to repeat - soon to be able to overcome this difficulty and our hospitals to return to normal operation. You also referred to the strengthening of primary care units. There are air notices for both permanent staff and, of course, subsidiary staff in order to meet the needs of the region and the wider region, because this is indeed an area where there is a large proportion of the population living and industrial activity. Now, as far as the order is concerned, we have said that we have it in our patronage, in our arsenal. We have used the tool of requiring private structures when it took to northern Greece last year. If necessary, we'll do it again. There is, at the moment, such cooperation with the private sector, which the National Health System needs. And, of course, because you have spoken of the order of private structures, we must say that you are talking about an order without compensation. That's not happening anywhere. We'd talk about confiscation then. I've said it before.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u155	Why does it matter if the clinical authorities lose a few million? Let's not make profits. That's enough. The workers will normally be paid for their work.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u156	And of course, I would ask you to take a seat, because you are constantly talking about ordering private structures and we have gone further. We've ordered doctors. You can also tell us if you agree with the order of services. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u157	Next, the second, with number 675/11-4-2021, is the timely question of the first cycle of the MP Argolis of the Change Movement Mr. Andreas Poulas to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Serious questions about the procurement procedures, the reliability and safety of the self-diagnostic tests". Mr. Andreas Poulas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u158	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, under the Act number 109/2021 of the Court of Auditors' F it was decided that the signature of the five audited draft conventions for the supply by the General Secretariat of Civil Protection of nine million four hundred thousand rapid diagnostic tests for the coronary by the self-testing process, self-control, self-diagnosis. The above decision raises serious questions which require immediate answers from the Government. In particular, of the five companies to which the supply of self-diagnostic tests was assigned by express tenders, two different products entered the market for the disposal of the citizens. One of them was of Chinese origin and offers it to four of the five contractors at a different price each. It is clear from the above that the awarded diagnostic test on the one hand does not have the CE marking and on the other hand their instructions are based on icons not provided in the Greek language, while their circulation in Austria and the Czech Republic is based on documents whose authenticity is questioned as not bringing the marking of the Hague seal, which would not be accepted by any other court in any other case, such as the case law of our courts. And I ask you: why do you not make sure that the tenders are carried out in good time and in accordance with the normal procedures provided for, but do you take action and squeeze time for them to be justified exceptionally? Secondly, what measures do you intend to take to ensure that these tests undergo further technical checks to certify their reliability? Thirdly, why did the supply of smaller quantities of self-diagnostic testes not be chosen, given that the technical specifications laid down in the declaration were not met, in order not to impose such an excessive burden on the state budget? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u159	Thank you, Mr. Poulla. The Minister has the floor. Please, specific answers to the questions. Don't open up to other issues. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u160	I will be brief, Mr President. Thank you very much. Mr Poula, first of all the government must find ways and proceed with actions aimed at ensuring the safe return to normal conditions of the economy and society in general. We have also decided to use the self-diagnosis tool, self-tests, a tool that other countries like England, France and Germany now use. England asks for two self-tests a week from students to go to school. So we didn't find out the wheel. And it's an additional strategy - we've said it - which follows our PCR diagnostics strategy, molecular control and rapid diagnostic tests, all of course, of a strategy that has to do with strengthening the National Health System, mass diagnostics and population vaccination. I believe that no one disagrees with this strategy. You refer to your question that one of them is of Chinese origin, that they offer it four of the five companies at a different price and that you conclude that they have no CE marking. I inform you, Mr Poula, that all the products available are because they are licensed. They therefore qualify as self-diagnostic self-diagnostic products and products authorised in our country. You have referred to timely procedures. We have an extraordinary situation to manage and call upon a competent public, state authority, the General Secretariat of Civil Protection, in compliance with a specific procedure provided for in the legislation, to make this contest. You spoke of smaller quantities. I'll answer you. We have already proceeded to a second invitation to tender for more quantities. Because the government has said 'a self-test per week to all citizens' and we started from schoolchildren. Today this process, in the public and private sectors, has also been opened in specific population groups. In fact, what have we done all this time, both with the rapids and self-tests? Because we have also proceeded to a second competition in order to ensure, as I have said, that the quantities - and we need them, we will need more. We have succeeded in constantly falling prices. The State is therefore benefiting from both the lower prices and has these tools at its disposal. You have also referred to a number of typical issues, such as the Hague seal. Let me say that I do not consider this to be a major one, but this negligence on the part of the committee seems to me to be justified, because we are talking about it - you have said so too - for the same product. Four products are of the same house. So we have an official translation and we have four different lawyers who validate the translations, the validation of the same document, from the same body, with the same content. Uh, I don't think these four people have been conspiracy to the public sector. In any case, then, so far everything has been going on according to our programming, and in any case we ensure, both the circulation of these products on the market, which fulfil all the conditions of European legislation in principle and which have been approved by the competent bodies of the European Union, and at the same time we can and can implement our strategy. You have seen - and I am closing down, Mr President - the usefulness of these tests. Because that's what we wanted to achieve, to be able to track down asymptomatic patients. Students were found last week who had a positive test and were able to limit the spread of the virus and locate these people, who otherwise, if they were asymptomatic, would not feel anything, but they would say "I have nothing, I have a coronary, I can move freely". So it is a tool whose usefulness proves to be daily. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u161	Mr. Poula, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u162	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the questions remain for the way in which the self-tests tender was made, at the time when a second tender, as you said, was followed by the same procedures for the supply of additional quantities. In these questions, however, you do not give us any answer. You told us about low prices, about lowering prices. Then why has Roche not lowered prices? He offered it 4 euros and 4 euros has offered it back. Let's go down. Are you hiding something from us? I understand that the government, especially in this period of time, feels depressed, because things in the country are not evolving as you would expect. You thought this pandemic outbreak would be over much sooner. However, it turns out, in practice, that this outbreak is late to end and you are wrongly manipulated to contain the spread of the virus, seeking to resolve the individual responsibility of the citizens. On the other hand, you do not assume the responsibility for carrying out the questionable legal tender for self-tests. Finally, the derogating conventions must be stopped. For as long as you use them in the supplies of health materials, the more you give the right to be misled over these processes and this fact is verified by today's publications, which speak of the ultimate fiasco. How is it possible to accept a company, which in the process fails to fulfil its obligations, to be declared discounted and to leave huge gaps in the supply of self-tests, even when you rely on them an important part of this pandemic management and the opening up of schools and other activities? Is there any more inconsistent proof of the clandestineness with which you are going throughout this whole period of the health crisis, which, in fact, tends to be expressed by dubious legal acts? The company itself, according to the reports, has won the competition for rapid tests, which has also been frozen because of actions. It is unauthorized and morally unacceptable for some to do gold jobs in your knowledge with the supplies of rapid test and self-tests on the back of the Greek people, who fight daily to cope with and to return to normality. Also, Minister, the opening up of activities is a great challenge, when cases are still moving at high levels. Epidemiological surveillance should be done with great care, as any mistake can have even more tragic consequences. It is therefore crucial to check the reliability of self-tests, when you have agreed not to have the CE - and that is not what you say. What measures are you taking to find out that their credibility is what they say? Why don't you go ahead with a random sample check with rapid test or PCR test, to see if these self-tests are reliable to be used for the Greek population? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u163	Mr Minister, you have the floor to answer the questions raised.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u164	Mr Poula, apologies for using the expression, but I think you're saying that you are saying that we are being declared a discounted company which did not fulfil the conditions for the award of the tender. He didn't deliver and he was declared beneath. So, what do we do? Shouldn't we follow the process? In any case, this is also a proof that all the procedures provided for by the law have been complied with. You referred to the 'ROCHE', the first competition and prices. Let me remind you that the first competition provided for a quantity of 10 million tests and raised nine million four hundred thousand tests. The quantities taken by the companies certainly start at the lowest price and reached the highest and are based on how many tests each company can give. The number of companies in the first tender was much smaller than in the second tender, and I mean the number of companies that submitted tenders. As far as the CE/IVD assessments are concerned, I have said that they are for professional use and have the permission of other organisations to qualify as self-tests, because there are procedures for both the derogation and the other European procedures. There are different procedures - you will know this - how a marketing authorisation is assessed and how a device, such as self-tests, is evaluated by independent international organisations that confirm the results they claim. That is what we are doing, we are monitoring these independent bodies, who evaluate all these tests. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u165	Thank you, Minister. The fourth question, with number 661/5-2021, will be discussed now, firstly, in the Eastern Attica of Meratia, 25 Mr. Maria Apatzidis, to the Minister for Health, on the subject: 'Strength of transmission and dispersion of the coronary, food supermarkets'. Mrs. Apajidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u166	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we are going through the third wave of pandemic in our country with the feelings that dominate society is insecurity and fear. These feelings are gigantic in the supply of first - time goods, such as food supermarkets, as they have not ceased to function since the first case occurred in Greece at all. Each of us can see on a daily basis the unsafe working conditions experienced by employees in supermarkets, which are health bombs and over-transmissions due to lack of protection, which has unfortunately led to two deaths of workers in Piraeus and Halkidiki. Closed spaces with minimal ventilation, single blocks of work that cannot be cut off from one another, food warehouses and working sections where there is continuous rotation and movement of employees, overcompensation of customers in all areas by decontamination of the spaces only at the end of the daily shift, and mainly at least in minus tests of virus detection. All these conditions, Minister, make the supermarkets a permanent daily COVID-19 sanitary bomb. The hundreds of cases and the two deaths of employees are, unfortunately, a stunning demonstration of what we call ourselves. Minister, the cases of the last period in large supermarkets in areas such as Galatsi, Vineyards, Patisia, Acharnes and Piraeus are the undisputed witnesses of consciously mismanaged management by the owners. The owners, in order to prevent the economic damage to their businesses with potential cessations of operation, risk the health of their poorly paid employees. As Minister, how does it intend to solve the acute problem of incomplete health protection measures in food supermarkets that have led to a huge increase in cases and two deaths of employees due to COVID -19? Will you directly and in consultation with their owners in massively repetitive free test for all? In regular substantial disinfections at all premises of shops, offices, warehouses, health protocols and a stable working doctor in each shop? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u167	Thank you, too. Minister, answer the questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u168	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Apatzides, the government has made it clear since the outbreak of the pandemic that it gives priority to the protection of public health and, by extension, the health of the population - and everything else goes to the workplace first, with specific protocols, laws, ministerial decisions relating to both employers and workers. We have certainly made progress in legislating and implementing all these decisions, and we believe that the measures we have taken in no way are incomplete. The directives are complete and clear, and what is, of course, required is compliance with the measures and decisions on each side. There are no discounts and where there are discrepancies, derogations or infringement of legislation, then specific penalties provided for in the legislation are imposed. The Government today, because of the opening up of the retail trade, has foreseen the use of a self-test per worker and that category of trade to which you refer on the supermarkets, with compulsory self-control once a week before the worker comes into work with his physical presence. As you know, this check must be carried out twenty-four hours ago, so that we can ensure both the health of workers in these companies and the world that comes to them. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u169	Here you go, Mr. Apatzidis, for your denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u170	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Secretary. I listened very carefully. But the supermarket workers throughout the economic crisis have not stopped working and you know that very well. They are on the front line in terms of risk of exposure to the virus along with nursing and medical personnel. In a different way, the front line does not. They come in contact every day with hundreds of people. In some cases they have on average contacts with even a thousand five hundred people. The government should ensure that they are vaccinated by the first groups, as is the case with the country's nursing and medical staff. You have a responsibility that you have not forced employers to do test COVID for supermarket workers at regular intervals. The self-diagnostic tests, the so-called self-tests, to which you are looking late now, are not a solution for the effective protection of workers, nor for effective control of the pandemic. That's not what I'm saying. It is a fact also highlighted in the report of the European Centre for the Control of Infections. Their function may only be complementary. In addition, their credibility is questioned, even more if their use is not made by qualified personnel. Your orientation for gradual opening of activities based on self-diagnostic tests only as a assumption of failure of your government policy can be for the management of the pandemic. Beyond a failure and a product of carelessness, you also show the communication character of your political choices, as you do in anything. Last week we had a record of death. The Thursday that passed us a hundred and a half of our fellow men left our lives a year after the pandemic began in the country. For a whole year, Mera25 cries, says specific things: "The need to create a network of centres for massive tests throughout Greece, which will then be converted into vaccination centres and at the end of the pandemic will be integrated into primary care" You have chosen to be deaf, and now you are coming to present a allegedly free access to mass tests of controversial quality and efficiency. You turn to self-diagnostic tests for two reasons: First, to show how something you do, in order to reverse the heavy climate that has been formed in society, justifying it unjustifiedly. How is it possible, in other words, to open the country in a worse state than you have closed it? And secondly, in order to transfer the responsibility of the state for managing the pandemic to the pharmacists, who have voiced strong objections to the citizens with the ultimate aim of saying: 'It is your fault'. You've lost control, Minister. Christmas average weekly cases were sixteen in eastern Attica, thirty-seven in central Athens. Last Friday, that is four and a half months later, the average was launched in a hundred twenty-four and two hundred ninety-eight cases respectively. I conclude by reminding you that during the whole health crisis the supermarkets remained open to the risk of the virus and the chances of its transmission are enormous. However, not only did the workers in the sector become unhealthy and unhealthy, as they rightly demand, but they did not even see an increase in their wages. We must open up the debate, firstly, on the integration of all supermarket workers into the heavy and unhealthy professions and, secondly, on the provision of unhealthy work for the duration of the pandemic. We should not forget that, particularly during the first phase of the restrictive measures, there has been a separation of supermarket employees from the rest of the private sector with almost all Sundays, as well as an extension of working hours from seven in the morning to seven in the evening. If that's possible! Finally, we expect answers about the scandal smell for the company by supplying three million self-tests. The strange thing is, Minister, that this particular company has only two contracts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u171	Minister, please close with your brief answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u172	Thank you, Mr President. I will be very brief, although Mrs Apatzides has really raised a lot of issues, which have nothing to do with the question. I would just like to emphasise once again the fact that measures to protect the health of workers have been taken since the beginning of the pandemic and are described in detail both laws, ministerial decisions and related interpretative circulars of the Ministry of Labour and the observance of these directives and measures is the main prerequisite, in order that these sectors of the economy can safely function, but also to protect both our workers and other citizens who come to these parties in order to purchase. Let me remind you that the measures we have taken so far are complete, implemented and where there are derogations, intervention or sanctions, and in any case our aim is to protect the health of our fellow citizens. I will disagree with you on what you mentioned about self-tests. It is a useful tool, of course, - complementary tool - which enables us safely to operate these activities. I said this and in answer to a previous question, that the aim is to be able to catch the asymptomatic - one in three vectors of the virus is asymptomatic - and this tool gives us the opportunity. Because if someone's asymptomatic, they wouldn't have done the test in any other case. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u173	The first under number 673/9-4-2021 topical question in the second cycle of MP B2' Western Athens Sector of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Charulas (Haras) Kafantaris to the Minister of Civil Protection, on the subject: "Anti-Pyrical Period 2021" is not discussed in consultation. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. I would like to ask the House: do you accept this point of order?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-19-S1-commons.u174	(a) Parliamentary control: topical and urgent debate and (b) legislative work, in accordance with the agenda to be distributed to you.
