ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-12-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Before entering the topical and urgent debate, I have three announcements to make to this House: The Standing Committee on Economic Affairs shall submit its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Integration of Directive (EU) 2019/878 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2019 amending Directive 2013/36/EU as regards exempted entities, financial holding companies, mixed financial holding companies, remuneration, measures and capital conservation measures (L 150), incorporation of Directive (EU) 2019/879 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2019 amending Directive 2014/59/EU on the capacity to absorb and recapitalisation of credit institutions and investment firms and Directive 98/26/EC (L 150), by amending Article 2 of Law No4335/2015, and other emergency provisions. The Ministers for Justice, Finance, Education and Religious Affairs, Labour and Social Affairs, Health, Home Affairs, State and the Deputy Minister of Finance tabled a draft law on 7-5-2021: "Reforms on relations between parents and children and other issues of family law". It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. The Ministers for Development and Investment, Economics, Civil Protection, Health, Environment and Energy, Justice, Home Affairs, Infrastructure and Transport, Maritime and Island Policy, Rural Development and Food, as well as the Deputy Ministers of Finance, Development and Investment and Foreign Affairs, submitted on 28-4-2021 a draft law: ‘Production, export and disposal of finished cannabis products of the kind Cannabis Sativa L with more than 0,2% tetrahydrocannabinol (THC).’ It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. We are now entering the reading of petitions. I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-12-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, my colleague. I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent debate on Friday 14 May 2021. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. Mr Georgios Koumoutsakos, Member of Parliament, with No 730/10-5-2021, a topical question by MP B1 'North Athens Sector of the New Democracy Mr. George Kumoutsakos to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'Ponnift current'. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No. 735/10-5-2021 is a topical question by MP B3' South Athens, SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr.Ioannis Mousala, Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "Full through the conditions that led to the death in the Pre-Accession Centres for Immunities (PRECCA) Kos and Korinthos". 3. The question by No 733/10-5-2021 of the Greek Communist Party MEP Mr Leonidas Stoltides to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs on "Protecting the Rights of Workers in the Oils of Kavala". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1.H by No 5220/22-2021 question by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingarou Kegeroglou to the Minister for Development and Investment, on "Measures for Gymnasium Support".
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-12-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The first two will be answered by the Minister of National Defence Mr Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos. We begin with the first with the number 732/10-5-2021 top-level question of the first-round question of the Member of the Istanbul Parliament of the Change Movement Mr.Dimitrios Konstantopoulos to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Repeated injustices in mobilisation of the Armed Forces serving at the airport". Mr Constantopoulos, you have the floor to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-12-S1-commons.u4	Minister, the officials of the Armed Forces serving at the Airport of the Coast suffer an ongoing injustice in their mobilisation. My current question is a follow-up to the questions I had put in February and November 2020, with which I had raised this issue again. Therefore, let me remind you that the Coast Military Airport has changed its name in July 2018 and is now called FOB Support Unit. Result? Until now, executives who serve in this unit receive 1/3 of molecules per month, compared to what they would receive under the previous name, and are therefore to be unfair for about thirty-four months and have a direct impact on their transfers. Indeed, Minister, in my questions you have acknowledged that there is a problem with moleculosis. You also informed us that the molecules system was being updated, with a view to equal and fair treatment for all executives, as well as that the Air Force General Staff concluded its proposals to amend the current Ministerial Decision, including the moleculation of the FOB Coast Support Unit. However, since then no progress has been made. Result? There should be injustices in moleculosis with a direct impact on transfers. In addition, executives who do not remain at the place of their choice or are not transferred to their place of choice and, of course, under the responsibility of the public, suffer the injustice without any responsibility. After that, Minister, I would like to ask you the following question. Will you take the necessary steps to remove the injustices in mobilisation against military servants at the Airport of Coast? Secondly, when will the new FOB Support Unit be included in the annex to the Ministerial Decision? I'm waiting for your answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-12-S1-commons.u5	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-12-S1-commons.u6	I shall be brief, Mr President, since the question, as the honourable Member said, has already been analysed through the procedure of parliamentary scrutiny with a simple question. Of course you have asked questions, you have expressed your interest and did well. I have replied to you on this subject, from 14-12-2020, that the question of updating the system of mobilisation of the units and services of the Armed Forces is being examined in total, not by unit, but at cross-sectoral level under the coordination of the OHIM. In this context, proposals from the Air Force General Staff for the FOB ACTIVE, the former airport, which is now FOB, have been included within the framework of the naval structure of forces. So what we need to keep now is that we are not dealing with the issue of unit moleculosis, where appropriate, but in total. That is what I think is the right way to do. Our aim has been and remains to find the best possible solution to achieve the reform of the existing molecules framework, with a view, of course, to fair and equitable treatment of all executives. You understand that the FOB Coast FOB staff issue cannot be isolated from the overall effort for an overall and objective institutional mobilisation framework. In fact, I would mention that there are questions in the context of parliamentary control, almost all the geographical parts of the country and of the Ioannina, since he read the morning reports of the Member of the Ioannina. I can assure you, however, that the moleulation of the Coast FOB will not be overlooked. Obviously, there will be a relative adjustment in a spirit of equality and justice. In any case, the overall framework understands that it has been characterised by general staff with confidentiality classifications and I cannot therefore extend any further. However, I am at your disposal, as I have always been, and the services of the Ministry of National Defence are at your disposal to inform you of developments. In the summer, we plan to bring to the vote a more comprehensive bill regulating various outstanding career issues that are directly related to the development of military personnel. I would say a personal centre - on staff issues, that is - bills within the Ministry's dense programme and obligations, and I think that in this context we intend to regulate the whole issue of moleculosis with the outstanding or distortions that exist through it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-12-S1-commons.u7	Mr. Constantopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-12-S1-commons.u8	Minister, the change of name of the military airport of Aktio was made for the purpose of merging the air spirit with the swarm of airborne FOB Coast radar. However, the project and mission of the unit has not changed and that's what keep it. Also, it has not been reduced. So moleculosis should be returned to previous ones, I would say, levels. It should be stressed here, as you yourself have acknowledged, that its changes to the Coastal Unit have been carried out with the aim of optimising the operational exploitation of resources and saving resources. However, the reduction of the molecules of personnel serving at the FOB Coast Support Unit is the result of organisational change of the unit, a problem that has been undertaken to resolve the Army General Staff, namely the Air Force. However, Minister, this issue has been overdue. We are talking for a third year and we are continuing in the same situation. We understand that mobilisation of Air Force officials is an annex to the ministerial decision that bears the degree of confidentiality. We understand that you are trying to resolve it in the best possible way. But time passes at the expense of the servants in the Aktiu. Here I note that the changes to the moleculosis should have been completed before the end of February, so that, as provided for in Article 1(5) of the current Ministerial Decision No 294483797/2018, the relevant directorates-general, the branches and common bodies of the OHIM should draw up yearbooks with the molecules of all military personnel and notify them to all personnel for information by 20 February 2021. However, Minister, this has not happened. That is exactly what I pointed out to you in my last question in November 2020, calling on you to resolve the issue in good time. Today, however, five months after your last answer and three months after the date laid down by the Ministerial Decision, there is no information at all. And this, of course, to those who serve in the FOB Coast Support Unit. In addition, the new name of the unit is not incorporated in the tables of the molecule order. In conclusion, Minister, with the expectation that the matter will be resolved quickly, I ask you to do so, knowing your effectiveness. It is also important that solutions are given immediately without adding bureaucracy, because bureaucracy is an enemy of all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-12-S1-commons.u9	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-12-S1-commons.u10	I will be brief, Mr President, again. In the year that passed, I think we all accept that the whole of the Armed Forces, of course, also the General Staff, have been involved in dealing with an extensive national crisis arising from the tension with the neighbour. Therefore, their attention, their concentration was dedicated to it and something else, the great effort to upgrade the potential of the Armed Forces. And when I say dynamic, I refer to both the means and the staff. It was true that our interventions first had to do with the upgrading of the instruments. Especially for the Air Force in the last 12 - eighteen months, I would say they were emblematic, crucial for its future, since during this period we solved the question of support for the Miraz 2000-5 with spare parts that had to be enjoyed in an uninterrupted flow since 2012, when the contract had expired, then support. We passed the F-16 upgrade program, which concerns the main trunk of the fleet of our war aircraft, despite the previous delays. We went to the supply of the eighteen Raphala at unprecedented speeds, at least for the Greek data, since that was a national and operational need. We have solved the problem of the future, namely the education of the poor, with the establishment of an International Training Centre in Kalamata in cooperation with an Israeli company which has undertaken to do so. We put the foundations for a very positive future of the Air Force. Of course, there are also interventions, not only in this sector, but also in others, which have to do with staff, among them the overall upgrade of the moleculation issue. We recognise that this must be done. I told you it would be with the bill we'd introduce for the manager's careers. I also told you that, as of 31 March of this year, new updates have been made by the OHIM, not only for the moleculation of the FOB Act but, more generally, for the new system. I would remind you that a few months ago I had the opportunity to visit Preveza and that is where I became a socialist of this concern, among other things. The rumor was that the Coast Airport, the air base there, was to close. I said there and I repeated it several times in public that not only will the Airport close, but on the contrary will be upgraded, because there is a strong interest in naval structures as well as in its upgrading because of its location and its strategic importance. Hence its conversion into FOB, on an airline in advanced form, as part of the Mediterranean structure. This risk therefore went through - which, if necessary, was also the concern of some executives, but which was not justified - and the bases entered to upgrade further because of their importance. Now there are a number of concerns about careers. I told you that they will soon be regulated, given our legislative intervention planned in the summer. It depends of course on the circumstances, but this is our design and we usually succeed in being consistent with our design. Therefore, yes, there are distortions that will be regulated. However, the issue of mobilisation is an overall issue, not only of this unit, but of the entire Armed Forces, and this is our intention to regulate it completely and overall for the benefit of executives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-12-S1-commons.u11	I have the honour to inform the House that the Minister of Justice has forwarded to Parliament, in accordance with Rule 86 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2003 ‘Prime Responsibility of the Ministers, as applicable: On the 224-2021 Criminal case law concerning the former Deputy Minister of Health Paulo Polakis, and the 7-5-2021 Criminal case law concerning the Minister of Health Vassilis Kikilias. We continue with its third question under number 729/10-5-2021 in the first cycle of MP B2' Western Athens Division of Mera25 Mr. Kritona Arseni to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "The Government plans to assign the military camp 301 E.B. in Agios Anargyros to individuals instead of the Municipality.’ Mr Arsenis, you have the floor to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-12-S1-commons.u12	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, it is a matter that we had discussed before, but the debate was somewhat lacking. You said that because it had done, and then as a Member of Parliament, the current Prime Minister, in a timely manner, asking for the camp to be attributed to the citizens of the Municipality of St. Anargyra and Kamaterou, whose needs in green are less than 40% - and we are talking here about a two hundred-square camp that is bordering and the Municipality of Ilio, which is even worse - you will discuss with the Prime Minister and current MP of Western Athens what you will do with this camp. So I would really like you to tell us the result of this debate. I would, of course, like to remind you that other Members from New Democracy, Mr Adonis Georgiadis, had asked questions and commitments at that time as a member of LAOS, etc. So it is an issue that seems intergrouped to have dealt with Parliament over and over again. That is why in shock the news in the local society has fallen apart that the concession to "CAKOPA" has already been agreed. The publications are quite detailed. They're talking about the assignment of one third of the land to restoration works by the "CAKOPA" of the rest of the camp. Let me remind you here that only about 1/4 of this camp is active right now. It was also discussed on the municipal council, where the mayor himself said he contacted the Armed Forces Property Response Service and told him they knew nothing about the issue. We therefore want you to be clear. Are the publications untrue? Is there a deal with "CATTER"? What stage and why does the respective service not know? Do you pledge that it will be granted to the municipality and to the public - both municipalities, to be honest, why is it a border - this camp as a green area, the part that is not exploited? I'm not talking now about the part that's active, as you mentioned next time. The part that's not active will be granted? What did the Prime Minister tell you about this?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-12-S1-commons.u13	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-12-S1-commons.u14	Mr. Colleague, I have to explain from the outset, so that I don't get misunderstood. I'm not real estate broker. I am the Minister of National Defence, the Ministry's political leadership, if you please. This is the fourth time I've come here to answer your questions about National Defence and we're going to discussions on concessions, exploitations, etc. Real estate. I feel real estate broker in here. That shouldn't be my role. I would also like to make it clear that, when it comes to taking advantage of the property of the Armed Forces, this does not mean - at least from the present political leadership - in terms of gifts, without specific provisions, to bodies of local government that come in such a way, in general and unequivocally request the granting of a property without even having a specific, documented, costly, costly proposal on their exploitation. That's not my job. If she were a bad realtor, I'd be a bad minister too. And I mean my role just like that. Therefore, these one-thematic debates on the possibility of the concession of camps in your constituency I think are escaping from the object of the Ministry of National Defence. I understand a concern. It is often due to reports, which the Ministry of National Defence has never confirmed. It is not this job, however, to confirm or disprove news about the real estate of the Armed Forces. So I have the following specific words to say. It is the Koskinas camp, owned by the National Defence Fund, the TTHA. It is actively active in this period and is also operationally necessary in the military service as a whole, as in it they are militant in 301 Military Base Factory, the Technical Training School of Officials and the Material War Unit. There's some rumors. Neither the Ministry of National Defence nor the ETHA - which has its real estate for use in the relevant agency, the Ministry of Property of Armed Forces in order to run competitive procedures or to have concession procedures if and if there is a comprehensive and documented proposal from one body - we are not aware of the publications to which you refer, nor of course have negotiations for the sale of a camp department to any third party. Part of the camp located outside its fence is imprisoned by the Municipality of Agios Anargyra - to say this as well - and is used after shaping as a bicycle road and pedestrian road by its citizens. It is a noble purpose, but it is important that it is not done in terms of trespass but of mutual agreement for the disposal of this section to the municipality. And for this purpose, the ETHA will hold a meeting at the end of the year with representatives of the municipality in order to resolve the question of imprisonment. It has also sent to the municipality since January of this year a letter to initiate the procedure for taking advantage of the territory concerned, without, of course, having received any written or telephone responses to date. In order to put the rules of operation in a way, therefore, if a local government wants to make use of terms of concession to it of some property belonging to the real estate of the Armed Forces, it would be appropriate to table a proposal. Not a general and vague proposal, i.e. 'give me the property and I will make it green', but a concrete, documented proposal to convince the National Defence Fund and the Ministry of Defence that this property is going to be exploited. There are little examples of real estate that have been allocated to other municipalities, to other regions of the country without having this framework that I have described, which are still untapped and are even depreciated day after day because it simply local government has not succeeded in exploiting them. And I think we should not go with these same rules and conditions, but put some more advantageous to both sides. The Ministry of National Defence wants to use its property. You can understand that so far there has been a purpose to do that. There is a need, the feasibility to that, but also those who are calling for the real estate of the Armed Forces to be granted to them must have, if anything else, a rational, documented proposal for their exploitation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-12-S1-commons.u15	Mr Arsenis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-12-S1-commons.u16	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, you say you're not a real estate broker. And yet most of your speech was about the conditions for exploiting the property of the Armed Forces. As if this property were separated from the people's property. It's like this property isn't public. Did you come here to tell us about the price that the municipality has to pay for the use of an inactive piece of the camp as a bike street and tell us that you have not taken over the role of a real estate agent, selling a bicycle road to the inhabitants, when Mr Mitsotakis' advertising has become locally a scandal that he granted the old abandoned train station of the OSE and we have finally discovered - we were initially misled - that it was a rental? In any case, please tell us almost two years after our first debate, have you discussed the camp with Mr. Mitsotakis? I would remind you that Mr Mitsotakis before becoming Prime Minister, before he even became a Member of the West of Athens, when he was a Member of the wider 2nd Athens, had requested this concession. Has Mr. Mitsotakis' attitude changed on the subject? Is he still thinking the same thing or has he completely changed his mind? To say it in public. And please tell us - because you committed yourself in this Chamber, it is in the Minutes - if you spoke with him. Of course we are talking with concern, because we have seen the "Plassa" camp in the Mediterranean region now given PPC, which will build it as announced. So we are obviously concerned about the fate of these lands, the last green opportunity in areas such as the Municipality of Saints Anargyro - Kamaterou, but also neighbors, who not only have such a bad green rate, but have the HYTAR Globe over their heads to bear very much the quality of life, the right to breath, they have pollution from Triasios, they have an intensified violation of the Poikilo Mount with claims from the Metropolitan Church of Lamia and so on. It's things that sometimes have to end. So you're clearly disgusting the articles. That's what I understand. I would like it to be even clearer. It's unsubstantiated. You have nothing to do with "AKORA". I would like you to tell us what the Prime Minister's commitment is about whether or not this section of the camp is being granted. And, please, we really do not want the Minister of Defence and the Ministry of Defence to be a real estate broker. It is truly incomprehensible to think that there is a department of the Ministry of National Defence at the moment the cycling road is discussing with the municipality to return to the National Defence Fund or to pay a price. These are incomprehensible things. We don't really know which country we're in.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-12-S1-commons.u17	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-12-S1-commons.u18	Firstly, it is a matter of perspective. For me, it's incomprehensible that someone else's property is being violated. But obviously this is not a matter for you. As far as the Prime Minister is concerned, I did not come to reply on behalf of the Prime Minister, but on behalf of the Ministry of National Defence, as I am responsible, on a matter of whether or not to grant his real estate. From there on, if I were to be the mayor of St. Anargyros and I wanted to be granted this property, I would simply show this interest in some way to the Ministry of National Defence by tabling or going to discuss the conditions, to find out on the way that all I had to do is submit a comprehensive, comprehensive, structured, if you want, proposal on what I intend to do to make use of this property, nothing more, nothing less. From that point on, I told them your rules. The property which attracts an interest in a local government should not be necessary, should not be active in the armed forces. As long as it's not a question. For parts of this, which may not be necessary, a relevant arrangement can be made, but from there on it would be good to have been entirely inactive from the outset. I have a chart with the boundaries of the camp and the buildings within it. I can't say any more why the portrayal of these, as you can see, is classified for military reasons. I note that parts of this property have also been imprisoned by the municipality. I'm at your disposal to see them. But from this chart one can easily understand that there is no space that is not necessary in the camp and that could be attributed to the municipality or any third party. You have come here to ensure a concrete answer if there are rumours for sale to third parties. I'm telling you there's nothing and he doesn't know anything about it, nor about the ETHA, part of whose real estate this property is, nor about the Ministry of National Defence. Finally, I would remind you that 21.2 acres for the construction of school buildings and 19.2 acres have already been allocated to the Municipality of Saints Anargyro, from this camp for the construction of the suburban railway station of ERGOSE. This, a public work like this, for the benefit of the people is, isn't it? So where the Ministry and the competent authority can make concessions in a positive position for the purpose of service and local communities. But there must always be some rules, because as you can see, the real estate of the armed forces is not a matter for the Minister in question. It is a matter of the National Defence Fund, which has information available for use in the department responsible for running the competitive procedure, and this is how the real estate is exploited. However, the HFSF also accounted for the assets of the shareholders whose assets are also by industry respectively. These are the rules, and on the basis of them we operate. As far as local government is concerned, however, it only has to show interest by tabling a comprehensive proposal for the property it is interested in. That's the only rule, if you like, that we put on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-12-S1-commons.u19	Good. We're moving on to the next question. Let's go to the second with no. 751/10-5-2021 top-level question of the first cycle of the MP of Serres of the Greek Solution Mr. Konstantinos Boubas to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Problems on the mobility of civil servants serving in the municipalities of the country since Article 490 of Law No.4781/2021". The question will be answered by the Minister for the Interior, Mr Mavroudis Voridis. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-12-S1-commons.u20	Mr President, Mr Ministers, good morning to everyone. It is certainly a question of the administrative structure of the state with a view to making better use of human resources. The exploitation of human resources is a primary objective to have a proper model of administration and to have a firmness, if you like, and a proper function. But here, because you are legal beyond a politician, this relationship between a state and a citizen is disturbed. And when this relationship is disturbed, you realise that the problems that occur and are being channelled to these people create citizens who, if there is no confidence in the state, are - in in introductory words - 'diseased, troubled and sad'. Procedurally, if we look at this, there is an injustice for these people who have started, we would say that, since October, they will still be prepared, after being given this opportunity, to take advantage of other positions and to be able to move to the wider public sector. I would remind you in time of the debate with those bodies where you should - you know that - place vacancies from October 2020. The platform opened on December 4th, closed after ten days and the whole process took place in December, but it was completed on the day of the Three Hierarchs, on January 31st, where several FEKs - within introductorys - were already "not expecting" the information and information that was available is twenty-four FEKs of these people who have already been transferred to the wider public sector. This amendment created many problems on 26 February at 11 o'clock in the evening, like its publication on Sunday, on the last day of February, and even a circular comes after a 24-hour period to exclude those for whom the FEK had already been declared. I want to believe in your sensitivity to these people who have been serving in OTAs for several years with salaries that are not high, with experience, since there is this mobility so that people can fulfill their dreams, plan their family life, love what we call'state', have this good cooperation, this bonding, this connecting link to feel better and be more efficient. If you want to see it because they're a few employees and they've been subjected to this psycho-corruption process. If we stopped them and in the face of COVID, I don't know...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-12-S1-commons.u21	Finish, Mr. Booba.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-12-S1-commons.u22	I shall conclude, Mr President. ...if in the fall were to change things. The point is that the process has been completed, and once these people have been vindicated by the move, this amendment comes with the governmental work, which must be effective and you must see it, but once they have gone to drink water, we have closed the cannabis. I think it is an injustice against the working taxpayer Greek citizen and must be restored to these people. Their re-participation in the circle...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-12-S1-commons.u23	Mr. Booba, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-12-S1-commons.u24	...it doesn't solve the problem. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-12-S1-commons.u25	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-12-S1-commons.u26	Thank you very much, Mr President. Let's see what we're talking about. Was there indeed a provision in Law 4781/2021 that said ‘only for the 2020 mobility cycle’ - for which municipalities? - "for municipalities with a population of up to twenty-five thousand", - small municipalities - "and in any case for island municipalities with a population of fifty-five thousand, then in order to allow mobility must instead of 65%" - the limit already existing in the law on mobility so as not to deceive municipalities, 65% of the organic unit of posts must be occupied and not fall below 65% to allow mobility - we have reached 65% and made it 80%. Why did we do that? Because we have seen, Mr President, that in some municipalities, in these small towns and in our islands, there would be a problem. Who was this case about? Twenty-four. To reach agreement between us. I want mobility, to serve the service, so the people who accept the services, not to serve the employees. So I want mobility geared to the needs of the service and, therefore, to the needs of the citizens. Are you interested in the employees? And now we're going to the employee drama. I have received a letter from a lady who has taken up this provision. I won't say her name. It doesn't matter. It moved me. He wrote: "People have relied on the laws that changed overnight and have sold cars, they have booked houses, they have changed their lives with the programming that Mr Voridis overthrowed." It says, for me, that decision we are talking about and we are discussing legislation now. "By this decision separates families, destroys dreams, fills with tears of young children who expected how and how their mother." ‘I am sorry,’ says the official concerned.’. I'm moved. I'm saying, did I do such a bad thing? I looked for what happened to that clerk and had them communicate. It doesn't matter who it is, or which municipality it is, or where it works. They were caught in contact with the lady who suffered all this from this provision. What happened to the lady? He works in a municipality. Of course she doesn't lose her job. She's still working in this town. And it's such a distance that she wanted to move, that she didn't even rent her house, nor did her car sell, nor did her children change home. It just has to move from the big city of its prefecture to the municipality that works and this is an hour's drive away. And she sends me this letter that she's been crying for her children, because she has to be moved an hour from work! So, Mr Colleague, we need to know what our priorities are here. My priority is the proper functioning of the services that these services must provide to the citizens. As for the rest, within legal framework, officials have their rights.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-12-S1-commons.u27	Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-12-S1-commons.u28	Minister, this case may be personalized. I can bring you other cases - I can bring them to you - where the woman went to Crete and there was a revocation. We must play in honest terms here. Clear things. They entered the process as early as October 2020, start interviews in December and the whole process in January and prepare psychologically. And I ask the final state, which you are evangelizing and visionating, to do the organizational chart - and you are right to vision - so that we do not finally have heterogeneous administration and have self-government. In this with you. Those officials who know that the figure is 65% and on one night it becomes 80% for the municipalities with the population criteria you say, with the particular characteristics of less than twenty-five thousand people, did they know that? They didn't know. So they entered a process of about five months and the state comes and tells them: 'The rate or the mobility you would go to cover and pay for these posts'. Is this a fair treatment of the state against its cell, the citizen, to have a structured, proper state-run society, if you like, against the people who have planned their lives? Do not put it emotionally, personalised. There will, if necessary, also be the 'blocked' and put it in introductory form. The point is, once again, that citizens are afflicted and fictitious, it seems. So, you give them the guarantees, you give them the motives, you give them the hope, they make a mini, if you want, planning, which awaits this position, because it's not bad for there to be a personal ambition, to show their qualifications, to be able to go to another service, to be the whole family together. Because we have to find the way in a state where the demographic issue is huge and you know it, unite families. So, then, to these people, who aren't many in the number, what are you telling them now? Re-entry into the new mobility cycle? But what was your decision? Because your government was 65%. Your Ministry's leadership has changed, it can be your organizational chart, your thinking, with your mentors who processed it. But, I beg your pardon, are we working for these people? And if we didn't work them out, why don't we not think that they were troubled, had the mental courage, prepared and suddenly told them "doesn't apply, will you be back in the new circle"? And what will be the ultimate purpose of the new circle? It'll be the proper function you're talking about again. Now, I come to the municipalities with less than twenty-five thousand, who I am with you, that they are in sensitive areas, in difficult areas, in special areas, but, if you'll excuse me very much, what changes from the major municipalities? How is this rate set for the small municipalities? So, for the citizen in a remote municipality, the rate of coverage should be 80% and in a large municipality, which the large municipalities know is what a lake tank is for the parties, that's where 65% can apply? Why two yards and two weights? We must certainly have substantial self-government rather than heterogeneous. We also have the CEDEFOP, which may have been subjected to some pressure by the mayors - not to hide - which consents and agrees to the movement of these officials. What was the reasoning? That's what I want to understand. Was it, in order for small municipalities to function in remote areas, difficult to reach 80%, or something else, and will they proceed again, but will we even tear them down, but these little dreams were important to them? It's an injustice anyway. It is an injustice, it is a 'invasive', Minister, and I am very sorry. You need to see humanity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-12-S1-commons.u29	Minister, you have the floor, although you have been clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-12-S1-commons.u30	The fourteen thousand jobs were "lifted" in the first cycle of mobility. Ultimately, I'll tell you how many people have moved. We will see the final results, and I will perhaps also present them in the House at some point, once I have the opportunity, in a comprehensive presentation of how mobility has worked throughout the five cycles. We will have the opportunity to discuss this in the Committee on the Interior. In this cycle, however, there were a thousand five hundred employees from the fourteen thousand who had been 'lifted'. There have been focused problems that I described. Legislative intervention has been made to address these focused problems. It is about twenty-four cases. What happened to the twenty-four? Did they get psychic? They were ready to leave, and they didn't leave? They stayed in their business? Yeah. So I did a weighting, Mr President. To be agitated and compelled somehow by those who were prepared to leave and will not leave, why have I changed the provision, or to force the citizens of these small municipalities into the bad operation of these municipalities, why would the movement cause problems in the service? I had this choice. I had to choose. I chose and preferred the service. I chose and preferred the citizens. You choose and prefer the twenty-four employees. People listen to us and they understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-12-S1-commons.u31	The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, the minutes of the sittings of Wednesday 13 January 2021, Thursday 14 January 2021, Friday 15 January 2021, Monday 18 January 2021, Tuesday 19 January 2021, Wednesday 2021, Thursday 21 January 2021, Thursday 21 January 2021, Friday 22 January 2021, Monday 25 January 2021, Tuesday 26 January 2021 and Wednesday 27 January 2021 have been distributed and the House is asked whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-12-S1-commons.u32	Therefore the minutes of the sittings of Wednesday 13 January 2021, Thursday 14 January 2021, Friday 15 January 2021, Monday 18 January 2021, Tuesday 19 January 2021, Wednesday 20 January 2021, Thursday 21 January 2021, Friday 22 January 2021, Monday 25 January 2021, Tuesday 26 January 2021 and Wednesday 27 January 2021 were ratified. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-12-S1-commons.u33	With the consent of the House at 10.10 p.m. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday, 13 May 2021, at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of this House's legislative work, in accordance with the agenda to be distributed.
