ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-26-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's 25-11-2021 authorisation, the minutes of its GG's meeting, Thursday 25 November 2021, with regard to the vote on the entire draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food: ‘Statutes to facilitate and modernise the establishment and operation of livestock facilities, provisions on controls and sanctions and other urgent arrangements’, were ratified by the Bureau.]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House. [[They are announced to the House by the Secretary of Parliament, Rallia Christidou, MP B3' South Athens, the following:]] [[A. PRESENTATION OF REFERENCES]] [[TAKE MAIL WITH THE REFERENCES]] [[B. REQUIREMENTS OF SUPPORT IN BUILDERS’ REQUIREMENTS]] [[TAKE MAIL WITH THE REQUESTS]] [[CHANGES BACK FOR CHANGING MATTER]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Before entering the debate today's topical and urgent debate, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent debate on Monday 29 November 2021. [[A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure)]] [[1. The 194/15-11-2021 topical question by MP Evia of the Radical Left Coalition Evangelos Apostolos to the Minister of Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Removing the producer attestation for the installation of a 5-story wind park in the Municipal Unit of Cyrus Municipality of Karystos".]] Ladies and gentlemen, three questions will be debated today. So there's got to be a time tolerance. It will not be debated after consultation with the first under number 211/22-11-2021, a topical question by MP Larissa of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Vassilis Kokalis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: 'High-Secretary Assurance for all - constitutional obligation of the state'. For all this, there is also the relevant document from the Secretary of the Ministerial Council. First we will discuss the second question by number 207/22-11-2021, first question by MEP I of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis, Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The evolution of the High School of Education and Technology (SPATE)". The Secretary of State will answer Mr. Syrgyrgos. Mr. Delia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-26-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. As you said, the question concerns the High School of Education and Technology. This is a well-qualified institution, Minister, which has suffered all the consequences of the anti-educational policy of governments over the past sixty years. The last of these consequences, and perhaps the worst, is the fact that today's ASPATE is the only institution in the country that has remained in the technological field of higher education after the recent abolition of TEIs. Practically, ASPATE remains steadfast and stays excluded from the university sector of higher education. After a well-known graduation cycle, after the well-known project "ATHENA", after universities, all of what the governments have done in recent years, today ASEAN is in real danger of being degraded to a two-year or three-year institution. Today, according to the Ministry of Education's announcements on the new law prepared for higher education, the risk to ASPATE is not fantastic. He's a real man. And that is why: firstly, the pedagogical adequacy, Mr Minister, which ASPATE offers to her studies, has already been removed from the curricula of many university departments and has long been a marketable educational product, particularly expensive. Secondly, the plot and infrastructure of ASPATE, right next to the Ministry of Education, has been integrated since 2012 from the second memorandum, at TIADED, which means that in practice all the elementary educational and research functions of this institution are undermined. On the basis of the above, we ask you, Minister, to tell us what you and your Government intend to do in order for ASPATE to join the university sector of higher education. There are two options here, either as an autonomous institution or as an autonomous school at another university, the NRP in this regard. To give corresponding university degrees, of course, with patented professional rights. Keep - and this is crucial, Minister - the dual nature of ASPATE, and the engineer and the teacher. Ensure that all the conditions for permanent teaching and other staff and for this school, as well as for all university schools suffering from lack of staff, infrastructure, workshops, upgraded single curriculum, continue to be met. And finally, to be given here and now - and this is crucial - the land from TIAD back to the foundation of this school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-26-S1-commons.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-26-S1-commons.u4	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague, for your question. We had spoken before, if I am not mistaken, on this issue at the end of March - the beginning of April, when you asked me that question. And that is where I pointed out - and it is well known - that ASPATE remained outside the university sector on the occasion of Mr Gavroglou, the former Minister of Education. In other words, regardless of the position of the New Democracy, which was against all of Mr Gavroglou's actions, the non-universityisation of ASEAN is not due to the present government, but to the choices made at the time. You were also right to point out that the degree awarded by the departments of ASPACE is not only technical, it confers the right to teach specialty in secondary education, and it is also a diploma of professional qualifications which is equivalent and equal to those of TEIs. And the question is: What now that there are no TEIs in the country? I mentioned to you at the end of March - early April, that I had met with representatives of ASPATE and the administration of ASPATE, and since then I have met other times with graduates of ASPATE, who are particularly active because they are interested in their mother school. And we expect to see a total of what we're going to do with the country's university map. There is a decision that came out on 20 September 2021 that ASPATE proposes to join as a one-stop school at the National Kapodistrian University of Athens entitled "School of Educational Applied Sciences". And the proposal goes on to say that graduates from this school will be able to work as teachers in the basic skills of technical and vocational education - as they are now - teachers, electricians, electronics, engineers, politicians. And this division will take place from the second year onwards. And it also proposes that the decision by ASEAN, that there should be more directions - it calls them flows - within the ETUC. The concern with regard to the proposal is that we have a university, the ETUC, which does not have a multi-technical dimension. Because S.H.I.E.L.E.L.D. has two legs: It's the teaching and it's the polytechnic. In Attica the multi-technical sector heals two university institutions. It is more than a hundred years old the Metsovio Polytechnic and in recent years the University of Western Attica. The University of Athens doesn't have such a tradition. It is also concerned about whether we should open up to a university which does not have such a tradition. However, I shall refer more to a number of other issues relating to URBAN. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-26-S1-commons.u5	Mr. Delis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-26-S1-commons.u6	The truth is, we had discussed this before. You said that, too. It was late March. And after eight months we are coming back precisely because no real answers were given at that time. You said you were in exploratory contact with school officials. Avoid talking about your government's plans and intentions at the time, invoking your consultations with the administration of the school. Today you have tried to give an answer. We hope in your dentistry that you are more specific. You mentioned the proposal from ASPATE - we know it - of the school administration. You mentioned your concerns. You did not tell us what you intend to do, because, as you can see, the matter is as long as the time is near. Of course, you also integrate it into the overall reform of the country's academic map. As to the issue you mentioned about the non-technical nature of the NRP, it is all right that this may also be enrichment of the NRP, depending on how one sees it. In any case, we do not think that is the main issue. The main issue is to make the political decision so that this school can be integrated organicly into a university. You know, we met yesterday, Minister, at ASPATE, and we met with the administration of the school, and we met with the students, with the children and their own agony, we move here today with our question, their anxiety for their studies, for their future. We have also been told that there are serious problems which undermine the functioning of this school. There are outdated laboratory infrastructures. In general, there is an image of subsistence of these buildings. There are tragic shortages of permanent teachers, usually subtracted by contractors, who are also usually hired with a long delay in each academic year. And, of course, the implementation of the minimum import base last year has led to a drastic reduction in the number of people successful in this school. Considering now the new landscape that will be formed after the decisions made by your Government regarding the gravity factors of the courses will generally make it very difficult to introduce a child from the popular layers into a university school. Of course, everything we have said about SAPATE does not only incriminate the government or the leadership of the Ministry of Education. It is also guilty of an entire anti-education policy, which is being expelled from the European Union and a policy that students pay very expensively with degrees categorised, with degrees that are constantly degraded. That is perhaps why the students of ASPATE - you know that, I am sure - have been mobilizing lately, fighting, fighting, fighting - and we are doing well - because they are insensitive to the risk that they are threatened by them in view of the development of the new map of academic education with a tool from the National Higher Education Authority. The government will not appear to be the author of this policy, it will simply be the government who will adopt the proposals of this national authority, so that we, in other words, end up in what the whole world sees, in the universities - anonymous companies, which will trade in knowledge and research and operate at the same time as quasi-minor parts of the business groups, and that, let us not despise it - the social role of science, which, in our opinion, does not leave the development of science unaffected, that is, these changes in the universities themselves. Now in relation to what you said, with SYRIZA's political decision not to incorporate ASPATE and leave her alone as the last remnant of the technological sector, that's what it is. We'd said that back then. We don't understand. We think this choice is incomprehensible. This does not, however, acquit your own government, which has to correct this choice of SYRIZA and integrate the school where it belongs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-26-S1-commons.u7	Mr. Syrigos, here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-26-S1-commons.u8	Thank you very much, Mr President. A general comment, Mr Delis. I know that your party claims to be a party close to the people. We have the same claim, considering that we are also a liberal and popular party, so we are extremely interested in the issue of access to higher education. It is a basic instrument of social development in our country and we are interested in people having access to public free education. As you mentioned earlier and did not comment on it - I have forgotten and apologise - for some communications from the Ministry of Education, to clarify that there has been no communication from the Ministry of Education on higher education issues lately. And because I read things that are circulating in relation to three or two years of study, you too, if I'm not mistaken, refer to your proposal, saying, "to be degraded to a three-year or two-year-old institution"...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-26-S1-commons.u9	I said it in my prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-26-S1-commons.u10	You said it in your prototype, and I apologize for not answering it. Let me clarify this: UNPATE is not IEC. IKUs are two-year-olds. In Greece at the moment we have two years of training and we also have university institutions, which are four years old or five years old and medical six-year training. Because, indeed, I hear things that they say, such as implementing Bologna, implying that this means three-year training programmes, to clarify that Bologna and the European credit transfer and accumulation system, the ECTS, as we call it in recent years, speaks from a hundred and eighty to two hundred forty units. This means three years or four years. It's not the Ministry of Education's intention to go to three years of university education programs. In reply to that question, therefore, it is not a question of two years' training, because UNPATE is not an IEK. DETAILED as a higher school is a four-year training. As far as the number of teachers is concerned, ASPATE, if I'm not mistaken, has fifty two members of the LFS, eleven LFS and one LFS. In the last year two LPIS members were assigned seventy hours of pay and there are still seventy new posts this year. Also, on the basis of the transfers, three teachers were transferred to ASAPTE. I am saying this because there is no indifference with regard to URBAN. There's anguish about her future. We want it to be something serious, which will respond to today's data. Today's students have nothing to worry about. They will normally complete their studies into what they have entered and studied. As far as the future is concerned, I really see it in combination with another university institution. We are concerned, however, with what is the most appropriate institution, with which ASAPTE could proceed and the conditions under which this could be done. These will be known with the announcement of the new university map of the country, I suppose - I appreciate - from the new year. Until then, I reserve more to answer you in order to have a better picture of what we will do as a whole with the country's university map. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-26-S1-commons.u11	We move to the first with number 201/18-11-2021 in the first cycle of the SYRIZA MP Mr.Georgios Psychogios to the Minister of Climate Crisis and Civil Protection, on the subject: "Inadmissible inactivity in the operation of the new Climax of Xylokastro and the anti-nuclear shield of the wider region". The question will be answered by the Minister responsible, Evangelos Tournas. Mr. Psychoyte, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-26-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Good morning, everyone. Minister, by the way, I wish you success in your new duties. I return to the matter because the written question we submitted on 23 April 2021 was not answered by the Ministry that you succeed and precisely because it is a crucial issue we want concrete answers. According to the previous government's joint ministerial decision of 10 June 2019, the Karyotikas-based Fire Scale and sixty-five thousand acres, forests and urban areas have been established, which have been threatened and repeatedly affected by fires. To date, however, even though all the necessary procedures have been launched by the municipality - there is universal acceptance of local society - its operation has not been carried out, in a way detrimental to the safety of residents and property, but also to the protection of the exceptional and beauty of the region. Since, therefore, the needs of the wider region are great, the services of firefighting need to be strengthened immediately because of the climate crisis and natural disasters - floods, fires, etc. - shield people, property, infrastructure and, of course, the sixty-five thousand acres covered by the step, because, with the completion of the major projects of the Corinth-Patras motorway and suburban, the visitability of the area has increased vertically, both in summer and winter months, we are now asking for answers and immediate actions by giving you specific questions. Why don't the operation of the Climbwood firefighting system proceed immediately? What's the exact timeline? What are your moves in this direction to date, as it has been about two and a half years since its establishment, since the joint ministerial decision? Have you taken the necessary steps to ensure that the new step has the necessary infrastructure and resources, as well as adequate staff through recruitment or use of the staff already employed? Thank you. I will return to my dentistry with more.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-26-S1-commons.u13	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-26-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today is a special day for me, since I am addressing the Greek Parliament for the first time since this official Step. This was after the honour of the Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the Minister of Climate Crisis and Civil Protection Mr Christos Stylianidis to assign me the specific portfolio of the Deputy Minister responsible for the exercise of the powers of the Firehouse in the newly established Ministry of Climate Crisis and Civil Protection. First of all, I would like to present my first presence here to you my personal respect for the exercise of parliamentary control and the general institutional function of Parliament as a real temple of democracy. In this context, and always in the light of consensus and availability for sincere dialogue, I assure you that I will be before you with responsibility and with documented positions, because the issues of the Fire Corps as part of the highly neural portfolio of the climate crisis and civil protection require harmony and the development of strategies for consensual and consensus. But let's go to the particular issues that you raised through your timely question. The Firefighting Climax of Xylokastro, based in Xylokastro in the Municipality of Xylokastro - Eurostine of the Regional Unit of Corinthia was established with 28502/10-6-2019 a joint ministerial decision of the Government of SYRIZA with the explicit provision regarding the command to be made by the existing organic force of the Firefighting Body. In accordance with the decision of the City Council of Xylokastro - Eurostin on the need to establish this stadium and recommend the use of the building site of Karyotikos City School for the needs of housing and operational needs of this stadium, a three-member committee was set up by executives of the Peloponnese PPC in accordance with 27446/14-5-2021 of the Technical Support and Infrastructure Directorate of the Headquarters of the Firehouse in order to carry out an autopsy to determine the suitability of the building. This has been done in accordance with the definitions set out in No. 2. 3483/8-2-2012 decision of the Chief of Firehouse on the definition of technical specifications of buildings, fire-fighting vehicles and other mechanical fire-fighting equipment and rescue equipment in the voluntary fire-fighting services, which I present in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Climate Crisis and Civil Protection, Evangelos Tournas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] In the context of this fitness check by the committee responsible and in line with the practice of 26 May 2021 - which I present, please, in the Minutes - it was found that the facilities of the above controlled area were not suitable for some essential deficiencies. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Climate Crisis and Civil Protection, Evangelos Tournas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] In particular, it was found that the need to build a fire-fighting station, to repair the external fence from a front-end wire, as well as to furnish with the furniture provided for in the relevant order. As a result, the commander of the Sikyon Fire Service - Kiatou has not been able to receive the buildings in question, nor to sign the delivery protocol in question. Since then, the Sykion-Kitatos Fire Service has been monitoring the removal of the observations that it says to date that part of the fence has been built and the concrete floor of the car park without the required roofing and the planned furniture, while in contact with the Municipality of Xylokastro - Eurostin and awaiting the completion of the work on delivery - reception of the building. Nevertheless, I think it is advisable to tell you that in recent years our Ministry has made sure that the wider area of Corinthia is strengthened by the following services and personnel: we have the management of the Corinthian Fire Services, the Corinthian Fire Service, the Kiatos Fire Service - Sikynos and the Perachonas and Eurostine fire brigades. Also, since 2020, the seasonal fire gradients of Sophia, Chile, Saints Theodoros, Nemea and Fenou were founded and operate during the anti-missile period, as well as the voluntary fire tile of Stymfalia. Accordingly, they serve staff in the abovementioned services in 2018 amounted to sixty-three members, in 2019 to two hundred thirty-nine and in 2020 and 2021 to eighty-seven and eighty-six respectively. So we have an 80% increase compared to 2018 and 20% compared to 2019. Ladies and gentlemen, at this point I close my prototype by saying that our Ministry through the Fire Corps has already significantly strengthened the Corinthian Law with services and personnel in line with the available global forces throughout the territory and the risk criteria of each region, and it is therefore shown that in the last two years the needs of the Corinthian Prefecture have been properly assessed and dealt with and, if the necessary conditions have been met, the Xylokastro Firehouse would have been installed and equipped with the existing organic force without any new recruitment required for this purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-26-S1-commons.u15	Mr. Psychogios has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-26-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, this is precisely an area which has specific characteristics and which, for the whole of the prefecture and for the whole country, is the extreme phenomena and the climate crisis. It is our duty to take such initiatives and interventions, even when many voluntary groups in the region offer a worthwhile task and to prevent and deal with fires and natural disasters, and to create and operate the stadium was - and I have personally handled the issue - a demand from the local community for the protection of residents and professionals, the protection of the biodiversity of the environment and the development of Western Corinthia. In this sense, there were successive municipal council decisions both with the previous composition and with the new composition after 2019. And, indeed, the latter is the 277/2019, which I will also present in the Minutes, by which the municipality in question registers the "PHILIDIS II" programme and the realisation of projects and investment activities, a very successful programme of the SYRIZA Government, a EUR 73 thousand budget for the restoration, support and equipment of this stage, which you understand that about two years later there is no tolerance for starting it. From now on, this is also a request from the firefighters themselves, who are called on all the time - and so it must be - to provide their services, to have a modernisation of fire-fighting and stairways, to have an operational breakdown throughout the county for better results, and this obviously has nothing to do with the residents and professionals of the wood-dog - Eurostine, it has to do with all the prefecture, and with Geranias and Schinos and with the Chilean and Sophia that you mentioned and with the Athenians affected by recent fires in total, in order to protect the plant and human capital of the prefecture. It is therefore unacceptable and completely unjustified two and a half years later that works of general interest should not be carried out. And it's not the only thing in your department. Many of the things that were integrated and funded by the previous government concerning social policy, infrastructure and the improvement of quality of life have not been advanced by the municipalities. This is, of course, more about the Ministry of Interior. I am coming back, then, and I say that it is really extremely critical and unexplainable, despite the fact that you told us about the specifications, which should have been settled, both for the safety and protection of the area and for upgrading the services of the firefighting industry, that this has not been completed. So we call on you - and I close with this - to move forward and speed up the processes, because in these circumstances with the climate crisis, having all of this to deal with, people being charged and having difficulty on a daily basis, at least it must see these works of general interest, its protection, its security to go ahead and we cannot play with the protection of people, residents and infrastructure, whether we are a ministry, whether we are a regional administration, or anyone who wants to involve or prevent such a process. It will therefore be burdened by anyone who suspends any damage or problem in the next two and a half years - I repeat - in this area. Thank you again, I wish the work well.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-26-S1-commons.u17	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-26-S1-commons.u18	As I mentioned in my prototype, there are some basic loose ends for which the municipality has been informed and which should be eliminated. It is not possible, in other words, to place the step over there without becoming the rooftop and some other basics, which are prerequisites for creating the step. So it would have been done, it would have been inaugurated, it would have been inaugurated, it would have worked and it would have been all right if the work had been completed, which - I repeat - were necessary. Nevertheless, since you have spoken about the climate crisis and about the municipality's resolutions, I would like to say a few words to you, because in recent years we have experienced climate change, which is a global phenomenon and has a significant impact on the Mediterranean basin and, of course, on our country. It manifests itself with high temperatures and drought during summer months, as well as intense and extreme weather conditions in winter. As a result of this climate change, we are increasingly faced with large fires in the summer and flooding phenomena in winter. I understand, therefore, the interest and concern of local societies, local government and also local Members of Parliament to shield their region against the risks to the protection of life, property, infrastructure and, of course, the protection of the environment and our forest wealth. I would like to point out here that, this year alone, the demands from municipalities, local bodies and other local political representatives to the Fire Executive for the establishment of new fire-fighting services and for upgrading existing scales in services have already reached sixty. But I believe that every case should not be dealt with in detail, but in the context of a more general operational planning, which concerns the whole of the territory, particularly taking into account the specific nature of our country as an island country, as well as the particular characteristics of each region, its inclusion in the risk map, soil morphology, the existence of sensitive and critical infrastructure, economic activity, the history of fires and statistics in general. In order to address this new climate change situation, therefore, the Government has set up the new Ministry of Climate Crisis and Civil Protection with Law 4662/2020 and on this basis we form the national crisis management mechanism, we are reorganising the General Secretariat for Civil Protection by joining this pillar of the climate crisis, upgrading the system of civil protection volunteering and reorganising the Firehouse. With regard to the latter, I am aware that a working group was set up from 22 March 2021 with a decision of the Chief of Fire Force with a view to: First, the development of the methodology and criteria for determining the minimum number of personnel to be assigned to fire-fighting services, fire-fighting stations and fire-fighting steps, shifts, administrative services. Secondly, the tabling of a thorough and documented study - a proposal for the amount of the required organic force of the Firehouse in its organic units, central regional and specific services. And thirdly, a comprehensive and documented proposal on the possibility of categorizing organic units at the PPP level - Region and IPPP - Law, depending on their level of performance. This working party has interrupted work on its staff involvement in dealing with the major fires of last summer and following on from what I have just said. As it is my personal priority that the reorganisation of the Fire Corps and the organisational structure of each service should be able to respond to the fulfilment of its mission rapidly and efficiently, I instructed from the end of September to relaunch the work of the committee, which, on 16 November, presented to me the progress of its work with the presence of the entire leadership of the Fire Corps. In the debate that followed, the committee has now been given directives at the final stage for the completion of its work and after the final presentation and approval, this study - which is almost ready - will form the basis for a fire-fighting body with a structure and organisation needed, so that it can respond directly and effectively to the new data that climate change brings with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-26-S1-commons.u19	We close with the third with No 210/22-11-2021 top-level question by MP B1's North Athens section of Mera25 Mr. Klonas Gregoriadis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on "Digital platforms deliverry: Unacceptable labour practices continue." The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister Panagiotis Tsakloglou. Mr. Gregoriadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-26-S1-commons.u20	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much, Mr Minister, for being here as always to answer our questions. Minister, today is a storm outside. I also came down with my motorcycle from New Heraklion where I live here to ask the question about these poor people, the distributors who work at WOLT and EFOD. I know that you are a good man, with good intentions, and I say it on account of knowledge, and I have come here in the slightest opposition mood. I have come here trying to motivate you to help these people who are, Minister, I assure you, in a working middle ages. You know, the two digital platforms, e-food and wolt, literally treasure the goodwill of these people, who work in conditions of excellent job precariousness - you know it, and the whole society, so it stood next to them the other day - in conditions of exceptional risk of hacking, hitting or killing, and with unacceptablely low wages. But that is not enough, Minister. For a while now, a reasonable space, long enough - it is longer than time - companies thought to load more roles and other work items outside the contractual obligations of distributors. So they decided to do something illegal, in our opinion. They decided to give them a deposit card in bank accounts to go after their distribution job, become cashiers and collectors. That is, they first collect and then cashiers become. They go to the bank and deposit the money, don't lose a penny or polyethnic from interest. It's what people are doing. They didn't complain about that either. Then, every little bit, every day, they come a liquidation that says to them: "You, Gregoriadis..." - I use my name - "...you didn't pay off. You stole 10 euros, 30 euros, 50 euros and I demand it immediately." If they don't do it in 30 working days, they're off the platform. They're unemployed. They're fired without any excuse. And if the sum exceeds a certain amount - I think it is 300 euros or something like that - they are fired at the same time, i.e. once this has been established. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. Watch out for something now. The sums are requested orally without the slightest presentation of any evidence and, indeed, if the amount exceeds what I have told you. Following calls from distributors to provide explanations from the company, all they received in response, Minister, was again oral assurances that in the ultimate future, some sort of liquidation will take place and any differences resulting from the company's dues will be attributed back. I mean, if the company badly asked, it'll give them back. But they don't say when. They say "everyone in the century"! The distributors are, after all, not only called upon to undertake tasks outside their contractual obligations and without any guarantee, but they are also required to pay the company inevitably - and, in our view, this constitutes criminal law - so that they can continue to work. On the basis of the above, Mr Minister, what action do you intend to take as a ministry - and I would like to believe why I know you intend - that workers will only be employed in the tasks provided for in their contract. That's how it's done in the entire civilized world. Secondly, what steps do you intend to take to regulate the unconscious working regime on these digital platforms, that is not to allow them with legal initiatives to tell me that while I am a distributor, at the same time I am also a collector and a cashier? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-26-S1-commons.u21	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-26-S1-commons.u22	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Mr Gregriadis, I would like to start more generally. What we often say is a gig economicy, a platform economy, is a new working reality that offers flexibility to businesses, but also to workers. Digital work platforms bring innovation, create jobs and enhance competitiveness. The main thing may be that they offer additional income to workers, including those for whom access to the labour market can be quite difficult. You know that. According to a recent OECD report published last year entitled "Regulating platform work in the digital image" - translating, "Adjusting work through platforms in the digital age" - the work through platforms is considered to be a mode of employment of limited scope at present, but with considerable dynamics, which was particularly strengthened during the pandemic period. Employment through a platform has created a new grid of relationships between employers and workers, as the limits between wage earners and self-employment become indiscriminate. It is precisely at this point that there is a risk of circumvention of labour rights, which you have also suggested. Throughout Europe, the States are trying to adopt new employment protection policies that meet the conditions. In fact, I would like to say here that in most countries a corresponding arrangement has not yet been made. Greece was one of the first countries to regulate the work on the platforms. In our country, the working reality created by the platforms was first dealt with by the current government by extending the rights to workers and without any retreat to existing rights. In particular, Article 69 of Law 4808/2021 lays down very specific criteria on the basis of which it distinguishes whether a contract is an independent contract or a leased contract and also rights were granted to those who had an independent partner or provider status which did not have them before. In particular, in order to assume that a person is employed under an independent service contract, four cumulative criteria must be applied. The first is to be able to assign the work undertaken to subcontractors or third parties, i.e. the personal provision of the project is not necessary. The second is to be able to refuse to carry out the work requested by the platform. The third is to be able to connect and disconnect from the platform whenever it wants and for as long as it wants, and the fourth is to be able to provide services on a competitive platform. If these four criteria do not apply, the presumption in favour of independent services shall not apply. Therefore, the employees, when all four criteria are not met, can much easier to ask for recognition that they are linked to the platform under a conditional labour contract. Moreover, even those who work under independent services are granted rights for the first time. These are three specific rights. The first is to establish trade unions, to enter into collective bargaining and to conclude collective agreements. The second is to strike. Although self-employed, they are entitled to this right. And the third is to require the platforms with which to cooperate in respect of health and safety rules and to cover expenditure relating to the provision of the project, namely fuel, helmet protection, maintenance costs and so on. And not just that. The platforms are obliged to inform their partners of these rights. Therefore, Mr Gregoryiadis, on the part of the Government and the Ministry of Labour, very serious steps have been taken towards regulating this new working landscape, which the previous government had chosen to leave unregulated. No provision of the new law gives the right to platforms - something that is right on your question - to unilaterally amend the employment status of distributors without complying with specific criteria. The platform that recently attempted to do so was not based on the Hatzidakis law, as some people often claim. On the contrary, because of the Hatzidakis Act, what is being proposed to the workers has become illegal and that is where they fell. I will continue in my dentext on this matter and your other questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-26-S1-commons.u23	Mr. Gregoriadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-26-S1-commons.u24	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I listened with caution and accept the main reasoning that the platforms are new inventions and it takes time to deal with all the outstanding issues. We dealt with it the other day in discussions with the compilers and compilers, to whom the platforms do not grant rights and it is a very important problem. She's abstentioned, by the way. However, the reason why I am here this morning and ask this question is this situation that I described to you. It means, in my humble opinion, that, from the outset, the arrangements you have made, with a good purpose, I say, so far have not achieved what is expected. I accept and hope it takes a little more time. But I'm worried. I will also tell you this, Minister, and believe me that it is important. Your Government has turned the Labour Inspectorate into an independent authority and has not only turned it into an independent authority, but has subordinated it. I guess they've been subordinated anyway, as we've been spending twelve years of memoirs. However, the independent authority at the moment, according to all indications, is of course subordinated and therefore cannot replace the Labour Inspectorate. The distributors therefore tell the Minister their problem with Mr Hatzidakis, and the Minister refers them to the inspection. The inspection when the distributors go there - I read from the information I have - tells them they don't have any staff and send them back to the Ministry. That reminds us of Anna and Kaiapha. I understand that all subsecution is due to all the Memorandum Governments. I understand this whole grid. But here, things are not theoretical. These people, Minister, have accidents every day. These people have been working in cruel conditions and it is indicative - let me say this too - that we have tabled an amendment and reinstate it in every bill that has been going through for a few weeks. It's very simple. Heavy and unhealthy meanings for these people. I'm looking into your eyes. Do you ever imagine that these people may not deserve heavy and unhealthy meanings? Have you seen them work under which circumstances, under what weather, with what machines, with what motorcycles and with what maintenance? Do you really think they don't deserve heavy and unhealthy? Because if you don't believe it - and I think common sense says it - why don't you join us? Do your thing, do not say that it is our amendment, we do not care at all. We're interested in people having heavy and unhealthy. We are interested in answering questions. You told me what happened. I would like you to tell me what you intend to do from now on, in other words, that a person who is disgusting at their expense every month tells me: 'You owe me EUR 100, 200, 300, 400', completely arbitrarily, Mr Minister, without a documentary proving it. Because they think so, or so they imagined, or actually owe them, I don't know what. But in a favoured state there should be a documentary proving it, Minister, that "you owe them, because I have this paper that proves you owe them, not because it smoked me in the morning when I woke up, I am boss and you owe them, because I say so." Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-26-S1-commons.u25	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-26-S1-commons.u26	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Gregoriadis, I would like to start with something methodological. The independent authorities are much stronger than some ministry services. You know, too, that traditionally every time, from unfriendly businessmen to the government, we heard two complaints. What were the complaints? The targeted tax controls and that the Labour Inspectorate would make me a leaf and a feather and where they didn't need to. The AIA, the tax office, has become an independent authority. Have you heard these complaints before? Oh, no. So we hope that it will also be done with the Independent Labour Inspectorate now. With regard to staffing issues and all the rest of the information you have said, it is no different to the situation now in the Ministry of Labour. The new beginning has not yet been staffed. The traditional RCF still makes all checks, etc. I should now come to the contents of your question. You are actually presenting a labour market where workers are unprotected and employers are engaged in those arbitrary desires without being accountable to anyone for anything. That is not the case, and I think you know that. The labour market has obviously changed greatly in recent years, which is why it is the responsibility of the favoured state to recognise the problems directly and to intervene in time with institutional initiatives to help improve working conditions. In your question you raise an issue relating to company practice to ask distributors to take over tasks outside their contractual obligations. You say that the platforms obliges them to deposit the cash-pays daily and then the companies question the correctness of these transactions in an arbitrary manner. This issue is the subject of the Labour Inspectorate, but for whom? It is for those who have a dependent employment relationship, otherwise it is a dispute that is resolved judicially, without the intervention of the Labour Inspectorate. Now we're going to something that's the most important of all. According to the information we have had from the relevant APRC services, no complaint has been made on this matter - if you have, I would be happy to look into it - at any APRC branch throughout the territory. In fact, knowing that you put the question, I asked them to check it for a second time and those who told me that there had been no complaint from an employee, so where should I intervene?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-26-S1-commons.u27	I'm sorry, but here in the House, we were told. They're afraid, Minister. They're afraid to make a complaint because there's scary competition.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-26-S1-commons.u28	Mr. Gregoryde, how can I proceed to a complaint or anything? How should I go? What am I supposed to do?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-26-S1-commons.u29	Our institutional role...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-26-S1-commons.u30	I understand you about this thing you're saying, but you have to start with a complaint. In other words, this opportunity was given to trade and was given very well. We have set these very strict criteria here that we have said that if you do not fulfil all of these other things, you cannot be self-employed, you must be employed. From that point on, however, I cannot go beyond that limit. No distributor has denounced, in other words, his employer in the Labour Inspectorate as having to carry out tasks beyond what is provided for in his contract. You realise how crucial it is for distributors' work safety to establish criteria that I have analysed in my prototype, so that they cannot be employed as independent professionals unless very specific criteria are met. Let me also remind you that, in accordance with the provisions of another article, Article 71 of the Treaty. 4808 which I mentioned earlier, digital platforms have vis-à-vis distributors of services, which are natural persons and are linked to independent services or work contracts, creates the same welfare, health and safety obligations that they would have and to them if they were linked to them as a contract of employment. In other words, it is another policy of the protection of workers that is included in the unacceptable - perhaps, in your opinion - the Hatzidakis Act, which is responsible for these, as you are saying, arbitrary in the labour market. You may think that such employment undermines traditional employment relationships which are governed by a stable and long-term character. But you refuse in this way to accept that at the same time with this reality there is another picture, the one offering employment opportunities to a part of the workforce that was most likely excluded under different circumstances. You refuse to accept, in other words, that the flexibility afforded to both businesses and workers enables both parties to adapt to their different needs each time, as they choose how many and whom they will work, and when and how many will work. It is true that the economy of the platform, the gig economics, will obviously concern us in the coming years, as will all other changes in the labour market. Changes in the labour market are taking place all the time, Mr Gregoryiadis, and indeed the state's duty, every favoured state, is to be there to protect workers, while at the same time not adding too much weight to businesses, and that is what we will continue to do. With all the work done so far in the Ministry of Labour, especially during the pandemic period, I think we have shown that we are practically supporting the world of work, which will obviously continue to do, no matter how fluid the new data is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-26-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-26-S1-commons.u32	With the consent of the House at 10.16 p.m., the sitting on Monday, November 29, 2021, at 14.00, on the subject of this House's work, parliamentary scrutiny: a) the debate on Question No 4/2/11-2021 of the current question to the Minister of Health and b) the topical and urgent debate.
