ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Justice: 'Institutional Law of the Court of Auditors and other related regulations'. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 15 July 2021 to discuss and vote for the draft Single Act in principle, articles and all. The debate will take place with a combination of physical presence and participation of Members through the Webex teleconference services. In particular, with a natural presence, special speakers, as well as parliamentarians and MPs, will participate in a six-member cycle, with one speaker from each Parliamentary Group and two-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-man-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-man-one-one-one-one-one-man-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-man-one-one-man-one-one-one-man-one-one-man-one-one-man-one-one-man-one-one-one-one-man-one-man-one-one-one-one-man-man-man-man-man-one-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-na, three-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-n-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man-man Those of the above Members wish to participate by teleconferencing through the 'Webex' platform. The name of the speaker has already been assigned by the Parliamentary Groups by letters and the competent authority has drawn up a list to be distributed to you. I would remind you that speakers who will be put through a teleconferencing conference will speak as soon as the speakers' cycles are completed in a natural presence. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u2	The House has agreed. The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Dimitris Kouvelas, has the floor for 15 minutes. I would ask that the time be respected by all the speakers, be they rapporteurs, special farmers, parliamentary representatives or Members of Parliament, and, of course, by the ministers. You have the floor, Mr. Kouvella.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u3	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the bill in the committees that preceded it was very constructive. They have heard considerable views from all sides of Parliament, from all parties. After all, we are discussing the organization with the new organic law of the Supreme Financial Court of the country, the Court of Auditors, and it comes on its initiative with the Ministry of Justice to complete the reform that will give the Court of Auditors the room to uncover all the possibilities imposed by the highest courts in our country, following modern practices with a framework of legislation that will give him all these opportunities. In the debate the draft law brought together not so much political comments, but mainly important - I would say - legal and practical comments, especially at the hearing of the bodies. The Ministry of Justice's political leadership has demonstrated once again that it intends to listen to and intervene, by correcting and improving points of the draft laws that it proposes, where necessary. So it seems that we will have a final adjustment to Article 9(5), which has caused a great deal of discussion and concerned the Court of Auditors' audit role in the finances of legal persons governed by public law, of a social nature, such as the scientific bodies in our country. Minister, this draft law by the Ministry of Justice would be a sign of good legislation in practice as well as during the parliamentary procedure in committee by reassessing provisions on the part of your Ministry. This is the way in which the addition to Rule 178 of the new paragraph 2 of the report on the acceleration of pensions pending before the Court of Auditors comes today. There are other points on which we are waiting for the final wording of the provisions of the draft law before the resolution which are currently being passed and which will then result in the contributions made by the parties' rapporteurs. I cannot comment on this point and on the important legislative initiative that comes with the amendment on the mandatory vaccination of very specific categories of our fellow citizens to whom each and every one of us trust our own health and health of our loved ones. It goes without saying that it is time to go into the final straight ahead of this great national effort of the "Freedom" campaign to shield public health against the COVID pandemic. The ship has a worthy captain, as it has proved in recent months, of the furtu. But we're just out of the port. We're getting closer. There's a final storm. So there is no room for hesitation, there is no room for ambiguity, there is no room for 'yes, but' there is no room for backwards. We all move forward in front of each other together. I'm going back to the bill we're discussing. The new organic law on the Court of Auditors comes, at exactly the right time, as I said before introductory terms, as both the best organic staffing of our country's Supreme Financial Court and its proper operational and procedural organisation are necessary in view of the management of the resources of the Recovery Fund and the important role that the Supreme Court will be invited to play in the framework of pre-contractual audits in the next period, as is apparent from Article 12 of the relevant amendment tabled by the Treasury and literally linked to the arrangements of the draft law that we are discussing. The new Organic Law on the Court of Auditors introduces provisions modernising this very important institution for Greek justice, mainly seeking to upgrade the required legal certainty environment. Only with such interventions will justice enjoy a smooth function and fulfil its main objectives. The restoration of the prestige of the top institutions of the country that have been deceived in the eyes of citizens over the past years is more than critical and imposed, especially in the difficult times of the pandemic. This draft law contributes in this direction, as it reassessses and shields justice by introducing a modern legislative framework to the Court of Auditors fully compatible with the current needs of a rule of law that knows its limits and is respected by everyone. The most optimistic, however, in all this, is the fact that the opposition also contributes positively towards the final vote on the new organisational framework for the Court of Auditors. The political system must show to society that there is no room for barren controversy and insignificant micro-communism. I would say with satisfaction that even the Communist Party of Greece recognises that modernisation is taking place in the Court of Auditors' institution with the draft law under discussion. So after Law 4700/2020 last summer, passed at the National Representation, dealing with the necessary changes in the functioning of the Court of Auditors by adopting uniform procedural rules, we are now in the process of discussing an integrated law to which the Court of Auditors will be subject and all procedural organic and operational issues will be regulated. A law for which the first to express his wish to establish was the Court's own officials and officials. Ladies and gentlemen, one of the time-consuming diseases of the Greek public system still remains to a large extent the inability to achieve the necessary linkage of the provisions, very fundamental institutions which make up public administration. A codification that would improve the everyday life of all those involved, whether indirectly or directly, with public bodies would make this everyday life better, but would also improve the efficiency of the administration. This is precisely what this legislative initiative on the Court of Auditors and its functioning achieves and where it has influence and influence. A modern system of budgetary responsibility is being introduced. It is in practice an application of the principles of proportionality, transparency and fair balance. Let us not forget, the citizen is entitled, I could say that he is even obliged to know where the last euro he trusts in the state is going. Only in this way will confidence in their relationships return and restore the suspicion that had been caused in previous years. This is, therefore, an integrated intervention that increases the validity of the Court of Auditors, now joining one of the most modern high-ranking public courts internationally. This draft law to which I am going to refer here to my report as a whole consists of three sections and eighty-six articles. In the first section of Articles 1 to 167, organic rules for the Court of Auditors are incorporated for the first time, while at the same time its possibilities for providing high-level information and cooperation with Parliament on budgetary and pension issues are being upgraded. Issues relating to the nature of the institution, its role, its task, its harmony with international good practices, which are increasingly integrated. It is very important that the multi-dimensional functioning of the Court of Auditors should now emerge at the level of judicial, administrative, advisory and physical control. Clear rules are introduced in his relations with Parliament, general government bodies, local government and other legal entities governed by public law. The new codified provisions illustrate the organisational and operational scope of the Court of Auditors and make it clearer at the level of court its function, both for judicial officers and for lawyers and for the workers themselves, because there were issues which were dealt with by satisfying the Court of Auditors' employees as well. In the second section, Articles 168 to 159 shall be replaced by provisions of Law 4700/2020 which shall be repealed and introduced ten new articles containing arrangements to speed up pre-contractual control, the compulsory introduction of digital procedures to the court and the establishment of arrangements related to the powers of the General Committee of the State. There are global issues that deal with pre-contractual control, deposits and performance by electronic means and the development of special software for quick and more transparent procedures before the Court of Auditors. In accordance with the third section of Articles 180 to 186, other budgetary matters are dealt with. There are issues which have to do with the operational costs of first-degree local government and also with write-offs and adjustments of outstanding debts to the public, which have been so afflicting our budgets in recent years with make-up numbers that make it difficult for the landscape to be clean in front of both the government and the citizens. I insist that this draft law is a reform section. Along with Law 4700/2020, they now make the functioning of the supreme court easier and makes life easier for both the judicial officers in the Court of Auditors and the civil servants. More generally, it also becomes more understandable for the citizens controlled on issues that are judged by the Court of Auditors. His environment becomes more friendly and accessible to even more lawyers. We were told by the institutions at our meeting. We can also see the extent of the offer from the modernisation of the Court of Auditors in practice. We will see it very soon in the future. The problems of nature, independence, object, great court matter, slow rules of justice, the need to digitalise important procedures and, of course, the high costs, costs for citizens, in addition to the psycho-corruption procedures that they are experiencing, make the organisation of such a great institution, one of the three highest courts in the country, our highest financial court, more enforced than ever. Seeing such intervention, Minister, the words of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis come to my mind two years ago in the 2019 programming statements. They said then that Greece will be another country in two years. I am sure that the majority of Greek citizens have already seen the important changes in their daily lives for the better this two-year period, although this is certainly a difficult period of geopolitical tension, pandemic and global economic turbulence. With legislative intervention such as today, we can say that in the area of justice, our country already enjoys a new landscape. I would remind you at this point that under the previous Court of Auditors Act, Law No 4700, an eleven-member legislative committee had been set up to draw up this organic law on the Court of Auditors. The committee has completed its work successfully. The contribution of all political parties to the work of the committee was very important. The proposed provisions are thus now incorporated into a single legislative text covering horizontally what is applicable to the Court of Auditors. The Committee's opinion and its work was to achieve four very basic objectives. The coherence between these regulations, by removing the contradictions that have arisen, the adaptation of the existing rules to the newer data from the constitutional case-law of the Court of Auditors, the case-law of the Court of Justice of the European Union and the European Court of Human Rights. Thirdly, the aim is to complete legislative gaps in order to ensure that fundamental rights for controlled persons are defended while aligning them with international good control practice. Fourth objective is to upgrade the cooperation between the Court of Auditors and Parliament to provide the National Delegation with high-level technical information and assistance on budgetary and pension issues. It was therefore necessary to provide for the reorganisation of the Court of Auditors in order to adapt its structure to the current requirements and needs of the time. The above objectives are ensured by this initiative of the Ministry of Justice, an initiative that comes to be added to the extremely critical interventions of the previous period. It is therefore an undeniable need to offer citizens the opportunity, the framework for more quality justice, the effective application of judicial rules, to safeguard and strengthen the principles of the rule of law and, of course, the leading institution of justice to take its place in the conscience of the citizens. For the Government of New Democracy, justice is primarily a pillar of our democracy. In addition, its good operation is a catalyst of growth and progress on the one hand, an incentive to attract investment on the other. It is therefore very important that we defend and shield the institutions of justice, justice itself. I will conclude, Mr President, with a saying by Emperor Ferdinand in the 16th century, which I think fits entirely with today's reform and discussion of the draft law on the Court of Auditors, which he said at the time: 'Let the world be given good justice'. I call on you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote in favour of this draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u4	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. Mr Hatzigiannakis, rapporteur of SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u5	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me today of the honour that the people of Evia have given me to enable me to begin my position at the Step of this House, not on parliamentary issues, not on political issues but on sports. Since yesterday morning, when I came to see a representative of our country, our people being number one, going up to the top of the world, and I felt incredible thrill at that time not only with thousands of millions of our compatriots, but also people all over the world who are enchanting about sport, keeping them and resting them, I felt my duty to refer to it today just in the step that the Greek people have given me the opportunity to be. I don't do it to hear it apparently, because he won't hear it either. I'm doing it because it's a special case. It's a very special case, this particular athlete and all his family. I'm doing it because of the thrill I felt, I'm sure it was too many who felt it. He is an athlete who was born in Greece in 1994. Immigrants from Nigeria, for many years illegal people, came here and built their family, a family that I, at least, would like when I made my own family to have such examples, to give these examples to my children, because it seems from their moral belief that what they have achieved, achieved with hard work and, above all, on the hard road, on the way they had to. The issue, however, which concerns me over time not only today, is simply the reason for today, is, in fact, what a message we are giving and what a attitude we must hold towards these people. He had to be eighteen years old in 2013 to be awarded Greek citizenship. I insist that he was born here, he was not born, as Mr Georgiadis said at some point in a TV panel in Nigeria, who did not know his name, I hope he has now learned it, as he has learned almost all the world has learned. I am concerned that there are thousands of children who do not have the talent of this particular, thousands of children who are here today living among us and how we make an environment to welcome them, to become part of our society, to promote and develop our society and our own Greeks and Greeks and foreign children who are here, are children all over the world. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I really thought I had to make this report. I hope that our country and our culture will improve with the flag of these people. And I wish the next step - and I am sure - of this athlete with his other three brothers to be to celebrate a title with the national team I am sure they want it very much. With great honor, they lift the Greek flag from small, not just now. They have made known Greece, because when they see it billions of people underneath it writes Greece, it writes Greek. Everyone knows it's Greek. The whole world knows it's Greek and he says it proudly. Of course he's proud of his parents' origin, and he's fine. I think what will move us even more is when he and his brothers - and I hope it will be done very soon - an Olympic, a global, a European medal with the colors of the national one. I am sure he will try as few and I hope it will be done very soon. Now let's go to the bill, because I don't want to blame the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u6	Mr Colleagues, allow me to interrupt your time - and let you know that we are all adopting what you have said. In '13 I had the honour of being at the Ministry of the Interior with Mr. Stylianides and we awarded citizenship to the Adentokunbo brothers. It helped the legislative framework, as we had shaped...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u7	Exceptionally, you did well.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u8	Listen. Let me finish. It also helped the legislative framework that the previous PASOK government with Minister, Mr Ragosi, had made the first framework for citizenship, which we adopted, improved and done. So you see that it's a national pride and over and over the parties. That was the policy of our government at the time and, of course, the policy before the PASOK government, such legislation that conqueres athletes. Please, Mr. Comrade, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u9	Mr President, this is how it happened. Indeed, the legislative framework on the PASOK government was a clear improvement of the existing one, which - if you want my legal opinion and my political opinion - was completely wrong. It's improved. Unfortunately, despite the fact that exceptionally, it should not be an exception, and that is precisely why I am making this intervention today, it should not be an exception, it should be the rule.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u10	Let us not now talk about the law of citizenship. Let's move on. Your time has to start.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u11	The time of my speech may begin, I will limit it to the issues of the bill. So I think that just this example to us that we have and to give an example, we have a responsibility to the Greek people to be the boulevard and to be concerned about how we have legislated and how we have beenhaved against thousands of other people who have not had the opportunity to be 2,13 to have this commitment and that character. And I'm moving on to the issues of the bill. Minister, I sincerely believe that you have made a foul and allow me to speak. In a bill which, in fact - and I am glad that the majority rapporteur, Mr Kouvella, said so, and all of your colleagues and the Deputy Minister and you in your speech have said so - are in a positive direction, congratulations have been given to the CouncU and all the interventions of all the parties have been made to improve the legislation and, indeed, to your colleagues I must admit that they have done a very serious job and have heard the comments, because we have discussed them on how best the framework of the organic law of the Court of Auditors will be, and you have considered it appropriate in such a process that has taken place at all the meetings, to answer Mr Blondopoulos to some absolutely good remarks he has made and said, ironically, it may not be ironic, because the laughter you had considered it ironic, I may be wrong...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u12	It's the mask.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u13	...and present to us the work done by your Government on the digitisation of the courts and the e-justice. Minister, we're not kids. You know that very well. And our interventions are targeted and our criticism is targeted and we have knowledge of what we are saying. Well, let's see you, then, practically. If you hadn't done what I thought was "fowl" for such a process, I wouldn't have referred to it at all. I'm telling you, honestly. The first phase of the integrated judicial and criminal justice management system has already been implemented since 2019. The studies that you are now calling for - you are two years of government, you are no longer at the beginning - were, a very large part of them, integrated into the NSRF from the management structure of your Ministry which was not in existence until 2015. So many Community support frameworks have passed, so many NSRFs and the entire Ministry of Justice have had no management structure to manage them and have been built on the government of SYRIZA, of course with delays. I'll say we should have done it faster. But we did. We did the studies, mature and started at the beginning of 2019, the electronic services, the electronic lodgement of documents, the electronic follow-up of case courses, the electronic search of displays, information and information. With regard to the second phase after two years, and while the studies were ready, which I say we should have taken out the competition, you say to us, and you are proud that you have run too quickly and you are telling us that you have succeeded in engaging the e-justice and everything that will require - I wish everything will be done electronically, to be a virtual trial, I tell you sincerely. I wish from September, since the new judiciary, all this is happening. Because it will indeed make life easier for both the citizens and the judiciary and the lawyers themselves - in the Recovery Fund, which had to come to a pandemic so that a new financial instrument could be decided. It has been two years since you took over, and the Recovery Fund has had an obligation of 20% of the funds to deal with digital convergence. That is what we lack, not already incorporate planned and necessary projects into the Recovery Fund. Let us think of it as a success, in other words, when we know that you did not have much power as a government to absorb 20% of digital convergence from other resources. Wouldn't you take the ready things we've given you? Obviously! I do not think that in these two years we have improved access to justice, I do not think that e-government and digital convergence have something else in relation to 2019. Obviously, you have to go this way. I'm with you. I'm telling you, honestly. And I say to you that I hope that we will have all the platforms ready, so that we do not need the interaction and incredible tails that the lawyers of Athens and the province, who are of the third world type, and the administrative courts, live in particular. I'm hanging up. You have done - not you, as a government, I mean - on the pretext, or on the basis of actual justification, the pandemic of direct awarding 'the bar'. Couldn't you have moved on, which is a real need, to complete the procedures? And slowly the many digital companies we have that can take on these projects. That's where we didn't tell you anything. They're specific anyway. I close this issue because I do not think you should have put it that way, and that is why we had to talk about it. I think it was 'fowl'. I told you all in the first place. It's a personal appreciation.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u14	You didn't even want me to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u15	Now you can. Now I told you you can. Indeed, because I do not want to blame the work that has been done by both your Ministry and your partners and by the Legislative Committee, this draft law is positive. We told you all about it. We are, of course, waiting to see paragraph 5 of Article 9, to see what improvement, as you said to us, will be made, because it is an important issue and all the scientific bodies in the country have been placed on it. This is a very important issue for this bill. Obviously, we are the ones who understand - and we have said so to you - the importance of the modernisation of the Court of Auditors, all the structures of the Court of Auditors, and of the audit and of all the judiciary. And, with the exception of some comments we have made, we think it is mature, because we see a intention to have a bill dealing with all of this, so it is mature to discuss both their improvements and their further skills, and I am very pleased that your partners have done so. I think that we all contribute and demonstrate this to improving the conditions for the administration of justice and control of all public bodies. I said that things are ripe now to see how to deal with the multiple controls, which create so much problems in public administration and resource absorption, but above all in efficiency. Because we keep talking about absorbing resources, which is very important, because without resources, nothing happens, but the essence is how we will be more effective. Articles 141 to 153 have been told - they are finally taking serious steps towards real substance and dealing with deficits. It's in the right direction. The action will show whether we need to improve them in the future. We'll see about that. But it's serious the work done in this part. As this committee has shown, when you bring right bills that will serve, you have not only the tolerance but also the will of all of us, of all the parties, to contribute with their own powers and with positive comments. I will close with the amendments. I will not go into the amendments in detail, because, in particular, as regards the important amendment to compulsory vaccination, our chosen colleagues and sectormen, Andreas Xanthos and Marilissa Xenogiannakopoulos, who will tell you much more in detail than me and more in detail. But to me, it really bothers me that much of a serious piece of legislation to bring them in with an amendment. It bothers me as a Greek citizen, annoys me as a parliament, annoys me as a legal person. It bothers me too, too. Because we will not have the opportunity to hear - I mean the competent bodies - neither to think nor to really discuss in here. In other words, what we have done in the bill under discussion, which we have heard the institutions, is what we do in all the bills so that we can compose better, you forbid us. And it is not only forbidden for us, it is forbidden for public debate and for Greek citizens. Is that how you deal with parliamentary control? Is that how you deal with parliamentary democracy? So serious issues that afflict the Greek society to bring them into line with an amendment? Since next week you'll have bills. Let me say that there will be no bills, that the House is closing on Friday, to say there is an emergency, to see it. Why? Why do you do this and make the institution itself happy and do not give the opportunity, not to us, to the institutions, to come to the National Bioethics Commission to tell us, to think? These are very serious issues that may mark our country and other countries, because they are global issues. You're cutting that right. I think this is a very wrong choice. Too bad you're bringing such a serious issue. It shows that you have no strategy and that you have a curious one - not to say otherwise - perception of social dialogue and parliamentary dialogue. I really hope that, in the next steps, because with the pandemic, we're not unresolved from what it looks like, you're much more sceptical, you're much more serious, and you don't get to deal with it like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr. Hatzyannakis. The reason is the special speaker of the Change Movement, Mrs Constantina Giannakopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u17	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today in plenary a further bill on the modernisation of Greek justice, despite the seriousness and criticalness of this bill and the amendments tabled yesterday, I cannot start today's speech without mentioning what nurses have come to the surface on the occasion of the new feminine murder of unfortunate Gaflagher in Folegandros. I have referred to the second reading, Mr Minister, and I will say it now, because I want to say it from the Step by the House. I don't like overreacting. However, after COVID, which has been afflicting us for over a year and a half, the second wound, pouring it over this summer, is the abuse of women. Rapes, prostitutes, murders. Every, almost week something new comes to light, to the surface. Another woman, then, murdered by her partner, another feminine. Unfortunately, he has now entered our vocabulary, that word, that reality. So something morbid happens in our society, which makes us need to catch the thread from the beginning, to become more aware, to act even more targeted, even more effectively than the way our girls and, above all, our boys are growing up, from what they learn in schools, from the context in which they are working and social to - and this is primarily about you, Minister - the review and tightening up of the sentences in the Criminal Code. And we are still waiting for you to bring to a debate in Parliament the increase in penalties, the tightening up of the sentences of these crimes in the Criminal Code, because there are a lot of dramatic incidents to be just 'bad times'. And the expression of simply excitement or discomfort in no way will it be enough. Ladies and gentlemen, I will begin my speech not with the draft law but with the amendment tabled yesterday, which relates to the mandatory vaccination of certain professional categories, namely the elderly and disabled workers. Some absolutely necessary remarks: Firstly, we are at the end of July and the vaccination programme is being delayed. We are a long way from the goal of 80% to 85% considered by scientists to be absolutely essential for the protection of society against pandemic and, above all, against the "Delta" mutation that threatens our health, our lives, threatens tourism and economic activity, the situation in which schools will be called upon to operate. And I can't even think of another year with school closed and college! Secondly, we are not of the logic white - black, nor do we in any way consider the field of pandemic appropriate or appropriate for a sterile opposition. They have been vaccinated near the 5.5 million citizens and have completed their vaccination of 4,47 million. But we have now reached the most difficult sections of the population and there it seems weakness and failure of persuasion on the part of the government. I am not referring, ladies and gentlemen, to a 15% to 20%, which, apparently, is the hard anti-invasive ones. I am referring mainly to a 15% to 20% that has been asked questions, which he has heard many even from doctors, which he doubts. It would therefore require a much more targeted effort on the part of the government in order to deal with the hundreds, thousands of fast news, which are irresponsiblely reproduced and especially on the Internet. It would take a much more coordinated information campaign than all the forces and spaces - medical clubs, family doctors, Church, parties, and we have already announced that we are launching awareness-raising campaigns - with the government's responsibility of course. But you are stalling, Minister, and so are many others. For example, we as a Change Movement had proposed the external vaccination units. They came out - and it is good - but too much delay. Thirdly, the same is true of the amendment that you have tabled. You've delayed traits. In Italy, the compulsory health requirement was made in April, and today 99% is vaccinated. You and you have delayed and do not bring the requirement for all the professional categories that are being discussed and you seem to think about it yet. You are only bringing workers to hospitals, MEDI structures and elderly people. We as a Change Movement are positive for these accusations. It is imperative and no one can play with life, the health of those whose job it is to "serve them". Of course, it is compulsory - to be serious about what we are saying - that also means some consequences for those who do not apply the rules. Otherwise, let's make another call. It is unthinkable, then, that there are invasive structures in health or elderly. That is what simple logic says and let many preach about rights, which they are trying to substantiate. No one has the right to be an actor of death, "host of death" as the academic Tasios said. Furthermore, those of you, ladies and gentlemen, agree by the parties, let them come out and say it clearly. An attitude in favour of vaccination and, at the same time, some say that the effects are supposedly causes of division, are a blurred position, a de facto position, with no responsibility and runs into two boats. We are therefore positive about the proposals, although we could table a number of criticisms, because there are many mistakes in the wording of the amendment and a series of proposals. However, as a Movement of Change, as the responsible force of Antipopulation, we want to contribute to the transmission of a clear message to the Greek society. We all have to do everything we can to put an end to the adventure that we have been spending for a year and a half. However, we - and I invite you to accept it - deposit as a Change Movement for the fifteenth - literally fifteenth! - once an amendment to incorporate health into heavy and unhealthy health, which we consider to be a minimum moral obligation on the part of the government. So if everything you say, believe it and mean it, then the least you can do is accept our amendment. Everything else, unfortunately, is a sign of hypocrisy. Ladies and gentlemen, I am going back to justice. First of all, we should not close our eyes to events such as the European Commission's 2020 report on the state of the rule of law in Greece. I imagine you read it, Minister, and I imagine it's a problem for you. Why am I saying that? Because the text of the report is a trick for very important issues which concern us, such as the independence of Greek justice, how to choose the leaderships of the supreme courts and, of course, the great abstention, the delay in the administration of justice. The European report emphasises that the level of legal independence is modest. That's exactly what he says. And it adds that only 53% of the general public feels that the independence of justice is quite good and very good, which in recent years is falling. The European report also stresses that Greece's justice system is still facing serious challenges in its overall efficiency. This means that Greece faces a clear risk of creating new accumulated cases, something that statistics on justice reveal, as the time required for litigation of civil and commercial cases in question first increased five hundred and fifty-nine days in 2018 compared to four hundred ninety-nine days in 2017. The same, of course, applies to the branches of criminal and administrative courts. These, ladies and gentlemen, must all be taken into account, not of course because we do not know. It is just that every legislative initiative on your part, Minister, and in general, the legislative work of everyone must be aimed at eliminating these pathogens. As regards today, therefore, under a draft law, the Court of Auditors is a body of historical memory and dynamics. This institution has run the entire Greek history since ancient times and this is very important and something worth reminding, Minister. I have also mentioned this in detail as a special rapporteur and in the debate on No 4700/2020 on the introduction of uniform procedural rules. In our modern history, the Court of Auditors was founded in 1833 in the French court as the highest authority. And why was it created? It was created because of the poor management of the first foreign loans and for the country's first bankruptcy. During his years he has been assigned a series of new responsibilities, and today his powers are laid down by Article 98 of the Constitution, and of course his whole function, his purpose, his purpose, has to do with transparency, accountability and efficiency in the field of public spending. In essence, the role of the Court of Auditors has to do with the very concept of good administration, good governance. That is why - and we have also said so in the debate of the committees - Minister, the introduction of provisions of an organic law which will overall regulate the procedural, organic and operational issues of the Court of Auditors, of course, is in the right direction. Besides, this wish was expressed by the officials of the Court of Auditors themselves who formulated this draft law in the relevant committee. So this legislative initiative codifies after Law No4700/2020 the provisions relating to the Court of Auditors, which we expect - and I think it is reasonable - that it will improve and make the operation of this top institution more qualitative and more efficient. Because the restoration of confidence in the relations between the state and the citizen, which has been particularly discredited in recent years, in the years of the crisis, can only be based on the principles of transparency, proportionality, respect for the individual in order for the citizen to know where he is going up to the last euro of the Greek state. As regards the individual remarks which we have presented in detail and which we have presented as a Change Movement to the committees, our remarks mainly focused on the points referred to in Article 9(5). And I think, Minister, we have heard it from the chosen majority rapporteur and from you as well - that you realised who was the core of our criticism and we expect to see what changes you have made - you said that you are going to bring. Because Article 9(5) stipulates that the Court of Auditors shall review the legal persons governed by public law who have been financed by public resources for their proper disposal. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need a minute, Mr. President. The question therefore has arisen as to whether the above provision is in line with the legal, administrative and management autonomy and autonomy of professional associations which have the form of a legal person governed by public law, such as lawyers and medical clubs. There has also been very detailed documentation from representatives of operators, most importantly, there has been clear case law from the highest courts in the country. So we expect to see your answer. I should like to close, Mr President, by repeating that only the codification of the laws - because this is essentially the case with this bill - and that is to fill in the gaps or errors that exist in the Court of Auditors, even with cowardice steps in some cases, clearly improve the procedure that exists in the Court of Auditors and solve years of problems and, of course, this is a good thing, no one can see that. In principle, therefore, we are positive about this bill, no matter how much we think that some proposals could have been much better formulated. Because, you know, we in the Change Movement have no blindfolds or taboo. We are looking positively at any bills that solve problems and, if only, ladies and gentlemen, we could in this Chamber consult on many more things, on many more issues, because I think that only in this way could we help our country, the Greek citizens, and also the credibility of the political system. And I wish - and I close with it - that all those who are in this Chamber should be accustomed to accepting that they are positive, regardless of who says it or write it, because it matters or is important - not who says something, but what it says, if right, if it helps our country and the citizens. And I think that should be a common tool in this Chamber. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Giannakopoulou. The reason is the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Maria Konnakas.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to say on the Health Ministry's amendment that because the seriousness of the matter will lead objectively to monopolize the time, I shall not mention it at all. We will speak in detail our first speaker, George Lambroulis, in order to fully explain the position of the JRC around the issues of vaccination and there is no room for misinterpretation of intentional or non-interpretations. The position of the Minister at the last meeting of the committee could condensate the explanatory statement of the bill, of course, as well as the agony of the other rapporteurs from the other parties, namely that the reform of the Court of Auditors' audit powers is necessary to achieve the absorption of the recovery fund, in other words, to oversee, in substance, the predetermined conditions for the eligibility of the financing of specific business groups for green development, transport and others, while the people's needs will be focused on budgetary cuts and the prerequisites they impose. Moreover, the Court of Auditors itself as the country's highest financial court on the basis of the state's financial control, clearly makes the role it plays in the capitalist economy, of course. Our position is not defined in general and vaguely by the need for budgetary control of the country's financial expenditure. No one, of course, could oppose such a check. But for us, the main criterion is the definition of the policy, the nature and content of this financial and economic policy, and so also the direction taken in the necessary control. In this context, therefore, the Court of Auditors is an instrument for implementing each governmental economic policy. How, then, can he not praise New Democracy and the rapporteur of SYRIZA and of the Movement of Change the importance of the Court of Auditors for the life of the place? The legality you refer to and which the Court of Auditors is called upon to implement is no more than the policy of financial support for major business groups in the context of the development of the so-called economic competitiveness. It is essentially dictated and determined by the priorities set by both the State and the European Union for the type of expenditure deemed eligible. These, of course, are not about meeting the vital folk needs. Projects such as fire protection, anti-military projects for the protection of human life and others are not considered profitable so they are not eligible on the basis of the priorities set by capitalist development. That is why the Court of Auditors is modernising to meet these needs of the capitalist economy. It is also characteristic of previous legislative interventions that, under the pretext of speeding up procedures or exceptional circumstances, even the mechanisms of the urban state have shrinked, which, of course, we do not think could form a polemic policy. However, they have provided some legal guarantees for the management of public money, such as preventive control, which confirms that the interest of the government in general is not vaguely and vaguely to control the legitimacy of state expenditure, but the direction they will have and, if you like, to give legal status to the political choices made by each government. In fact, even the recognition of the Court of Auditors' independence in the planning and carrying out of the checks set out in Article 3 does not only contradict symbolism, but also, at the same time, strengthen cooperation with Parliament, following the previous legislation which enabled the government majority to give priority to the Court of Auditors in the hierarchy of controls carried out on the basis of each occasion in government pursuits? The upgrading of the Court of Auditors' cooperation with the Parliament, described in the long-term objectives of the draft law, to provide, as is said, with a high level of technological information on budgetary and pension issues and its reorganisation in order to adapt its structure to these requirements, breaks down the myth even this proclamation of its independence. In this respect, it is particularly serious and not innocent, in our opinion, to extend the powers conferred on the Court of Auditors for the first time by Article 27 for the purpose of diagnosing the effects of fiscal sustainability, you say, public insurance and social expenditure in general, in conjunction with the power to monitor and monitor the development of the obligations to repay public debt and, in other words, to guarantee the application of the rules on budgetary stability. What is the aim of these arrangements? The Court of Auditors should be converted into an official cutter, assess and judge for example whether one or other social provision is in line with the country's budgetary objectives. In other words, every bourgeois government will shift its responsibilities, the political choice to slash pensions and other social benefits, showing that it imposes this, the country's highest judicial formation dictates it. There are no regulations relating to electronic justice and digitisation either. They are an integral part of the European Union's strategy on the basis of and the Action Plan on European Electronic Justice 2019-2023 with key objectives of access to information, electronic communication on justice and interoperability. In other words, a series of modernisations, which relate to both the internal and external functioning of the court, are aimed at simplifying the process of collecting control data and evaluating them. In other words, the Court of Auditors' information system with the interoperability of the systems will be in touch with the information systems of the audited bodies, with every information system it deems necessary for the electronic data collection and exchange. Will anyone ask: is there anything negative about all this? It does not, of course, concern the development of such achievements in science and technology itself, but that not all of these are generally and vaguely available to everyone, not to serve people's needs in general. The interest of civil servants is essentially focused on the objects and fields that shield capitalist profitability, related to business activity, which, as Pissaridis report has said, transforms justice into a factor of stability for entrepreneurship. At the same time, the State's so-called interoperability is seeking its mechanisms to have access to a huge volume of data and information collected in databases. It is even characteristic of how you use as a pretext the development of new technologies to justify even the dramatic undermining of the Court of Auditors' services, which now, instead of covering gaps with a legitimate public tender procedure, which has not been conducted for more than ten years, has not been carried out, proceed to even greater contraction of organic positions. In other words, the development of technological means itself, this great conquest of human work, is currently being exploited, not to facilitate workers, to reduce working time by increasing their earnings, but to intensify work and, of course, to justify major gaps and reductions in staff. We consider it to be a problem, in any case, for the auditors of the Court of Auditors to be accustomed to having been consulted in paragraph 3 of Article 179 of the bill, without specifying precisely the terms and content of the bill and, if necessary, attempting to further categorise the officials. In recent years we have been following a series of substantial reactionary changes to justice on the basis of the European Union's guidelines, with which, of course, you all agree and welcome them. Changes that often, while having a reactionary character, dress with a progressive cloak. What are these international principles and rules, the best practices of the European Union to which you are asking to comply with the Court of Auditors? The strategy of the European Court of Auditors for the period 2021-2025 is particularly enlightening. The text of this strategy expressly mentions as the objective of the European Court of Auditors the assessment of the governance of the European Union, the control of budgetary policies and public finances in the European Union and that the best solution would be to entrust this mandate to control all the institutions and bodies, which have been established in the Treaties of the European Union, and all the government structures that are crucial to the functioning of the European Union. Specifically for the use of technology, the European Court of Auditors points out its use for automated data collection and analysis, for easy access to the data checked, but also for the promotion of the conception and culture of digital control in internal audit work. The role of the European Court of Auditors, therefore, is also reflected as a key tool for the European Union's policy, as it will monitor the implementation of the multiannual financial framework 2021-2027 and the Recovery Fund. This key programme for the management of the new capitalist crisis by the European Union and the upcoming development, which provides for support for business groups with loans, subsidies and subsidies, but which the people will pay through the anti-popular, anti-popular reforms that constitute prerequisites for disbursements. This is the character of the European Court of Auditors, these and the paths that you are following when you refer to adapting to European standards and to international principles. It is also known that through the Court of Auditors you have managed to turn municipalities, like the regions, into the long-handed hand of any government policy. The control of the economics and expenditures of the municipalities is, of course, carried out in the light of the recompense of their services and their conversion to another taxing mechanism of the people's strata. It is characteristic, for example, of the importance you are displaying in Article 131 that, if the officials of the municipalities fail to obtain the third party's debts in time to the municipalities themselves will be borne by them. So you put the knife on the neck of the employees, to make them more efficient tax-spring mechanisms, so they too tighten the nipple in the neck of the people's layers, without showing any tolerance. At the same time, of course, the tactics of the charging and the forced collection of wages continue, in cases of non-legal recruitment of workers, regardless of their fault, even when a worker normally provided his work, even we say, and without the formal procedure being followed. There are, for example, cases in the municipalities, which, due to the tragic downsizing of the time-consuming procedures and the suffocating frameworks, make it impossible to permanently become employees, and after their contracts have ended, to award them tasks for the execution of imperative and necessary projects, which must be done. Furthermore, in these cases, the people who normally provided their work, do you consider that they have wrongly collected their salaries and therefore, in what sense do you ask them to return them back? We say, even in these cases, like the cleaners from Volos, who, in order to be able to find a job as a cleaner, please, when you ask for such prerequisites, even for these services, used a fake degree. On this issue, of course, it bears the full responsibility, both the current government and the previous SYRIZA, because it has not taken any legislative initiative to put an end to this situation. The problem is, finally, that of the provision of Article 178, because in the name of accelerating allegedly justice you are constantly justifying procedural interventions, which, in essence, restrict the right of individualised examination of each case of any procedural guarantees of the so-called trial, the logic of a rapid and mass dismantling of cases, such as the one used as a pretext for many times in the field of pilot trial. That is the reason behind the amendment by the Ministry of Justice, which comes with the cloak of speeding up pensions, but which, on your own responsibility, is a year old in the courts. What are you doing now about it? After you have not taken out pensions with one click, after you have accumulated mountains of unreasonable cases, with the responsibility of the previous governments, of course, since you are now putting your hands on the late ones, for which pensioners had been entitled to judicial decisions, even by redeeming them the dilemma of the shorter liquidation against the lesser remuneration, now in the name of acceleration, you are calling on them to take the risk of waiving from procedural rights, which guarantee more substantial support and examination of their case, in order to shorten the procedures that are delayed by your own responsibility. You say that will only be done if the parties themselves want to do so. But if their alternative is to wait for many more years, what are they going to choose? Answering these are the recruitment of staff, judges, the recruitment of judges, the taking of measures for the effective staffing and infrastructure of the courts, in order to achieve and speed up justice at all its levels, to find a solution for the rapid awarding of pensions with the recruitment of permanent staff with full rights rather than, of course, the gift you have given to private multi-professional companies, to which you have entrusted and the main volume of pensioning, to ensure that the technology is used effectively for the modernisation of insurance funds infrastructures in the interests of the insured and not, of course, the mockery of e-ECA. It is also the fourth article of the amendment, which, of course, we cannot support at all, because you are supposed to demarcate the concept of a paid lawyer in order to arouse the cruel reality experienced by thousands of workers in the field of justice. The exclusion of subjection to the mandate's management right and hierarchy is a wishlist, if it does not hide any other kind of targeting. The mass of lawyers employed in large companies and magistrates work in terms of substantial dependence on the employer, is essentially an employee and is not covered by the relation between the mandate paid. With this terminology, however, it does not acquire regulated, structured, working, insurance and trade union rights, and, of course, it is exposed to full immunity and well-known exhausting hours of large legal companies. Of course, this situation is maintained both under the responsibility of governments and the leaders of legal associations, who tolerate this story. Do not have any illusions that thousands of waged lawyers will remain in subjection to the exploitation they exist. They will claim to safeguard their rights with their struggle. We, of course, cannot vote for and legitimise this terrible regime. That is why we will be voting against the amendment from the Ministry of Justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mrs. Konnakka. The reason is the special speaker of the Greek Solution Mr. Hetas.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, it's a black day for democracy today. Black! I think you've overcome yourself as government too. This undemocratic amendment, which the New Democracy Government is bringing today, violates every concept of human rights and imposes what we have been shouting about for a year and a half and we have said that you will do the mandatory vaccination. In order to do this, because we're clear to everything, whatever we say. We are not arrivals because we do not understand what we are saying, like some other colleagues in this House. I'll see you around. We do so: The Greek Solution when it governs, one of the first laws that will be abolished will be this highly democratic law, Minister, what you are doing today. What else are we gonna do? We will send to fire this law on mandatory vaccination. The first law we're going to abolish will be him. We will also abolish, Minister, all the things that the Greek people demand. What? The privileges, the incredible privileges of illegal immigrants, and we will send them with the NGOs where they came from, the illegals. We will cancel the scourge of the Ambassadors, Minister, who are daily humiliating the Skopje, every day, and we are tolerating them all. We will tighten up, Minister of Justice, the Criminal Code, the sentences for guilty crimes and bring back real life for paedophiles, but also for all the other two monsters circulating out there, and our criminal system cares every day. We will ensure, Minister, the houses of the Greeks and we will protect them from cords and funds, which the Greeks suffer every day. We'll really motivate ourselves, because that's our program, because that's our idea, that's our dream and our goal. It is the dream of Kyriakos Velopoulos, it is our program - the four hundred pages that exist and you go and get them - the primary sector, the primary production, which Mr Mitsotakis suddenly remembered yesterday. After two years he came to our line and spoke of a primary sector. You're late. We will put an end, Minister, to Erdogan's challenges with patriotic policies, which only the Greek Solution can implement and explain dozens of times, as the only patriotic party in the Greek Parliament, with a single defensive doctrine with Cyprus, with an AOZ of Greece - Cyprus, with zero tolerance for violations of FIR and territorial waters. All those who have broadly signed up to the sellout of our history, the intimidation of the Greeks and the Islamization of our country will sit on the stool. It will work, Minister, with the Greek Solution for the first time a constitutional court, such as in all European states other than Greece, because it is not the system. It will work for a constitutional court, an independent justice, without intervention. Your Minister said the day before yesterday - do not challenge me, I will tell you who it is - 'I am sure', he says, 'that the judges will agree to vote in favour of the mandatory vaccination'. Isn't that a raw interference in justice? What's that? Don't you pre-pay the judges to how they should function? Isn't that raw intervention? But it does not suit you - not personally, your Government and all the systemic governments that have passed through this place - a constitutional court. Today, then, in the violation of democracy and the principles of the rule of law, we, the Greek Solution, respond with a deafening, with a proud and a Greek 'no', a 'no' huge what you go through. So we say to the Greeks and Greek women who are listening to us that this bill is the behaviour of a regime and not a democratic government. This is not a democratic government, Mr. Chiara. Your policy is an explosive, unfortunately, dark cocktail, with a very strong dose of South African apartheid inside and go out and say the opposite. As much as you are trying, with all those who have planted in systemic channels, which you have fed very well - 100 thousand, 100 million euros, too much - the Greek Solution will be here to unravel anti-constitutional practices along with all - and are many - the healthy thoughtful Greeks to bronze a word: Freedom! This is what we advocate, freedom, for Greeks to be free to decide. If you have baptized the obligation of good administration - so you say, the mandatory baptism of good administration - then we are baptizing ourselves with the same convenience as you are doing, the 'North Korean Government'! Rejoice in this democracy! Because we're talking about mutations, do you know what the most dangerous mutation is? The most dangerous mutation is our democratic mutation, what we've been living in these days, what we've been living for a year and a half. I don't understand, Minister. I'm going to ask some questions, and when the time comes, answer us. Why should everyone be vaccinated with a vaccine that has no final authorisation? Why should there be no freedom to decide what to do? Why should there be no government requirement - if it were a serious government - to convince the Greeks to do what the government wants? Why don't you convince them? Because you can't. You didn't even try. You started with the whip from the beginning. Why if the vaccine is 100% effective and safe, as the Prime Minister has said many times, have you already discounted a third dose in October? What research has this account relied on? What investigation has the Prime Minister relied on for this account? In the same investigations that brought us here to Parliament, which told us 'I have investigations that it does not fit into public transport' and laughed at the Greek and so you went to convince people, saying that it does not fit into public transport? In these investigations? What company is licensed to vacate citizens every six months? Tell us, come in. Why are you talking about compulsory vaccination rather than medicines that can effectively block COVID? As much as you want to pass it insidiously - because you are going through it under the amendment, and you have not even brought it here and we will take SYRIZA in a moment - because that is what you have been asked to do with your bosses, we are making it clear once again: compulsory vaccination means fascism. It's over and out. Obligation means fascism, it means neo-taxian dictatorship, it means a very serious democratic deficit. So let us all be told that all those who hide behind the impunity, which you took care of at night - here I was - at 11 o'clock at night, to bring it and vote on it. It's impunity to everything, to the bankers, to the doctors, to you, everywhere! Who will take responsibility when the cases begin to multiply, for example, between vaccinated persons in Israel, as is happening in Britain? Will you quit then? No, I don't think so. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, You will hide behind the impunity and you will start the ping pong of responsibilities: "It was not our decision, it was the committee. It wasn't the committee, it was ours. It was not a political view, it was a medical decision.’ It's the most famous ones. And so, with this, you're going to convince the world. Because the Greek Solution does not eat your own fairy tale, with your so-called controversy in here - we have seen them many times - and with SYRIZA, to satisfy your party audience, so go to SYRIZA. How's SYRIZA? We said it the other day, and we said it today. The two 'bargains' of Mr Tsipras have been here since yesterday's speech. In two boats, gentlemen. "And with the policeman and the policeman," we can't. Take a seat. Say what the SYRIZA's clear position is against the anti-democratic requirement imposed by the Government of New Democracy today. What's SYRIZA's position? Tell us. We are the ones who are calling 'no'. We are the thunderstorm of 'freedom'. What do you think? Tell us what you're saying. You say what your honourable Member, Mrs Jufi, says, that is, 'We are in favour of compulsoryity, but are we voting against the amendment'? You're in trouble, okay, but how does that work? That is, not to let the world that works - which the New Democracy is going to do - continue to be paid. They can't, guys, that's all. Take a position clear. Two boats can't be done. You came here today and complained that it was going to bring with amendment this anti-democratic law of the mandatoryity of the vaccine. He hurt you. You have invoked parliamentary control. Now did you remember? Now have you been harmed by the way the government legislates? Are you not telling me, are you not the ones who first signed and then brought to Parliament the suppressed Ambassadors' Agreement? Do you now have the courage and hypocrisy to say and invoke parliamentary control and the means we use in here? Are you serious? Ala card, whenever it suits you? That's why we're saying you're the same and take a seat. Are you voting against? We don't have a problem. We welcome you to the voice of reason. We welcome you to the voice of the Greek Solution, where we are clear from the first moment in favour of freedom. But take a clear stand against what the government is going to do, on the one hand with the Minister of Labour, Hatzidakis, threatening the Greeks, not only by dismissal, but also by depriving them of insurance contributions - they are incredibly what we live, the Greek people see them - on the other hand, with Maki Voridis saying that the intransigents in the public sector will also go to their homes, because of a great deal of reason. When I told him in committee 'good', he said 'What are we going to do? Are we going to give them a gift?' That's a Minister's answer, seriously! 'Well,' I say to him, 'Would you fire the world?'. "And what are we going to do? We'll give them a delivery?" he says. Okay, okay. As if that were not enough, Mrs. Kerameos, the Minister of Education, will come in the next few days with the Ministry of Education bill, and she wants to cut off the education for inconvenient students! Incredible things! Adonis Georgiadis is coming and says the vaccine redundancies are legal. Do you understand what you're doing? Do you understand what you have created out in society? All of them who confirm? President. - The next item is the joint debate on the What was the political ladder a week ago? Mrs. Michailidou. And well, she left, she got away, we packed it, we took it back. He said he was fired, clear things. He said it. You confirmed her. Who do you think you're kidding? Also, in all this propaganda for compulsory vaccination you still did not hesitate to put a hand on the church, to need a right wing. The world out there is no work, no money, no psychological problems, using psychopharmaceuticals to grow up, they lose their homes, they're in a madness. Wherever you wish, Minister, you're amateurs. Department of Education, Department of Foreign Language Centres. You've left them outside. From June 15, without object, people started. They stayed apart from the rents of July. The industry is big. There you are amateurs. ‘ELLINAIR’. Our president called it yesterday. You left her with a huge company, from which all northern Greece lives, at her mercy to sink. No reinforcement, no help, no salvation board, no lifesaving. ELLINAIR was a huge, healthy company so far. But where you want, you are professionals: "Aegean", "FRAPORT" and others. There you are amateurs. It is not 'ELLINAIR' for you. Listen to something. Your amendment is clearly illegal. It comes in a direct conflict with a European law which prohibits forced vaccination and which you are clearly stumbling, obviously and we cannot vote on. Of course, we will vote against four. If we had ten hands and ten hands. Do you know where else you're professionals, Mr. Chiara, as government? There's nothing falling down. The New Democracy, now, wants to make - you hear wicked - binding the rulings of the European Court of Human Rights. Now you're bringing this. And other parties you're putting it down as a draft law. The European Court of Human Rights has legitimately considered the forced vaccination of citizens and you are now bringing it. Lucky? I don't think so, Mr. Chiara. I do not think our national law will be harmonized with what the European Court of Human Rights decides! Do you envision this Greece? Do you envision this family? What can I say about your bill? Why raise your hands, Mr. Comrade? So why should it be harmonised in all our national law with what the European Court of Human Rights decides? Do you now bring it as a proposal for a law of three parties, where the European Court of Justice has now decided that the enforceability of vaccination is legal? And that's random?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u22	Not at all, it's always like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u23	Is it always like that? Now, however, you have tabled a proposal for a law, now you have tabled a proposal for a law on the parties to the Change Movement, New Democracy and SYRIZA. Is it always like that? Now you've brought in a law proposal. Now that the European Court of Justice has held that compulsoryity is legal. Tramps! So you think you're gonna fool people? What to start with for the bill. Really, Mr. Chiara, you blacked our hearts. I don't know, does your department have it? Your bills? We're not talking about your bills. You are bringing so many amendments in which we are only talking about them and we are not talking about you. That's not what we're talking about. Court of Auditors, public expenditure - we all know - public procurement, what can we say that fraud, forgery, counterfeiting, covertness, opacity, circuits with international tentacles, the spread of public money? We've lived through them. So the Court of Auditors must play an important role in this. Can I say two things for you? It's the Supreme Court. That's why we call it a constitutional court, we'll keep saying it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In budgetary terms, we are not going well and I will close, Mr President, the banks have ruled out liquidity from small, small and medium-sized enterprises as well. Greek citizens are unable to say it simply to walk and yet people are trying to be consistent with their obligations, to pay taxes, to pay their fees, to pay HIS and go by saying. It's more than the state's obligation to do what it has to do. What? Defend and protect public money. Let's just point out something else. Our country has a very large, disproportionate burden on illegal immigrants, and that is also a burden on the state budget. I also told you in committee that there are very large European funds, but also our own money, from our budget, which is being promoted to various organisations and NGOs - I want you to see this - which have starved in traffic circuits, which fill their funds with European subsidies, which are illegal, with many of them not being controlled, and whenever you hear and wake up a little, and control some, you get something illegal and you close them down. This is Greek people's money. Here, therefore, the Court of Auditors must shed a lot of light and deal with it. There is also a risk that public money will be broken down, which is inextricably linked and that European funds will now be made available. The European Union itself - not the Greek Solution - has expressed concerns about how to make available, how to manage resources - this famous Recovery Fund - be it loans, subsidies, or money for the NSRF, etc. That is why the Court of Auditors, the audit, if you like, needs to modernise our budgetary arsenal, as a country in our hands. We're talking supreme courts. We've been calling it two years. As long as we're inside the Greek Parliament, we'll say it again and we'll do it. So because we are talking about supreme courts, we will be making this clear from the Step, including the words of our President Kyriakos Velopoulos, this. Once again, we will point out from this step, the firm position of our party on the necessity of functioning in our country of a constitutional court. There would be many doubts about the existence of a constitutional court, many problems with national legislation, justice and citizens. As a Greek Solution, then, we believe in this court. We believe that it would act as legal certainty and promote the development of the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr. Heta. The reason is now the Special Rapporteur of Mera25 Mr. Bakadima Fotini.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will begin with the amendment on compulsoryity. Unfortunately, Minister, it brings out the lights today and forces us to go a little further back the debate on the bill, which is really a very important bill, but you have chosen the solution of the amendment to such an important issue. Of course, this only reflects in the most glamorous way the attitude and manner that the governing party chooses to deal with a really important issue. You could - there was time - to raise the issue to debate, to be able to place ourselves, to listen - not only to the players - to listen to the citizens, but also to the competent bodies, you have chosen the easy solution, to resolve the amendment. This is not the first time, you have used us to very important bills bringing in equally important amendments lately. What should we want to do first? Should we remember the day when we were discussing another bill and were delaying the conclusion of the debate so that the campaign for vaccination, once again, could be brought to an end? Unfortunately, it wasn't the first time, and I'm afraid it wouldn't be the last one either. As Mera25, since the first moment of the pandemic, we have talked and continue to do so, and we will continue to do so, for the huge need to strengthen the National Health System, for the establishment and creation of a network of free mass tests, for the need to create a network of test sites, which can then be used as vaccinated centres and then for the use of our citizens, our fellow citizens, to all of us as health centres. But, ladies and gentlemen of the government, you have chosen yourself, instead of putting these issues in the context of the debate, which we have opened since the first moment the pandemic began - which has arrived at the coronary pandemic in our country - you have chosen to resort to spasmist and authoritarian moves, and you themselves are strong in the vaccination programme. You have managed to strengthen, rather than bend any resistance against vaccination. You have chosen to work - and you continue to do so in the worst way - pandemic, for a basic reason. To cover your strategic choice not to strengthen the National Health System and is, of course, your strategic choice to continue to operate in panic and to operate primarily and primarily in communication. We should be discussing the problems that tourism faces this year. We should be discussing how we can protect Greek citizens from the financial outsourcing of the pandemic. We should be discussing red loans, which are increasing every day. We should be discussing how to protect women and not just from all morbid crimes and all the sick situations of abuse, bullying, feminine homicides, which we really are learning every day and, frankly, they are getting us all out of our clothes. However, instead of discussing these, we are discussing the framework which you are putting forward, the framework of the division and movement of the finger in Greek society, when we should not divide the Greek people into camps, but, as far as vaccination is concerned, we should start a genuinely large information campaign, in view of the real awareness of the citizens of Europe, in order to solve any questions that exist and to strengthen the vaccination campaign and the effort and not to have any moves that really strengthen it, as is the specific sparse amendment. As MERA25, we are in favour of vaccination and, of course, of the public network of free mass tests, but we are against the dissatisfaction that the government is cultivating and giggling and, of course, against the health certificate. Already with his earlier legislation, the Ministry of Justice brought certificates of political and social minds. We all remember when we discussed the personal data bill, the extra points that it could contain. We had also then discussed the man who could manage the volume of personal data of a company, a company, a body. You now choose to carry the certificate of opinions to health. Let's go now to the bill that, in fact, is important. Before going to the articles, you will allow me to revert a little further, in 2019, to Law 4622/2019, which set an ambitious but also splendid objective, that of completing and reforming all the public body's agencies in just a few months. A process that was fatally extended several times, not only because of the coronary pandemic, but mainly because it was an ultimate and far-reaching target. The new Statute of the Court of Auditors is a result of this objective and an attempt to consolidate all the legislation relating to the Court of Auditors. The codification of the Court of Auditors' procedural procedure had just taken place last year - we all remember it - with Law No4700/2020, which laid down a legislative procedure which resulted in this bill. To date, the attempt to unify and replace the entire existing legislative framework has led to a poor quality horizontal deletion of all existing legislative framework by abolishing acquired rights and bad laws, which the government itself has had to amend several times. We also remember the amendments that have been tabled later, following the adoption of the draft law by the CSCE, and not just. By now running the draft law, we will see that the first section, made up of Articles 1 to 167, relates to the Statute of the Court of Auditors. According to the bill, the Court of Auditors is now adapting to the latest data of the constitutional case-law of the Court of Auditors, the case-law of the Court of Justice of the European Union and of the European Court of Human Rights and, at the same time, the legislative gaps, which exist, in order to ensure that the fundamental rights of the persons controlled are defended. The new agency, created at a proclamation level, incorporates some modern elements, such as its independence, its association with the House and, of course, with the European Court of Auditors, issues which, although positive, do not in themselves have a substantial footprint, as in general the process and the institutions remain the same. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately experience has shown that the independent authorities in our country are not essentially independent, as unfortunately, very often undergo pressure. The Court of Auditors should aim to monitor the abundance of resources, which either by way of derogation today, by direct awards or by making available the next period, for example, through the Recovery Fund. If the Court of Auditors is not given the opportunity to truly function independently, and if we do not take care to create the necessary framework, the provisions of the legislation under discussion are not enough. Now let's go see, in the time I have left, some of the points that we feel should be mentioned. In the light of Rule 13, these are remarks I made to the committee. I imagine you'll have some answers, Minister, to them. I repeat them, so that they can also be heard from the Stephen of the House. Article 13 and members of the organs of judges. In the provisions of the bill, we are opposed to the following structure: President, nine Vice-Presidents, thirty-seven advisers, forty-seven staff, forty-five rapporteurs. In Article 14, our proposal is General Commissioner of State, Commissioner of State, three Vice-Presidents, two Vice-Presidents and eight rapporteurs. In Article 15, which deals with organic positions, we propose to increase IP positions, which will involve specific specialisation, in order to fill gaps, which exist and occur at regular intervals, while at the same time requesting the removal of the provision for external partners, as is the case in Article 16, which I have already said since the first time that we consider it to be a provision that cannot be implemented. In the provisions of Article 17, we propose the addition of a subparagraph which will provide that decisions adopted in plenary, sections and steps shall be signed only by the President, the Secretary-General and the rapporteur, or by the staff member, who shall have the responsibility for their correct wording and copying. We propose that the powers of the audit departments referred to in Article 26 be added to the provision that the report should be made public and binding on the country's budgetary planning. From the first point of Article 44, we call for the proposal to be removed "...it also applies to the responsibilities of the Director-General for Economic Affairs..." so that one of the fourteen general coordinators of the Court of Auditors can take office. We now consider that the Article 54 report should also play a binding role in the financial programme of the Ministries. We are proposing that the consequences of Article 55 be incorporated as a text in Article 54. We are going to Article 79 on the protection of auditors. The auditors of the Court of Auditors are covered by Article 101 of Law 4622/2019 in respect of the protection they receive in the performance of their audit duties. In reality, however, they are not protected from being prosecuted or from Article 349 of Law 4700/2020. There should therefore be a re-examination so that it can, in fact, close an important chapter and be able, without fearing that they have been left without protection, to carry out significant counts, in fact without having the tomb break of possible legal sanctions over their heads. The Court of Justice must also be allowed to monitor the specific programme of external auditor auditing, organised by the National Centre for Public Administration and Administration in cooperation with the Court of Auditors, so that they can obtain the relevant certification. Moving on to Article 157 and filling out positions of general coordinators and Commissioners, the positions of the general coordinators should be fulfilled by promoting staff to the Court of Auditors, who should have a total of 15 years of service to this and a three-year service to the extent of the Commissioner. We also propose that there should be an addition to the evaluation of the staff. We therefore call for the evaluation reports of the substantive qualifications of the Court of Auditors officials to be drawn up by the Head of Division as the first judge and by the Commissioner as the second and the Heads of Division by the Commissioner as the first judge and by the General Coordinator as the second judge, as well as by the Heads of Department, as well as by the Commissioners of the Court of Auditors, as well as by the Public Code. Ladies and gentlemen, as I have pointed out since the first day we started discussing the bill in the committee responsible, the importance of an independent audit mechanism is enormous. Unfortunately, however, in our country it is doubtful whether the Court of Auditors will be able to operate as such for a basic reason. The reason is political and extremely important. In the debt regime, in which we are and will be situated because of the fifth memorandum for many more years, the control mechanisms and, in particular, the budgetary authorities are already inspecting whether they are serving citizens or creditors. Unfortunately, the interests of the oligarchy and of the troika internal and external are constantly going over the interests and good of the citizens. Thus, even the mechanisms that exist to be checked are themselves in place. A unique solution remains their complete independence, their strengthening and their strengthening and the demonstration of the necessary political will to defend the good of many, and of course, the coexistence against the fifth and tougher memorandum, which is unfortunately approaching us with an increasingly rapid step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mrs. Bakadima. We are now entering the first circle of the list of speakers, with the first speaker, Mr Spyridonas Spiritual from New Democracy, and immediately thereafter, Mr Theophilos Xanthiopoulos will take the floor from SYRIZA. Mr. Spiritual, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u27	Good morning, Mr. President. Thank you very much. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, we are here today to talk about the bill of the Ministry of Justice, but you will allow me to speak - on the occasion of previous speakers - on an amendment of particular importance and crucial importance for the time we are experiencing, on the Health Ministry's amendment to the limited compulsoryity of the vaccine for certain categories of workers. It is worth noting that in Greece, for the ages of fifty-nine and fifty-nine, there are about four hundred and fifty-thousand people uninvasive. In health workers there are about twenty-five to thirty thousand unvaccinant when in other countries almost all of these two groups have been vaccinated. If we follow the latest studies carried out in all the countries of the world and the information which comes from the United States, it is clear that new cases and new mutations of the virus concern mainly in invasive populations, thus giving the right to the virus to find ground to continue to spread, move forward and trouble our society. Obviously, we are experiencing a pandemic, which either we want or we do not want it, will remain until it makes its circle and that means scientifically. This means that the upcoming cases must be exhausted. We therefore need to exhaust the warehouse, which can offer the virus space for spreading. And how can this be done? Things are simple and very clear. Three ways to deal with: One is physical illness, which will give us physical immunity, then it's medication and finally vaccination. As far as illness is concerned, the majority of those who will be severely ill and have seen it in the last one and a half years to which we have been experiencing this experience, even if they are overcoming this risk, are likely to live with serious long-term health problems for the rest of their lives. So I do not think that this is a good solution to this problem. As far as medication is concerned, various medications have been taken, several supporters. Perhaps the most potent medication we can think is currently on the market is monoclonal antibodies, but even these - according to studies from abroad - show that they do not fully respond to all mutations. The vulnerable population is the prey of the virus and where there is such a population, the virus will continue to find the ground expanding through mutations, increasing its risk and contagion, and the pandemic will remain alive with what this implies for our society. The only solution, then, is vaccines. That's what it looks like, according to the world community. It is not just our country that says so, but I think that this is the only real solution. So it is only a little while to think about other diseases before our time, polio, blessing and how they suddenly got exhausted and stopped seeing them in our daily lives when mass vaccination was carried out throughout the population. I fear that if there were this debate and the parafiscality that follows these days, we might not have succeeded, because always - if we read in the bottle of vaccines at that time - there is a possible side effect. But when we talk about a disease and a vaccine that tackles the disease, we must compare the benefit to the cost. If something happens to the vaccine is infinitely less than the risk of illness and the subsequent ones, then I think it is a debate which makes no sense to do. Many of them, who come to blame the vaccines, say that the vaccines were created very quickly, came into the market sharply and without any necessary testing, etc. That is why there is the scientific response, which is a simple one. The large companies, the "MODERNA" which made its vaccine and the second one, the "PFIZER" that created the mRNA vaccines, have been working in this sector over the last forty years. So it has a technology that we will find in the near future, where we can see vaccines, which will actually be carried out in a very short time and can be channelled into the market. As far as the second part, which is concerned with how much the vaccine has entered into our society, is concerned, in order to get a vaccine into society, as those who have dealt with it know, some clinical studies must be carried out. The advantage of a pandemic is that we have a large population to test the vaccine, so we can achieve the necessary measures in a very short time. So a procedure was not overruled. If I'm looking for a medicine for a rare disease, it could take me ten years to approve the medicine. But if we have a disease for which we have a hundred thousand cases a day, I can easily find the number of cases and quickly. The second part concerns what many people say that approval came very sharply. In fact, he quickly came using the American terminology 'emergeny use autoration' or in any case 'urgent approval'. What's that doing? It gives us the right to use a medicine, which has gone through procedures, but to save bureaucratic procedures a little. Right now these vaccines are in the process of getting their final and permanent approval. Just a few bureaucratic procedures have been overruled for some reason. This is the phenomenon of monoclonal antibodies, which have also been authorised by the relevant bodies and, of course, we have all chosen how useful it was to obtain these medicines. It seems therefore that the only safe and effective solution at this stage is the resolution of vaccinations. We have seen demonstrations in the center of Athens since yesterday, where the world is gathering and demonstrating against the mandatoryity of vaccinations. So, in television images, the plaques, which say 'we are in favour of vaccinations, but against compulsoryity'. This is interesting, however, because we still have twenty-thirty-thirty-thirty-thirty-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three and-three-three-three-three-three-three-three. These people come in contact with patients every day, and what this means to the various vulnerable groups. Doctors have been given the service of man and society and do not have the right to choose not to treat a patient with a serious communicable disease. At the same time, they have no right to pass on a disease to their patient. They have a moral obligation to treat all patients equally. It's a matter of moral order and principle. I would point out that the Government's initiative follows on from the relevant recommendation of the Committee on Bioethics and Technology, which sets out the conditions under which compulsoryity is tolerated. All steps of the so-called state-stage initiative have been taken and campaigns have been held to inform and raise awareness of staff with special seminars and events in almost all hospitals. Measures have been taken to encourage and facilitate vaccination. The government's intention is not to target workers and health workers, nor, of course, to punish anyone, but to take the necessary measures to protect society. All these months there has been a great effort to convince those who doubt or who are indifferent with substantiated scientific evidence. Unfortunately, the rates of vaccination in critical health and care structures, as well as the timeliness, show us that we have reached the last solution, which is compulsory. A characteristic example is in hospitals, which, when the time was over to vaccinate health workers, were too many invasive, who were stuck and eventually transferred the disease to the patients. When we talk about nursing homes with older people and other vulnerable populations, which are at high risk of being severely ill by a coronary, it is compulsory. It is not without, I believe, all personnel being vaccinated. Here we need to realise that it is necessary for the elderly to be vaccinated as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u28	Mr. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u29	It is important for the elderly and all vulnerable groups to be vaccinated and not just to be vaccinated for the protection of the elderly. We have lived in a subtle Lockdown with repercussions on the economy and all of us, each of us, must assume their responsibilities. The steps to get out of the pandemic are concrete, and one of them includes the vaccination of the population and, by extension, of health personnel. I would therefore ask you to vote for this amendment and therefore for the draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Theophilos Xanthopoulou from SYRIZA has the floor and immediately thereafter Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou from the movement of change.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u31	Thank you very much, Mr President. We are starting to discuss a bill which, as the majority rapporteur said, concentrates on the positive attitude of many of Parliament's wings. I think it is important, because precisely the area of justice must be an area of convergence and composition. In fact, the procedure that we followed in the committees last time has shown us to make a substantial contribution. I have an explanation in public. The hundred thousand outstanding cases in the Court of Auditors do not concern the award of pensions. It's for granted. These are differences in the level of pension, mainly based on the period of the first memoranda. But they increase dramatically. A hundred thousand was in May. Today is quite a bit more. I have the impression that this regulation that we are doing will not be enough, and I think that in a very short time we must be mature, as a political system, to make very generous decisions that are horizontal and unified to tackle this problem. This problem is a legend on the basis of society, because the citizens are waiting for the problems they have concerning the awarding of pensions so that they can enjoy this right. This consensual climate, which has been achieved in committee, is at risk of disrupting with the methodology that you have followed on the amendment to the mandatory vaccinations amendment. Honestly, a major issue which concerns the Greek society comes with a last-minute amendment, such that we should firstly denounce it. Major issues require major serious, major and substantial debate, especially because they are persuasive issues and because they are issues relating to public health, the right and the ability of citizens to self-determination. We must be very clear to all sides. President. - The next item is I have already heard my colleague put it, which, frankly, does not understand the shades and anguish we are expressing as the Left about the very serious problem of pandemic. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs Sakhara Sakhara, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council,]] Listen, gentlemen of the government. To say 'yes' condensed and 'yes' in the target, 'no' in the way. In other words, it is clear that the Council of State has also decided that vaccination must be mandatory in certain categories of population. The Bioethics Committee is coming, but it says that the state must take escalating initiatives. This is where we see your own self-interest thinking, which by means of a horizontal position you define that they should be vaccinated and you are directly penalising, you are regulating penalties for those who will not be vaccinated, without having previously exhausted any of the measures imposed. Where is the favoured state that convinces its citizens? What does the concept of the state seem to be dealing with the fears, reservations, objections and reactions of citizens? How does this state, in which you are currently leading you, realize that this problem is a problem with which we will be living in the next few years? This type of police logically "head hurts, cuts head" essentially fuels the anti-infective movement, reservation and denial. With your tactics, with what you show in this area, you are basically bringing about society or the part of society, which is sceptical. I would also like to say something which, in your liberal logic, does not fit, but we have to point it out. A strand of reductions in labour rights if it opens up will be a gap from the pressure on the social actors, who will have the opportunity to take advantage of it. It is extremely important to agree on this pandemic treaty, where labour rights are essentially undone, not to create another area of questioning labour rights. This is our objection. This is our care and has nothing to do with vaccination nor with the need for vaccination. We have told all tons that the vaccine is the only defense we have today, that it is a conquest of the human mind that we must all be vaccinated. We have all been vaccinated as a parliamentary group by giving our own personal example, but we must understand that there are other kinds of resistance, fears related to graphics and fundamental reservations and questions in society. So these issues are not solved by the amendment. With the amendment you bring an authoritarian management: 'You must be vaccinated. If you have not been vaccinated then you will be released, you will be deprived of wages." And in the conditions that society is experiencing today, initiatives of this kind actually strengthen, enhance the anti-infectious perception on the one hand and, on the other hand, put doubts on basic labour rights. Of course, you are liberal and neoliberal, unfortunately, and perhaps it does not bother you that labour rights are being disputed, but we, as a party on the left, have to show it and tell the citizens that, in a pretext, with a siege of a siege, with the risk of pandemic, once again put on the labour rights of a large majority of citizens. That is why it is very crucial that it enters the public debate and this parameter. Because a state that legislates with the 'head pain, cuts head' is not convincing about the essential objectives. I would like to say two more things about the European Commission's report on the rule of law in Greece in 2021. So while we have contributed our consent to the major issue of the bill that we are discussing, we see that the government is acting differently. The Commission refers to the government's plans for the priority reform of the country's judiciary with the use of outside consultants probably in the absence of directly interested parties. We draw your attention. We tell you that the government does not go any further in the secret, in the interpretation of judicial unions, society, the assembly of the presidents, a change in the map of the country's judicial charter, because judicial independence will be jeopardised. Minister, the report talks about delays in the digitisation of justice. We had a controversy and a debate on this.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u32	Did you read it? Read it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u33	I've made a statement, Minister. Don't tell me, read it. It comes from the most official lips to point out what we are telling you about delays in effective control and how to make the assets of political persons and state officials public. That is to say, what you had and the shortcomings in the effectiveness of the high-corruption action were. These issues are no honour to any of us in this country and these issues must be addressed. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u34	Thank you very much, Mr President. Now Mr. Kegeroglu has the floor from the Change Movement for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u35	The Court of Auditors, ladies and gentlemen, is as you know one of the three highest courts in the country and its institutional value in our legal system is therefore high. We are in favour of the legislative update and modernisation of the country's legal system in general and, in particular, of the Court of Auditors, of which we should ensure that the powers are fully exercised without restrictions and obstacles. The Court of Auditors should not be made difficult. Our position is of particular importance to the current financial situation, where pandemic has increased the needs, state expenses and reduced the state revenues. At the same time, we see an effort by the executive in the name of allegedly simplifying procedures to limit the control role of many institutions, but sometimes also of the Court of Auditors. And that is why, despite the fact that the law is positive and we will vote for it in almost all matters relating to the modernisation of the law, there is, unfortunately, a series of measures which follow on from what has been done in recent years and tend to weaken the role and purpose of the court and to turn it from a court to an advisory body. It is a feature, of course, in the European Court of Auditors, but it is not a court, it has a huge difference. So the direct copying of things that have to do with practice or their exploitation is positive, but not matters that have to do with other purposes. The thousands of outstanding cases of citizens actually show that there is a weakness and need to strengthen these departments, but instead of these aids, we see a number of regulations which deactivate other judges. At the same time as the Court of Auditors seems to relax the control of the public as such, the hard core of the state that manages the money of the Greek people you propose to extend to associations that manage their members' money. You are proposing that the abolition of control levels for large public procurement contracts of several millions should be abolished in order to speed up the process and at the same time we see the Court of Auditors tending to deal with a few hundred euros of the clubs. I think this is a contradiction and it should be corrected and it relates to Article 9. I must also refer to the priority, as it is set out, of the possibility of monitoring the pre-contractual, which is rightly mentioned in national defence, public health, and of education and social protection. These are two key issues for the citizen and his rights. In addition, correct the phrase 'to speed up the absorption of resources'. That's completely wrong. And to God, do not send it to Europe that our purpose is to absorb resources. The aim is to implement the co-financed programmes by the European Union, which also sets specific deadlines. That is the rationale and I ask that it be corrected. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a clear position on the issues of the Court of Auditors and even more clear on the issues relating to vaccinations. The epidemiological picture we have today in combination with the low rate of vaccination is not encouraging. This demonstrates that we have a long way to go and of course demonstrate that the Government has failed in the vaccination process to inform citizens of their participation in the programme. I would remind you that this starts with the mistaken view of the government that by legislating in any way it will be done. I would remind you that the amendment to the nineteen articles on the vaccination programme half an hour after the normal end of the sitting has come. Without dialogue, without debate, it was passed, it did not suffer the suffering of confrontation in order to improve and the results are what we see. I would remind you that we talked about the priority vaccination process for the people of the front line and in May we smashed the alarm in view of the negative development, which was marked by the fact that we need to see the intensification of the information and persuasion process and, of course, the process of compulsory vaccination as a prospect for specific sectors. Then you told us, leave September and we see. The inability to convince citizens is mainly due to the opposition of roles, the advisability of the campaign and the government's backwardness either with AstraZeneca or with other issues. Government and other politicians substituted scientists and some scientists played it for politicians. Vaccine campaigns were more praised by the state and by the accomplishment and less the vaccine and the need for vaccination. Trust in the critical period has been lost, valuable time has been lost. There must be measures, incentives, anti-incentives, and we must all convincingly and uniformly convince the world to be vaccinated by helping to hear the scientific opinion, not otherwise. We care and get vaccinated, that's the slogan of ours, and we all need to send the same message. We have voted in favour of the enforceability of vaccination for certain critical sectors, after the information and persuasive stages have been exhausted. We are raising our most serious objections and disagreements on how the provision is to be applied and how it is to be implemented. At the same time, however, we must say that it cannot be postponed once again. I would like to point out government analgesia and refuse to accept the amendment we have tabled over fourteen times, it must be the fifteenth of today, and it concerns integration into heavy and unhealthy doctors of all health care and care units in all sectors, all units, all sectors and, of course, the recognition of COVID as an occupational disease in order to ensure that there is such a restoration for patients or members of their families. And thirdly, our amendment has as a point the self-taxation of doctors on newspapers who pay more tax than they receive for newspapers because of the many who are currently doing. In these words, I would like to ask the Minister for Health and the Minister for Justice to accept the amendment as a minimum indication of the acceptance of the offer of health workers during the pandemic period, but also as a restoration of injustice since all this has been in force for the private sector for a long time. I would also like to say a word about the ELGA amendment, which also comes to confirm the inefficiency of the procedures that have been followed so far either for 'INO' or for other disasters. You have institutionally diverted because instead of reviewing the ELGA regulation and incorporating what emerged from the climate crisis, unfortunately, you are going to reinstitution the exceptional amount that had led to derailment in 2009 with 4 billion debts in ELGA. We will not give you an alibi, we will not stand in the way of this regulation that you are bringing, but we are sure that you will still fail and will not pay the farmers who are waiting to be mocked anyway for some time now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u36	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Mr Lambroulis from the Communist Party of Greece has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Madam President. I will not go into the bill. Our rapporteur, Maria Konnaka, has been extensively mentioned. I shall refer to the government's amendment concerning compulsory vaccination. For the Communist Party of Greece, ensuring early general vaccination in the context of a modern state health system is both the right of the people and its security must be the obligation of the state. All safe vaccines, the use of the scientifically appropriate new medicines, together with all prevention measures, and given the need for a complete, developed, well-established and equipped public health system at all levels, particularly primary health care, which is capable of addressing current and exceptional popular health needs, that is to say, all that the government does not guarantee today, needs at the same time and none of them can substitute for shortcomings or shortcomings of others. What are you doing now as a government? You bring in a slogan of anti-scientific provisions, authoritarian provisions - gifts, that is, businessmen - and lies, to cover up the provocative lack of measures to protect the people, such as the unacceptable state of the dangerously understaffed public health sector, the almost non-existent public primary health care, the lack of substantial information on vaccines and vaccination, the contradiction of attitudes and measures that leave the people exposed to pandemic and the needs of medical care. And while you do nothing to deal with these problems, you shake the finger on the people, workers to accept the anti-popular policy, otherwise you cut their wages, or you pave the way for their dismissal, confirming that the anti-popular catastrophe of this policy, regardless of who's in the government, has no bottom. So, what are you doing now? Firstly, you say that you have exhausted the information measures for workers in the elderly care units, for people with disabilities in health units. It's a lie, since almost nowhere has been given substantial information. On the contrary, your revolts and the contradictions of your positions and your measures strengthened the fear, the tremors, the hesitability of people who do not belong to the marginals, but are exposed to the competitions of the pharmaceutical groups, the contradictory positions of certain scientists according to the particular interests that are attached and without their substantial state support. Really, that 97% of the host refugees in the six reception and identification centres and thirty-five hosting centres remain irreversible of whose responsibility they are? Who is to blame for not starting home vaccination or where the program in nursing homes is no longer complete? Who is to blame for not building vaccination centres in the areas where the people are working, studying and living? Secondly, you are talking about compulsory vaccination of personnel in health establishments, care for the elderly, disabled. Of course, the vaccination of this staff is necessary. But look. Aren't hospitals introduced from a coronary? Yeah. Where does this world get from? From public transport, from uncontrolled places of work, from sample checks to tourists, which have the effect of introducing an unknown number of positive cases into the country. And the image of the islands confirms it. However, in view of the profits of the tourist capital, what is the impact on your people and workers? But you did the same last year with the famous 'Opened and waiting for you'. You remember that. Really, in the large hospitals in Athens, the rate of vaccinated and diseased and have still antibodies is over 90%? Yes or no? A similar large percentage of less or more than 80% exist in other hospitals across the territory. Thirdly, you are imposing an unacceptable measure of suspension of work, which in the private sector, in addition to a loss of wages, does not guarantee the employee's return to work, since this is at the discretion of the employer. And we all know that this will be an alibi and an opportunity for redundancies. Fourthly, the responsibilities of the work doctors on vaccination, illness, workers' surveillance are assigned - listen - to whom? To the superintendents. Why not use occupational doctors, as are other relevant specialities in the monitoring of vaccinations, post-vaccination support, workers information, and the implementation of preventive measures? On the contrary, all this replaces what? The demonstration of the vacant situation of workers in the private and public sectors and not just in the health and welfare areas, naturally opening up the way for redundancies. It is therefore clear where the government is aiming at the amendment to the mandatory vaccination, to shift the debate from the problems posed by its criminal policy, to strengthen social automation, to identify any criticism of government policy with extreme right, conspiracy, irrational and anti-vaccinative views and moves, which you have not seen spontaneously yesterday in the Constitution - and which the government itself is bringing forward, exploiting and tolerated, since they are a convenient adversary to water in the mill of mischief propaganda of the government itself. So, at the opposite side of this anti-popular policy, the JRC claims and strives to ensure that the need for the vaccination of the people is combined with full and free coverage of all people's needs in medical care as an obligation for the state and the government and not as the individual responsibility of the people. Moreover, the exemplary results of vaccination and protective measures in the JRC are a model of responsible and agonistic attitude, which goes hand in hand with the struggle that continues to claim the necessary measures to shield the public health system and is a lesson in which the Government and the other parties get under the base, ladies and gentlemen. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. Therefore, the debate on compulsoryity is timeless, misguided and harmful in the way it is done, because, before any debate on compulsoryity, we need to implement specifically what we claim: Firstly, universal public free vaccination with all effective and safe vaccines, with clear instructions. Making use of the scientific data and on the basis of medical evidence to carry out vaccination with the appropriate vaccine. Secondly, free full medical screening before vaccination and safeguarding for those who need to be excluded. Thirdly, full day-to-day information on all the data derived from the vaccination course. Fourth, upgrading and staffing of primary health care of the control and pharmacovigilance centre by monitoring vaccines for any timely interference with side effects and scientifically correspondingly recording the results of vaccination. Fifthly, an exhaustive vaccination campaign, answers to the existing questions, even essential and personalised information for the people. Sixth, for the professional groups concerned, doctors, nurses, personnel of care units, etc., targeted information campaigns, awareness-raising for voluntary vaccination, based on scientific evidence that is constantly updated, subject to understanding of reasonable reservations and general perceptions. Even if the government had exhausted the margins of persuasion, it could not have suspended staff, but exploited it in areas, in operations where the risk of transmission is minimal. After all, this was the case in the previous phase of the pandemic that did not exist in the vaccine. Seventh, strengthen the public health system by recruiting permanent staff. Designation of the private health sector and supply of necessary medicines, materials and personal protective equipment. Eighth, strengthening state funding for the necessary measures to address merging in public transport, safe opening up all levels of education, etc. In conclusion, of course, the Government does not implement any of the above. Its responsibilities are criminal and continues its criminal work with the plan for the new ESS. Similar responsibilities are borne over time by all urban governments and the urban state in our country, but also by other countries, whose tragic consequences are reflected in the life and health of the peoples by the management of the pandemic, either by social democrats or by liberal governments. In view of the above, the Communist Party rejects and rejects this amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Cappatos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, with the COVID pandemic - 19 having hit our door in the beginning of March last year, we are now about a year and a half from the start of an unprecedented health adventure, an adventure with an unknown person, we would say, an enemy we have never seen before in modern European and global history. With the development of the crisis, this enemy began to become known to us. From the first steps to avoid the spread of the virus to the necessary social distances and the limitation of social and economic activities we understood that only coordinates, organised and step by step - we could achieve the best possible result. And then the vaccine came. This weapon of science allowed the Greek state to design, organize and implement an unprecedented operation to arm citizens under the flagship "Freedom" operation, a programme that made them aware, mobilised and persuaded the citizens to participate together in a joint effort to take our lives and everyday life back. In view of this experience, we are debating and voting today on the Health Ministry's amendment on the obligation to show a certificate of vaccination or illness, as well as the obligation to vaccinate in specific occupational categories related to the health sector, an amendment which, of course, did not occur arbitrarily and was not designed in a closed office of government bureaucracy. On the contrary, it followed the rule that the policy has taken place since the first time of the crisis and it is no longer on the basis of the scientific proposals. In this case, the National Committee for Bioethics and Technology, in which scientists and researchers are acquainted, is setting up a series of proposals concerning the mandatory vaccination of certain professional groups in the field of health. In particular, the Committee recommended three distinct parameters: Firstly, targeted information and awareness-raising campaigns for voluntary vaccination tailored to each professional group, based on scientific evidence which, in fact, is updated on a continuous basis. Secondly, planning of incentive measures - state discouragement in cooperation with the administration of health establishments, such as facilitating an appointment for vaccination and working hours on days of vaccination, as well as prioritisation in the selection of permits. Thirdly, the provision of compulsoryity on the basis of a specific time horizon and on the basis of labour or public law, a provision which self-evidently requires that the consequences of the division of tasks be taken into account in order to avoid the existence of the latter or the burden of labour of other workers. We do not, of course, ignore the fact that this committee recommendation concerns only the specific professional groups of staff of the public and private health establishments, as well as the staff of vulnerable groups. It is also the same committee's view that over time the hesitancy over vaccines against COVID -19 for both specific professional groups and the general population is a dynamic reduction. This suggests the daily vaccination data in Greece, which we take into account in the application of these options. These are the guidelines we are voting on today, the rules of which relate to three categories of workers. Workers in care facilities for the elderly, disabled persons and medical and nursing staff working in health structures. Finally, there is provision, among other things, for the worker to be informed of vaccination, while there will be three-month contracts for the replacement of unvaccinated animals. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude my introduction with a reference to the core of the bill that we are voting on today, having worked it out in detail in the committee responsible. The text we are voting on today relates to a new and integrated organic law of the Court of Auditors. This law will now be subject to the institution, regulating all its procedural, organic and operational issues. This is a piece of legislation which follows on from Law No4700/2020 passed by Parliament a year ago and with the adoption of uniform procedural rules, it brought all the necessary changes to the functioning of the Court of Auditors, a piece of legislation which brings together a number of important features: First and foremost with the draft law, the existing regulations are being adapted to the newer elements of the constitutional case-law of the Court of Auditors, as well as the case-law of the Court of Justice of the European Union and of the European Court of Human Rights. At the same time, another feature of the draft law is that it complements any legislative gaps in order to defend the fundamental rights of those controlled to ensure that, on the one hand, the Greek legal order goes hand in hand with the international good practice of effectiveness of control. Another important feature is the provision for upgrading the Court of Auditors' cooperation with Parliament, so that our National Representation is provided with high-level technical information, but also with budgetary and pension cooperation. In addition, this draft law introduces a different system of budgetary responsibility which is a reality of the principles of proportionality, transparency, fair balance, which is revised, renewed and modernised in the new work of the Court of Auditors. Finally, we adopt digital technology and electronics in the audit procedures. The aim is to monitor the reliability of the audited information systems and to carry out audits by the Court of Auditors, a function which is satisfied with the development and supply of artificial intelligence software capable of detecting problematic accounts, transactions or actions. I should like to close my report by pointing out the reference made by the Minister at the last meeting of the committee. This is the issue of the absorption of money from the Recovery Fund and the matter of the Court of Auditors. In particular, in considering the employment of judges on the control issues that will arise in the context of the Recovery Fund projects, the provision of new organic positions included in the draft law may prove to be crucial for the implementation of the financial programmes to be adopted. In Kefalonia and Ithaca we very much await the positive contribution of the Recovery Fund for a series of projects that our country needs. Therefore, this draft law contributes indirectly to satisfying this need. Having recorded the basic contribution of this draft law, I think it is easy to understand the importance and necessity of the arrangements it includes, a bill that responds to the request both for the continuity and sustainability of the institutions of the organised state and for the esteem of our joint effort to overcome the health crisis as soon as possible. These are parameters which we neither have the luxury nor the right to overlook. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Blonde from SYRIZA now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall obviously refer to the point at issue, namely the amendment on compulsory expenditure. We're at a very critical phase of pandemic. There's an outburst, a rejuvenation. The influence of the delta mutation is threatening. There is a health and economic precariousness very much right now in the country. And, obviously, all the majorities of Europe's most successful vaccination programme for blue freedom, which has been promoted for the excellent management that has been carried out during this great health crisis, have actually been brought to the detriment of this reality. I think what we need at this stage is first of all the acceleration of vaccinations. This is crucial. Today they are vaccinated with a single dose of five and a half million people and with two doses of about four million seven hundred thousand. Nearly 45% of the population has full immunization, when Europe and our country's goal was to be 70% at the beginning of the summer. So huge divergence from this objective. And this delay in the rapid building of immune protection is the favourable ground for the influence of new mutations and for this health precariousness of this period. So the crucial thing is to speed up vaccination. There are serious and major problems here. 30% of people over eighty years of age are inconsistent, which is the population with absolute priority that should be protected. Why has that happened? Because it has been tragically delayed - it is not the only reason, but it is important - to organise the system of home-to-house vaccinations, which we have said from the outset - could be handled through public primary care structures in synergy with the social services of the municipalities and 'Help at home'. And at this time the government has been re-emerging. After seven months he decided to launch it. It tries to involve the private sector, private doctors who do not respond and have not thought from the outset that this intervention can be done and implemented only by public structures and if necessary in areas where we have reduced human potential in primary care, to be assisted and private doctors. Second, good epidemiological surveillance, early diagnosis, good case tracking, extensive testing, intervention in over-transmission areas that are workplaces and entertainment areas at this time. Basically, this landscape had been left completely uncontrollable. There have been terrible recurrings, people have moved to the islands with the sole guarantee of a precarious diagnostic methodology such as the self-test that everyone could actually say what they want. And that explains the problems that have occurred in some tourist destinations, mainly by invasive seasonal staff and visitors. And, of course, strengthening the public health system and not discussing openings to the market, public-private partnerships or mergers of major structures that need to be strengthened and supported in order to upgrade and not shrink at this time, such as the plan which is slowly bringing the government public. Has the government done all this? Apparently not. Not even the suggestion made by the National Bioethics Commission - to which my colleague referred earlier - has taken into account. Therefore, instead of all these escalating interventions, which should be preceded, and only as a last resort, to have a debate on the mandatoryity of specific professional groups and categories, to ensure that certain services relating to vulnerable groups, patients, elderly people, people with disabilities are exercised by vaccinated persons, which is absolutely legitimate, morally and scientifically required and from a medical point of view, bring us a provision which now actually introduces the annulling of a fundamental right to work and to survival and dignity. So I think that this move, blackmail, will trigger major social reactions in the next period, cultivate a polarisation and a division. The government is trying to play with the indignation of the vaccinated against the invaders, and I think it is inclined to see a social cruelty in which there is obviously no possibility of consensus. We are therefore firmly opposed to this method. It is true that we support the idea of universal vaccination, that we support the idea of vaccination as a right, which must be guaranteed equally throughout the world through the removal of patents and international initiatives and, of course, as an act of social solidarity towards our weak people. This is crucial. It cannot be promoted with punishing reasonableness. There is a crisis of confidence, ladies and gentlemen, today of a part of society towards the state, its institutions and, of course, the government's management. And the crisis of confidence requires confidence-building measures. Fear and hesitation do not respond with fear of dismissal, unemployment and poverty. So I think that is crucial. If we do not inoculate society with confidence and security, all these interventions will have the opposite effect. And, of course, it is pretentious to choose at this stage the mandatoryity for a very limited group of people who are health and social care professionals. We don't even know what the population is targeting this regulation. My colleague told us earlier that it is estimated that twenty-five thousand to thirty thousand uninvasive health workers are counted, and a few thousand more uninvasive workers in social welfare structures. With the remaining three million uninvasive adults in the country, what are you going to do exactly? How will we achieve the acceleration of collective immunity? Are we going to generalised requirement? Is that the plan? I think if you have such a scenario in your mind, you're deeply sleepy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So you try to take advantage of society's legitimate demand that people who work at critical posts be vaccinated to move forward with a regulation of generalised compulsory and blackmailed consensus. I think that is not going to have any effect on trying and protecting public health.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u42	You're welcome, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u43	This government, ladies and gentlemen, has shown that, because it has a neoliberal and authoritarian culture, because it has a culture of zero tolerance and a lack of safeguarding social and political, consensus in this critical crisis, cannot effectively handle these challenges, it cannot ensure either the support of the social state health system, nor can it shield our precious tourism product, the real economy, it cannot respect the Constitution and the rules of the rule of law. That is why I think that the social demand for change in political things and the creation of conditions for progressive governance is on a daily basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u44	Mr. George Kamine has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Madam President, and thank the colleagues who have kindly given me their position. Ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with a reality which does not allow us to emit contradictory messages on the subject of pandemic. We all know that the only means of recovery at the moment of the pandemic is vaccination. Well, here they don't fit a half-word or any contradictory messages. We need to speak out loud. We may have our objections to how the government has more generally handled the issue of pandemic, its repatriations, its contradictions, its multilingualism, its tendency to satisfy everyone, but in this matter, the mandatory vaccinations must not be backed up. We saw who protested yesterday. They are people who essentially support a right that is constitutionally nonexistent. There is no right in our legal order not to be restricted by the rights of others, especially when their exercise harms the right to life of others. In Article 5, we will see that life has absolute protection. Any weightings we make should take this into account. So the right - I stress, directly - to the lives of others is not understood in our legal order. Where then, there are structures in which there are people whose lives are at stake, especially in welfare areas, in health structures, in kindergartens, in schools, it is not understood to object to the right not to be vaccinated. Any person relying on such a right shall be obliged to bear the consequences. On the question of the Court of Auditors, I would like to stress that once again I see the work of the government of George Papandreou, who has been wronged in its time, but the more the time goes on its work. This is where we fall on L.3871/2010 for financial management and responsibility. It was the first law to introduce into our fiscal legislation the concept of new fiscal governance. This is a first attempt to unblock financial law from its old typology so that there can be greater flexibility in line with the socio-economic conditions. It was the first time that public money management has been so closely linked to the principle of sound financial management, that is to say, sound management and with the aim of ensuring budgetary sustainability with the principle of accountability, accountability, transparency and honesty. It was the first time that they heard in such a substantial way and applied the concepts of the productivity of the state, efficiency, efficiency and economics as specific parameters of financial management. These are the concepts that are rightly repeated in the bill we are discussing today. Experience has of course shown us that in order to make progress in monitoring the performance of public spending, not only the laws, but the political will to do so too. I am thinking here of the large number of derogating public contracts which have been laid down by law and which have been concluded over the last two years, contracts for which in most cases we are unable to see their exceptional nature. The bill is in a positive direction. This is an attempt to systematically focus on a single piece of legislation which is dispersed by the Court of Auditors. In order to strengthen the use of electronic means in individual procedures and the digital interconnection provided for in Article 69, we are nonetheless concerned about what we have heard in the Commission that the new information system of the Court of Auditors has not yet been completed. In particular, I believe that it is also the fact that legal rules of the Court of Auditors itself are reflected, but also of the Council of State, such as the right of the previous hearing. Articles 141 and 153 in the same positive direction, which categorise the degree of liability of the controller, the type of deficits and provide for a reduction in the amount charged on the basis of the principle of fair balance. All of this brings legal certainty to an area where there is ambiguity in many, and I can assure you that, from my experience in local government, it is something that causes such fear to categories of entire civil servants so that administrative action is often paralysed. We are, of course, taking a step forward towards financial control in prisons and detention shops. We have pointed this out here - you know, Minister - on many occasions. We have said that detention shops are black holes in the financial situation as they have never been regular and, more importantly, extraordinary checks. Let us not forget that prisons even manage the money earned by the prisoners in their jobs or are intended for their needs. A pre-existing decision of 2016 of the Court of Auditors established for the first time a procedure for the control of financial management in Greek prisons. And, as the Federation of Penitentiary Officers told us, few checks have been carried out by the Commissioners. We then called on the Minister to adopt the Court of Auditors' decision as soon as possible. Even so, we are seeing these two articles incorporated into the bill. But the Court of Auditors and the State in general must equip the Commissioners responsible for this task with a specific training and resources, and also with the means to check the conditions within prisons, which avoids tight financial control. We therefore hope that the Commissioners will highlight both the other huge deficits in anti-crime policy, which I have repeatedly stressed, namely the lack of an effective legal instrument to protect the detainees from the general detention conditions and the two-year suspension, Minister, of the institution of social work, which we can finally see when we will be able to discuss. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Minister now has the floor, Mr Skulakakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u47	Thank you very much, Madam President. I am very grateful to Mr Scandalides for the opportunity to have a debate on this. I will go directly, because time is valuable, your own above all, in the amendment, and I will present it with an article - an article in substance or rather in its basic sections. The first part of the amendment concerns the definition of ESA as a key control tool in the Recovery Fund. The EESC, for anyone who does not know it, is a service of the General Accounting Office of the State, which is responsible for monitoring all European programmes in the country. So it combines both the tradition and credibility of the General Accounting Office - which we all know is how important - and an important credibility vis-à-vis the European institutions. We anticipated it as a basic control mechanism in the project, and here are the provisions to allow it. Then, for the technical assistance it will need to implement the Recovery Fund, we have provisions to ensure that there are the same tools in the ministries and in the special agency of the Fund, which has the NSRF, to do the same work, although the pressure on the Fund is far greater than the pressure on the NSRF. As you know, the NSRF applies n+3, while here we have set a n-1, that is, we've got to finish everything by December 31, 2025 and have eight months to delay, because then the money is gone. The third part relates to the special service and, in particular, to the loan instrument provided for in the fund. The special service must also have the competence for this tool and this competence includes the eligibilitys and a register of assessors which will complement the confirmation of these eligibilitys. The choices, you all know them. We've discussed them in detail. Green digital outwards, partnerships, takeovers, mergers and research and development. How will they be evaluated? There'll be a double evaluation. In other words, because the banks will make money without any guarantee, they will also carry out an evaluation of the eligibilitys and then evaluate the ratings that will come from the register that we will define. And only if we both agree, the loan will go ahead. The only exception to this is the two European financial institutions that are quasi-public, EIB and EBRD. The European Investment Bank is directly owned by the European institutions. EBRD is also the property of European institutions and several dozen states. However, there are two very reliable agencies, so we trust them to do their own evaluation. The next article concerns the accumulation of aid. There too, because many tools are in place to support investment and because the loan instrument will have low aid - that is to say, 4% to 15% for small and medium-sized enterprises, it can be up to 20% for the aid, which entails a maximum interest rate of 50% of the RRF loan - we see the possibility of it being able at the same time - especially small and medium-sized enterprises with other aid instruments - to be addressed to other aid instruments and the additional aid it receives is cumulated with the aid it receives through the recovery fund loan. As far as the staffing of services - which also made some impression in the press - are concerned that have been followed up and implemented, here to be clear... [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] I've asked for seven minutes. The President-in-Office gave me five minutes in wisdom, but I will use the other two to three minutes. Administering the services. This is not a special service we are talking about. She'll stay forty people. We are talking about the needs that will arise and which cannot be met by the existing services structures, which have the following paradoxical feature: because the fund for the time is a single fund, it will have different needs for the time services. Other times should be empty. Others will be to get notices. Others will be, so the platforms can move on. In other words, it will also change the need for individuals who will be assisted by the Ministries - but the ministries will also be able to get through this - but also for people who have the right to sign. In other words, they will be able to operate within the ministries. So here we put two provisions: one which provides for secondments at a very high speed and one for a certain number of people, for people with the qualifications required to cover these positions, who will come and be available for a few months or a year for this service, and who will be able to change their service until the end of the usefulness of their services. Now we're talking about up to a hundred people, the most we can get with this tool. They'll have a minimum of one year, because otherwise you can't attract someone to work. And under no circumstances can they acquire any kind of permanentity and will have a maximum depending on the usefulness of the services and the life of the fund. It's actually one-- we'd say it in English - pool people, which is...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u48	Rusfetti...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u49	What do you think?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u50	Congratulations on your legislative ruffles!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u51	I don't feel like making ruffles, Mr. Ragosi. Know that when you choose to do the job with very few people, because it depends on the political success of this...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u52	I'll see you later, Mr. Dog.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u53	Please be very polite to us. Don't interrupt me for no reason. You can say what you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u54	You're writing history again, good.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u55	Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u56	Look, let me tell you. Everyone can say what they want and have the needs of the opposition. I have no need to serve beyond achieving the project, and above all I do not need to serve any such service. The reason we did a service with a few suffocating officials is precisely that. And here, again, people are extremely few. Look at the various governments with how many people manage the NRP. Do a little self-criticism, because self-criticism - because, Mr Ragosisi, you have been through many governments - is something you lack. It's like there's a memory gap for the duration of your government avenues. But I will not then enter this debate. Finally, I am going to go to a very important provision concerning the Court of Auditors. We are giving the Court of Auditors the opportunity to make a judicial decision on the competition notices. Over here, you have a little bit of time to implement the fund and the greatest risk to have a failure, which we will all pay because the money is lost, it's to be a contest and then come some kind of good or malicious to question the proclamation. Challenging the proclamation, questioning the procedure is something that can take some time, but it's solved. Because a process at the end of a competition, if one has been wronged, can find his point. But if you cancel the contract notice, then the whole contest goes and the damage that can be done is huge. So here, what we are doing, and this is an act of transparency, we have the Court of Auditors from the outset to monitor the notices and make a judicial decision that the notice is legal. Finally, we have some transitional provisions relating to an extension to tourism only, because tourism will still not recover completely at the levels of the previous years, obviously, and there is more time for the tourism business that has been hit by much more than 70% and 85% reductions in turnover, in order to regulate their checks. We also put in place a provision that was necessary for advance payments in order to enable anyone to pay to the ECA and to tax when receiving an advance from the State. That is all I wanted to say and to conclude - apologise, Madam President, for the time being - that in the fund's case of success and speed, and efficiency, we will need innovative tools and these innovative tools can be seen with suspicion - I have the impression that he sees everything with suspicion - but for society in general, it is of enormous importance. And at the end of the day we will be judged by the result in this fund case. We will not be judged by what we will say by opposing each other here in the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, too, Minister. The parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, Mr Constantine Scandalidis, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Madam President. However, Minister, the political and decision mistrusts it and not the intentions of parties or the government. Specific political choices and decisions and these will be judged throughout, because you manage a huge historic opportunity for the country that should not be lost. I have never charged nor will I charge intentions in the sense of personal intent, but I judge these policies. But I will come to this at the end of my speech, because I would like to refer more specifically to it. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to recall because Mr Kamine recalled the laws of Mr George Papandreou and the PASOK government of 2010, to recall - and it is extremely dedicated to the great success of Greek Yiannis Antetokounbo in NBA - that there was a frontal confrontation between the progressive forces and the political participation of Greek citizens and the legitimate residents of migrants. A great controversy, literally frontal, because we would practically ignore the criterion of blood. When we claimed that participation and then integration into day-to-day education, as they used to say, forms consciences and develops a new patriotism to people who were not born or have no origin from here, but with their participation here, they enable us to build what we have seen in the face, the words and the soul of Giannis Antetokubo. I am not saying this in order to bless our beards, because the problem is still ahead of us, and it is good that today's condolence to Antetokubo's face is to be expressed as a permanent majority based on social inclusion, and in tomorrow's difficult steps, because migration has not been solved, the issues of citizenship have not been resolved. It is a modern problem that will follow in the years to come and we must all deal with it with a real solution to essential integration and creative participation in the development effort that the country is making. That's as an introduction. For the area of justice and the draft law, every bill that solves pond problems and anachronistic delays will have our support. And we must admit that in this bill the Government for the Court of Auditors is taking positive steps, so it will have a positive vote. Our rapporteur has completely covered both our positive contribution and vote and our individual proposals and comments, as well as Mr Kamines and Mr Kegerolgos who spoke later. I just want to note something and I'll close it down. Tuesday I was in Corinth and we had a meeting with the lawyers and, more generally, with the legal world. It was a very interesting conversation. Because the problems that we have known and know about Greek justice and its functioning exist and are great - codification is good, the availability of resources is good and the modernisation and digitisation - but there is always from our experience all these years, this assumption: that the pace of intervention is absorbed by the speed of developments and the amount of problems, old and young. So, here we need a total upsizing of the space. As far as its infrastructure is concerned and as far as its functions are concerned. I would say that, if formerly, Minister, in the NSRP programmes and in the Community Support Frameworks, it was difficult to provide for funds and special funds to become large programmes in the field - usually national resources were those beyond the exceptions that we used - now with the freedom to manage the resources of the Recovery Fund, it is good to claim as a government a very important percentage to make this overall realisation of the infrastructure and the area of justice. I think it is a crucial issue for the work of democracy and I repeat that we need to improve the working conditions of the Court of Auditors. It is something very positive that we are voting on. For the Health Ministry's amendment, we are in favour of the requirement for specific places where intervention is not to the limit of individual responsibility, but serves the collective need. Our positive vote has this meaning, that is what matters. This does not deny our criticism of the improper policy that is facing the problems and the selective policies that separate the areas of sensitivity to friends and hostiles, the multilingualism and the theater of absurdity that the government has often shown. One dismisses the inconveniences of public health, the other 'we did not say that, but we are talking about availability'; the third is neither redundancies nor availability, unpaid leave. It does not convince such an image of a vaccination policy that will bring the world together and claim it. Not even, if you want, the communication strategy that is naive. He's dealing with various spots naive because he has to go vaccinate the other one. There is no structured intervention between the real skepticists and the sprayed ones, the skepticists and the negative ones, those who in no way accept to enter the debate at all. Here we need individual specific policies, we need planning, and we need provision before we get to the problem and we run to solve it afterward. I think, therefore, that despite a positive vote on the issues relating to the Health Ministry's amendment on vaccination for the mandatory voting and as many comments as we have made, the government's policy needs to change overall. The same is shown in the amendment by the Ministry of Rural Development for the ELGA. We're not saying no. Put other exceptional issues, such as allowances. But always exceptional? You're two years of government. You could make a new regulation adapted to current developments. This organization has gone far beyond things. There are no selective policies with the Agency, if everything is planned. Now you're not predicted and you're coming here and saying distractively: to give those who've suffered this disaster? Let's give it a shot. Can we say we don't give producers? No party can say that it is reacting to this process, when the other party is really wintering. But this selective policy is not right. There could be the provision of a new regulation in order to bring about this substantial change and reform, since you are insisting that you are a reformist government. I now come to the amendment concerning the Ministry of Finance. First of all, Minister, once again in the form of an amendment which goes beyond the parliamentary procedure, without any real discussion, you bring in a draft law, to discuss something that we are now seeing and which concerns an entire procedure, for which our concerns are justified. Most of the provisions of the amendment include provisions for the control and operation of the National Resource Management Mechanism of the Recovery and Resilience Fund. A general comment. The Government continues with the same lack of transparency, consultation and accountability to regulate all issues relating to the Recovery and Resilience Fund. Since you took over, we've been constantly telling you about your ultimate state and this centralisation that distinguishes your choices. While you had started sending the first projects in the national plan, you put the ideas report in public at the time, which was nothing more than a description of the programme's pillars and values, without a description of investments and a distribution of resources. The consultation was completely pretextary, and that is why it resulted in fiasco. In fact, they didn't participate. Now you come and say that in order for there to be no room for failure, it is necessary that the proposals and all of them are mature and ready, in such a way that what the productive social actors are proposing is considered immature and that what you say will be considered mature. So you may be able to make available the resources according to the beam. Let us say more specifically: Recruitment is for 12 months in the specific agency in the Ministry of Finance, where 100 posts do not involve qualified staff, since no serious and qualified private sector staff will go for 12 months to the Ministry of Finance. In addition, provisions for derogating secondments in the abovementioned services create another window of circumvention of the fixed customer mobility arrangements, pretexted by the Recovery Fund. The two transitional provisions provide for an ad hoc network of raters chosen by the banks, with criteria to be set by you for disbursing loans under the Recovery Fund, until the operations referred to in Article 8 and Article 9 mature. It is clear that similar choices have to do with a concentration of decisions in the name of effectiveness. The concentration of decisions in the name of efficiency poses enormous risks and can be managed essentially, which will not lead to a serious use of these resources. And here it is once again - and my language will grow - the confrontation of the so-called state of staff, which operates centrally, which operates with one-sided institutions, even with executive powers that go beyond the limits of personal responsibility and of a democratic programming that would put its society and its institutions in order to ensure transparency. Efficacy mechanisms can also be found through democratic planning. We are not in the name of efficiency, we are abolishing democracy and the participation of actors and, in fact, we are dismantling the institutional formation of democracy. So I think that's where we're standing up. That is why, unfortunately, we shall vote against your amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u59	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Now Mr Papadimitriou has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u60	Thank you very much, Madam President. I hope that with the return in September we no longer need the masks and have the opportunity, in a way, to serve as an employer in the Bureau, the certificates of vaccination, so that we can go a little further and within this building. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We must say that in short the debate on the regulation which appears as an amendment results in a simple thing. Either you are in this House and clearly put it on the subject of vaccination, such as colleagues from the major opposition, and as has clearly explained to us the Change - PASOK - and I am glad that you have the opportunity to discuss it - or else you join people who, in their own way - do well to be democracy - express this anti-scientific, anti-scientific and reactionary concept, which we are seeing. Fortunately it's in Syntagma Square and nobody's losing it. So things are simple. We need to take a position. And if we don't get it now, we'll call September, we'll call in October. We won't avoid it. You, ladies and gentlemen, will not avoid this either. Therefore, if you look at the numbers - because you keep saying about numbers and I like numbers - we certainly said that there were delays, that was the companies, that was the European Commission, that was the fault of many, that was ten million. Today we are talking about it will have closed ten million. So in the five months we're inoculated, we'll have about two million a month. In March we had about one million vaccinated, one million nine hundred thousand in April - rose by about nine hundred thousand. In May it increased by one million three hundred thousand, in June by three hundred thousand, in July by about nine hundred thousand. So we're not going as well as we'd like, but we're going very well. And finally, for one thing that is good that we have set up here, which everyone has congratulated us, to listen to the Vice-Presidents that they do not even like, is purely grievous and does not fit in with people who have done their duties seriously, such as Mr Xanthos. In short, SYRIZA has now come to support the theories of an extremely interesting philosopher, Robert Nozick, who as a liberator himself - it is difficult to translate - believes that everyone should be so master of his body that it is not subject to any kind of blackmail, as you say on televisions, or in any case, as I say. But we have to get out of this stage. We really need to go to the realm, which is one and only. The pandemic is over as we spent a year and a half. Now we're going back to business. Now we're going back to rebuild our family, our friends, our ability to see each other, to be a society. Now we're going back to schoolrooms. The kids, there's no other way, they've got to come back. So now we're talking about the sanitary, which I would think is completely self-evident. Only delays in vaccination could justify the fact that the government is delaying this arrangement, in my opinion. But when we talk in September about teachers, what do we say? Again? Aren't we going to make some progress? We should not tell them that 'Children, we should end this case a little.' Therefore, the example is given by young people. You gave it, in an incomprehensible way in my eyes, the fact that there was an idea that existed elsewhere and brought it to Greece by Mitsotakis and Greece, which says "freedom pass, who wants it?". A hundred and fifty thousand lifted their hand right now. One company, the largest air travel company, AEGEAN, announced that it would double the bonus. What's wrong with all this so you don't want it? Let's find another field of controversy. Thank God we won't get lost in this. We cannot otherwise understand the simply Greek of the Committee on Bioethics, which says exactly what we are discussing here. The requirement as a last resort which must have a specific time horizon must be applied only if the previous measures do not bring about a significant increase in the rate of vaccination and the precise application of that measure, on the one hand, to be determined on the basis of labour and public law, on the other hand, require that any impact on the division of tasks and structure be taken into account. Things are simple. We will either move together on things that concern the management of the state and ultimately of society, or we will keep reservations. You'll stay behind the church. I've been listening to Metropolitan Ilios Athenagora since this morning. All the Church’s answers at the moment are identical to science’s answers. We can't give another one. On Sunday the believers will be in front of this dilemma. The priests themselves - who were saying things that were not sent up, were ill, said Athenagoras this morning, now they understood - will become the largest - if you want - defenders of the need for vaccination. The world is moving forward, and so we in Parliament must move on together. You said, Mr. Xanthi, there is overtransmission in the workplace. I don't know where you're supporting it, but shouldn't we go back to the workplace properly? Should the civil servants not return to the structures of the state? Shouldn't private employees go back to their jobs? Should the work not be reorganised? Always with what we won. Because we have won the fact that we now know that we can work well and collectively and efficiently both from home or from another place. So what we are currently having is a step forward and this step must be taken together. We should not divide ourselves into this, because this is the main message that we will give a positive message to those of our fellow human beings who object and we must continue to speak with them. I, too, would suggest to the JRC colleagues who are good at this, that they put their duty to the party 'how much you convinced that they should be vaccinated today'. This must be done, starting with an excellent article from August 22, 2020 at the "RIZOSOPASTI": "How the Soviet Union has crushed the bosom virus by a decree of mandatoryity by Lenin". He says this here in his report "RIZOPAST" that Lenin himself signed it, and well the man did it, especially when the blessing was exactly a problem like that and it was at the time the Spanish flu came by, unfortunately. So we're not talking about compulsoryity. We're not talking about people's consciences. But we're talking about how we work and we'll live together. This is quite a different thing than to force someone on matters of conscience. But we tell him that if you want to work, and if you want to work together, if you want to do things like societies do, then there are certain conditions. And the condition is, of course, vaccination. No compelling. It is with enthusiasm that we must convince each other and move on. You will see that by September there will be very few - if they are left - who will fall down on these provisions. And it is good, Minister, to clarify the subject of the employer himself, because we say you have to show the certificate. We do not say what the employer is to do himself. He must have the same self-evident obligation whether he is an employee in his company or not. We shall make that clear. It is a good thing that there are no doubts. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u61	Thank you very much, Mr President. Now Mr Maraveyas has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u62	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the draft legislation we incorporate in a single text a number of organic regulations for the Court of Auditors, while at the same time the institution's capacity to provide a high level of information to Parliament on budgetary and pension issues is being upgraded. Provisions are also contained to speed up pre-contractual control by setting up scales for the exercise of the court's contractual control over draft contracts relating to national defence, public security, public health and the absorption of funds from Union programmes. Deposit and performance issues are also regulated by electronic means and the development of special software for digital procedures before the Court of Auditors. It is clear that modernising the framework of the Court of Auditors, which introduces the bill we are debating today, is so necessary that I believe it will get the vote of at least one part of the opposition, because there is no reason for some to fight professionally, systematically at all even at the most obvious. However, we shall now go to what should be obvious, but unfortunately they are not a common place for all of us. I am, of course, talking about the amendment on compulsory vaccination of health and welfare structures staff. I was amazed to read SYRIZA's communication yesterday, which two valuable executives even sign. So the fact that SYRIZA is against mandatory vaccinations has known for a long time. After all, the former Deputy Minister for Health had made it clear that no moral or legal obligation binds him as a professional in the health field. However, what is happening today is that the official SYRIZA comes to be fully aligned with the former Minister by identifying imported compulsoryity - I read, for instance, from his announcement - 'with the availability to the public'. In other words, after everything that happened in the country over the last one and a half years with the pandemic, what he understood is that it is a good opportunity for the government to exploit available resources or a good opportunity to exploit - I will say - but for political exploitation. Why do you not care about the health of the hospitals, the elderly or the disabled in public or private units? Why do you have to tell everyone what they want to hear, to the vulnerable that they must be protected, to the vaccine-negatives that they do not have an obligation, to health workers who remain uninvasive and do not offer a service that conspiracy planners should continue to protest in the squares by creating outbreaks of virus transmission and SYRIZA taking the lead by taking - as his leader himself said - the risk of illness and other people? And because the SYRIZA is said and heard about the vaccination, the government, the successful management of the pandemic, let's think about the citizens who hear us this: Let's assume that in 2019 the Tsipras government normally continued its service. This means that today the Deputy Minister for Health would not have Mr Contozamanis, but Mr Polakis, the man who refused to make any vaccine against the coronary because he claims to be all experimental and even refers to the review of the subject in the autumn, when we will obviously have a larger number of vaccinated and he will feel better. Of course, how we get this larger number of vaccinated following this tactic did not answer us. So imagine if we were in charge of the Ministry of Health, Mr. Polakis. What man would go to vaccinate today, listening to the relevant Minister questioning experts - not only the scientists who created such successful vaccines within a really short time - but even the infectiousists of the committee to take measures against the coronary whom he also considers to be bad scientists? Anyone who does not agree with the former Minister is a bad scientist and a good scientist for some unknown reason is the only one who, as a first measure, prefers monoclonal antibodies. He forgets, of course, the basic principle of medicine, that prevention is better than healing. I keep thinking about myself. However, I wonder what would happen if Mr Paulakis were Minister, who, instead of the vaccines, would put the monoclonal antibodies as the main measure against the coronary. How would society react by listening to the Minister responsible saying that vaccination is now meaningless? Yesterday's announcement of the SYRIZA comes to complete these unrealistic positions of Mr Polakis. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point the Member, Mr Constantine Maraveyas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It complements these extra-real positions and confirms that Greece was extremely lucky when Kyriakos Mitsotakis took over the country two years ago. What disaster would have been caused in Greek society without systematic vaccinations happily today can only be discussed as a case. The responsibility that SYRIZA does not show is ultimately shown by fellow citizens. Over a hundred twenty thousand young people rushed yesterday to use the freedom pass. Even those who cannot for any reason move are now covered by home vaccination programmes. Everyone has the possibility of free choice of vaccine without doubts and delays. In fact, on the occasion of the recent events at Volos’ home, the Magnesia society was glad to see workers in the institution changing attitudes by accepting the urgent need for vaccination. This undeniable necessity comes to serve the amendment which does not, of course, impose vaccination on those who have proven reasons for health who prevent it from being carried out. It goes without saying that the measure of suspension of tasks in the public sector solely for imperative reasons of public health does not mean that it could not mean dismissal for any health. Unfortunately, these exist only in the minds of Officer Opposition. In conclusion, Madam President, I would also like to stress the importance of Mr Lebanese's amendment for the prepayment of 40% of the compensation to farmers affected this year by the frost. This is the implementation of the Prime Minister's personal commitment to cover all the people affected by the ices of last spring. In particular, compensation may be paid by the ELGA for up to 100% of the insured value of the agricultural land damaged by an advance payment of 40% of the damage. It also provides for the possibility of payment from the programme of State financial aid of the same advance and for producers whose crops were in pre-anthic stage. The level of compensation per beneficiary per year is increased from 70,000 to 210,000 euros following the decision of the Ministers for Rural Development and Finance on specific damages among which the frost is now included. In particular, for the farmers of Magnesia these measures are proved valuable and I would like to thank personally the Ministry of Rural Development for its initiative and its response to my parliamentary reports in June and April on these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Mr President. The Parliamentary spokesman of Mera25, Mrs Adamopoulou, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u64	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a bill from the Ministry of Justice concerning the Court of Auditors' organic law and related provisions. Clearly it is a complementary and reformative text, we would say, which seeks further codification of the provisions and the regulatory framework governing the procedures and powers of the Court of Auditors. I will not go into detail on the more specific content of the provisions of the bill. I will say that on the matter of the very short return of the Ministry to certain issues which have been dealt with very recently, the Minister told us that some corrective steps are justified because obviously the problems arise from the scope of the law in question and the problems of which the corrections made are justified. We share this logic of the Minister, but we also invite you to share our sensible criticism, which consists of two points. The first is that the so short legislative review of issues of any regulation testifies to the shortcomings, uncertainties and unfavourable approaches that existed in the amended legislation. Secondly, the law in question comes to regulate situations and extremely complex procedures. This is why there is de facto the risk in terms of certainty of further malfunctions, further gaps, further uncertainties. We believe that when you come to present and defend a bill, a legislative initiative would be a good thing to show greater self-determination when it comes to claiming infallibility on the part of the government. Ultimately the excessive confidence is the one that retrospectively turns boomerang and just demonstrates all these failures. I say this as an appeal not only to you, Minister, but to almost all the ministers of government. I am going to place myself on the bill, but I am obliged to say that the last one I mentioned on the absolute assurances and the absolute assurance that the ministers present is the very timely one that verifies this finding. So I shall refer briefly to the current situation, and I address Mrs Keramos in particular, to the legislation which she has brought about in relation to the changes made by the Ministry of Education. Mrs. Keramea comes exactly the same logic in this bill to tell us that with absolute certainty she did it all very well, that she does not lift a fly into her sword, that she possesses the secret of absolute success and that any negative criticism from the opposition or from anyone else is for flying. We see, however, that all this logic and its initiative have evolved into fiasco because all Greece has seen the unacceptable situation created by the minimum import base, especially by supplementing computers and announcing the results. So we ask Mrs Kerameau what she has to answer to parents, but above all to students who have long been, for over a year and a half with distance education, the problems of their respective application and Lockdown, have fought. Despite the fact that there are students who raised 18,000 and 18,500 molecules, at the moment the Minister of Education's whispers are excluded from admission to universities. So, Mrs. Kerameou explains to us why, with such scores, these students don't get excellent. Why, while there is educational potential, are there the infrastructure in the universities right now excluded from the universities? Why now should these children’s parents pay badly for private colleges to study their children? The answer is clear. This is the aim of the Ministry of Education. To promote the privatization and commercialisation of education. So to force parents now to pay for the higher education for their children's higher education. We know very well that public education, other than that, costs tax and higher economics. We are also asking Mrs Keramou if she has anything to propose with her brilliant ideas in relation to the inclusion in the timetables of primary and secondary school programmes which cultivate respect for women, respect for the child, respect for the fellow person. I won't just rely on sex. Respect in general, respect for the disabled, vulnerable groups, respect for diversity. We're fed up with little kids to hear the cliché that it's all about education. Clearly, the long-term improvement in society is a matter of education. We ask Mrs. Keramos if she has realised that the educational system has been transformed into a repository of information on paramedics, feeders of strengthening teaching, care centres and special courses. Is Mrs Kerameau aware that children of the first and second grades are currently in care, particularly courses, which you are being baptized with the label of supposedly creative employment? What does Mrs. Keramea have to say about this, do she think it's normal? We see women becoming victims of criminal behaviour which has the effect of toxic patriarchy. The other day, it was Helen Topalude in Rhodes, Caroline in the Freshwaters, the Cloves in Folegandros. We will mourn other victims. And the question is all these issues, Minister, how does the government intend to deal with them with the communication game of strict penalties? I say this because you are preparing a legislative initiative in relation to the criminal code and the tightening up of penalties. So will this problem be solved or by a change of model, i.e. by focusing on prevention? Neither will the severe penalties bring the victims back nor ease the pain that these victims feel at the moment. Question: What lessons do you think in the context of the provision of education are there for such searches to raise such concerns? They are lessons that you go and dismantle, such as sociology, such as social political and state education. It is a shame at the moment in the relevant notices to have as individuals who are intended to be appointed just eighteen university teachers in this sector. Why? Because Mr. Georgiadis covered you, who said sociology and all these lessons our children would make left. So let the crocodile tears for the victims who dry in fractions of a second, measure yourself with your conscience, measure yourself with the real problems of society and at last assume the individual and political and social responsibility you have towards all these phenomena and all these pathogens. I'm going to another issue of world news in tourism. We've seen the humiliating situation created by the Ministry's panic measures. We therefore call on Mr Theocharis to go and explain that he is doing everything well, that the workers should explain all this to the entrepreneurs, but also to the local communities that are experiencing a truly paranoid situation with measures which are withdrawn every five days. He also explains to the Mayor of Mykonos about mass detentions at the moment to take him off a liar. Explain to the ambassadors of the rest of the countries that have placed us on the blacklist and persuade them with their own arguments and in general see what they have to explain to journalists not of the well-deserved channels from the Petsa list, where they are up there saying what they say, but to unbiased journalists, such as the BBC journalist to whom they were unreportedly exposed. I shall therefore close my prototype - Madam President, I would like a little time for my dentistry - to mention the theme of this bill. Question: Do we want a public who serves the principles of good administration, transparency and accountability? Clearly we do. Some, of course, pretend to have good intentions, because the act comes to annul and I will be explained shortly. The Greek legal reality is that it finds inappropriate provisions, provisions which result in a blank letter. A law concludes an empty letter when its own scope is shrinked by the political will in question. Do we have a positive legislative initiative here? We do. Do we have any provisions that have been correctly devised? We do. Are we going to solve the major problem? No, we do not solve this, and I say that by mentioning a typical example. For a year and a half we have been living in the constellation and storm of direct awards, i.e. single projects break into various parts, in similar parts, but only small costs, to avoid control over the preventive Court of Auditors, so that there is a fragmentation, fragmentation of public money, money for taxpayers, money that fills the pockets of the day. You are buying extremely expensive or inappropriate services and products with the emergency label, and very often these unreasonable costs have nothing to do with the needs of the pandemic. We see that we pay gold renovations of ministerial and party offices only because you order and decide all this in the pretext of pandemic. So while we see that there is legislative process as correct as it may be and as much as it may seem to be, it becomes a rag when the government's day-to-day life comes to cancel this legislative process. So that's where the game is in practice and not in the FEKs. And I am going to go into my dentext, as mentioned in the amendment 'Obligation to demonstrate a certificate or certificate or certificate of vaccination or disease. Compulsory vaccination. Recruitment of fixed-term staff.’, that is the title of the amendment. In accordance with Article 1 of the pretext entitled ‘Obligation to show a certificate of vaccination or illness’, an obligation is therefore introduced for employers and an obligation for workers to demonstrate sensitive personal data. I do not have much time at the moment to say what it says. The very thing is that this provision comes with the government to literally put a bourgeoisie into society, it establishes the universal obligability of vaccination in an indirect, political, cowardly and socially destructive way by triggering a social automation between employers and workers, of course, by ensuring that this happens within a framework where employers have all the institutional arsenal in favour of them with the bill and Mr Brutsis and Mr Hatzidakis. Employers will be privileged from the day after tomorrow to require workers to share sensitive medical data with them. Of course, the article is incomplete, but the reason, the reasoning and, of course, the consequences of non-compliance must be mentioned. This article does not mention anything because the answer lies in the legislation of the “U.S.” government. Mitsotakis and the answer are in Mr Hatzidakis' working legislation, as well as the abolition of the legitimate ground for dismissal by his predecessor Mr. Vroutzis. It is clear, therefore, that the government of Mr Mitsotakis, having lost all control over the path of persuasion, has chosen the path of gross violation of fundamental human rights by introducing the mandatory vaccination of all workers forced on the basis of non-compliance. It is the epitome of legislative arbitrary, the way in which the government manages the pandemic. He consciously divides society, turns social groups against one another, creates situations of polarisation, uses his logic of "dividing and reigning", salamification, social automation at points of cannibalism instead of the Prime Minister himself taking responsibility for failure to manage the pandemic. So by throwing the ball to employers to terrorize workers to always be vaccinated at the risk of redundancies and thus creates an unprecedented dystopia for the great brother. We will, of course, vote against this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u65	Thank you too, my colleague. Now Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, ladies and gentlemen of the majority - and it is not even the Minister here any longer - I have to say that he would expect that today, when this amendment is at the heart of the debate and of course concerns the Greek people in general, he is at least the Minister of Health here and should support it and be receptive to a dialogue with opposition parties. The Minister for Health would, of course, have waited even more, when this debate began and it seemed that the government was going in this direction, that the relevant committee of Parliament had asked for a meeting in the past few days to be held in order to have a genuine political dialogue and, of course, that the relevant scientific and social bodies, that is to say, the Bioethics Committee, and of course the representatives of the workers, had also been invited. None of this, the total dismantling of Parliament today. And such an amendment comes in a completely interoperable way. I think that, as a first point, this is an unacceptable direction on the part of the government. The second issue. We all agree that the vaccine is the great good, the public good and the great weapon so that we can deal with this pandemic and this trial that we have spent a year and a half. It is also clear that there is a very long delay in the vaccination programme. It is indicative that the Mitsotakis Government itself and the Prime Minister himself said that the vaccination coverage in June would be 70% and is currently barely over 40-45%. What would anyone expect from a responsible democratic government? He will expect to analyse what the causes of these delays are, what the problems are and on the basis of this assessment he will have a political and social dialogue and deal with it. But why does the Government of New Democracy avoid such an as 'the hell of the Lebanese' making an assessment essential to solve the problems of delays? Because if this valuation and the balance sheet are done, it will have to make its self-criticism. She should confess that she invested in communication policy rather than in the actual information, that she herself has cultivated the complacentness, that she herself had bilinguality around vaccines, such as AstraZeneca, and that she had old ageings. It therefore avoids this account and this valuation and comes with its dearest method of shifting responsibility to society, the opposition, the workers. So it comes to divide rather than build confidence, as Mr Andreas Xanthos quite rightly said, that there is a breach of confidence in society that needs to be cured here. Instead, we see a government that comes to plunder, divide, comes to create a reaction through the measures it brings with authoritarianism. In fact, it came to light with this amendment, Minister, which you are also a Minister of Justice, which has clearly unconstitutional characteristics, as it comes with a punishment, which, ladies and gentlemen, will prove incomprehensible to the very objective of supporting vaccinations. So what does this amendment say and what is the hypocrisy behind its government's support? First of all, the government is distorting the debate itself. In other words, it attacks the opposition and even the SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance by saying that 'you do not support vaccinations, you do not support the need to have compulsory vaccination for health workers and workers in welfare centres', which is not true. SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance from the beginning supports and encourages vaccinations. From this step the President of SYRIZA, Alexis Tsipras, said a few days ago that limited charges, such as the spirit of the Committee on Bioethics' recommendation, such as health workers and workers at welfare centres, must of course be vaccinated. But what has supplemented and we say and claim - and there you do not want to have a political debate and a controversy - is that the self-evident thing must be done, that is, without prejudice to labour rights. So is that what you want to get over and come here with an amendment that actually does what? It takes a payroll and puts it into compulsory public leave and leads to redundancies, not only the special staff, but generally redundancies in the private sector. Let's get them one by one. First in public. Minister, it is not understood that the State as an employer is making workers, civil servants and officials compulsory, and at the same time not to pay wages. That's not what it means. It's unconstitutional. It cannot condemn public workers, civil servants, and biopolitics. It cannot, for an indiscriminate period of time, which may be months, condemn thousands of workers and families in a problem of survival. This is unconstitutional, coming and violating every concept of the right to work, human dignity, but of course also the right to decent living and even to the protection of the family. What could you do, which is an alternative you do not discuss, while in other countries such as Italy they are heading in this direction? You could very well say that these public officials who are not vaccinated for any reason are moved, transferred to other public services and functions and that's where they have an obligation...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u67	The nurses? Where'd the nurses go?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u68	First of all, I am glad you have come even now, Mr Secretary, because this whole debate is being held in the absence of the Ministry of Health. They could clearly be moved to other services and also for a number of other functions could even exist teleworking as required. In the private sector, we are clearly talking about redundancies. Mrs. Michaelidou had raised the matter and you packed her up. In fact, he had told the truth, he had testified to her. For, of course, in the private sector, when you say about health and care centres for elderly people and people with disabilities that they will be placed on unpaid leave, that simply does not exist. With the Hatzidakis law, we're talking clean about dismissal. The most reactionary article, however, is Article 1, ladies and gentlemen, the compulsory demonstration of a certificate of vaccination actually means that the Government in the private sector is here coming and applying the general vaccination requirement as of now. Because under the Hatzidakis Act and under the Brutsi Act, there is no longer a good reason for dismissal. But even under the Hatzidakis law, not even in court can as a worker find his right even to abusive dismissal, there is no obligation to re-entry. To tell you the truth, ladies and gentlemen of the government, that you are coming to open compulsory vaccination as a pretext in the private sector for generalised redundancies. So that's the reality. So we tell you that what we really need today is public health and the battle we give the pandemic is information, is to answer and have fun with the agony and concerns that the world really has that which is not uninvasive, fears, needs scientific support, does not need threats and propaganda, and to build confidence. Unfortunately, the path you have chosen to divide and it is the path that will not even address these serious problems of public health. That is why we are opposed to this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u69	Thank you too, my colleague. Mr Loverdos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u70	Good evening. Ladies and gentlemen, today the bill brought by the Ministry of Justice, which is an important bill, without any doubt, in fact retreats in front of the amendment tabled - correctly - in this draft law on compulsory vaccinations. I fully understand that, and as far as the contents of the bill are concerned, thankfully there are many worthwhile speakers from the New Democracy, such as the Minister and the State Secretary, our rapporteur, Mr Kouvelas and the parliamentary representative, Mr Ploris, to support it, who are excellent - not because they are my friends - Parliamentarians all four. I'm going to stay on the subject of mandatory vaccinations. You know, I am against the unrelated amendments to unrelated bills, but here, in this particular case, this amendment was correctly tabled today, because we have to end this pending once and for all. And it must end with the contribution of all of us. I was very sorry to hear two SYRIZA MPs, who belong to these people that I particularly appreciate as Mr Xanthos and Mrs Xeno-Giannakopoulou are. They are two very serious parliamentarians, which I appreciate. I've known Mrs. Xinoyannakopoulou for years, and I respect her and I love her. But I think they're wrong today. I think that they are making another very big mistake, which not only will be found in front of them at SYRIZA, our society will find it. The same mistakes you made in 2015 with the "scattering memorials", "I repeal memorials with a law or an article", "I bring referendums", which encouraged and deepened the counter-order movement in Greece, I fear you repeat today. I returned late last night from Cyprus, where I had the honour of representing the President and Parliament of the Greeks at the events that took place there for the 'black anniversary' of the Turkish invasion while Erdogan was in the Occupied and announced this unacceptable and embarrassing announcement of the International Law on Baroness, for Famagusta, for the region of Famagusta. At the same time in Cyprus organised irrationalists in the name allegedly of the mandatory vaccinations were attacking the Presidential Palace with more mania than yesterday in the Constitution and against a television station, the largest of Cyprus, the "SIGMA". And you know what the most amazing, the creepiest? On the eve of the anniversary of the invasion, the atrocity of the Turks, these people, underestimating the major national problem, went and got caught and beat up the old guard of the “SIGMA”, who in 1974 said it to you, and I am really moved - they were a cruiser and they still have a bullet from the Turkish invasion inside it. And they called him "fascist" and beat him. This is the anti-infectious movement that, unfortunately, you are largely accepting.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u71	What are you talking about, Mr. Loverdo? I mean, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u72	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u73	Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u74	Mercy, I'll say, Mr. Xanthi, at last! Mercy! Whatever the government does, you find it negative. You haven't even put a moment in dealing with the pandemic. Only to blame you know.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u75	Are you serious?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u76	Only to blame you know! What you are doing is not just at the expense of your party - that leaves me indifferent - but it is at the expense of Parliament and at the expense of our country. If the vaccinations don't go on and tomorrow, Mr. Xanthi, we have thousands of dead and full of ICUs, you will say "Why didn't you take your measures?" What measures can we take? I'm so sorry for your attitude. I was waiting today - and that is what I would expect from all of you - as a fist of the Greek Parliament to support the amendment brought by the government. That would be the national responsibility. Social and human accountability. Without vaccination, the country, like the whole world, is in danger. Today is not a Greek matter. Is McCron a fascist who imposes mandatory vaccinations? We have done so with the agreement of the Bioethics Committee and always respecting the Constitution. Besides, as you know, the constitutionality or not of the provisions is judged by the courts. And these will come to judge whether it is a constitutional provision, which it obviously is. But the courts will judge it. You won't judge either of me. The courts will judge it. And finally, we have to respect judicial decisions. Unfortunately, in Greece we have cultivated the climate of irrationalism for decades. We have these responsibilities too. In the New Democracy too, too, there have been sometimes excessive reactions. During the Identities period there were indeed some reactions from the New Democracy, which intensified irrationality. Most of all, however, in the last decade we have been through a very difficult country. Have you thought about what happened to the squares of the indignant? Who created Golden Dawn? This situation didn't create Golden Dawn? And tomorrow it is very likely that there will also be a new political pattern, a new partisan shape that seems incubated by irrationality and anti-invasiveness. This will be at the expense of democracy, it will be at the expense of the political system and, ultimately, of our society. That is why I would urge you to withdraw from the circumstances and support this amendment, so that we can all put together as a Parliament of the Greeks a signal to society that vaccination saves. Only by vaccination can we deal with this. We are not in favour of mandatory anything. We respect democracy and institutions more than any other party. And especially New Democracy and Kyriakos Mitsotakis have proved it on several occasions. And I was sorry to hear a phrase from the Parliamentary spokesman of Mera25 who said about "Government of Mr Mitsotakis S.A.". All right, I get over it, but it is disgraceful for Parliament itself to hear such expressions. What is most disturbing is that I see the Left, who wants to say that it is a progressive force, to be against the mandatoryity of vaccinations in certain categories of people, who put at risk the health of our fellow citizens. I don't understand that. And I don't understand what your proposal is. Because if you are against it, you must also bring in a specific counter-proposal, which, unfortunately, you did not bring. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u77	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Mr. Katrugalos from SYRIZA has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u78	Thank you very much, Madam President. My speech also has the question of political splitting and constitutionally problematic amendments. However, I must also refer to the bill, which, as we have already said, will be supported and which shows a very positive job which is being done at the Court of Auditors on the initiative of its judges and, in particular, the President of the Court. As a key feature, the Court of Auditors' activity has been extended to matters and to areas which have so far not been involved, such as the quality of the social state - law and the cooperation of the court with Parliament. And that is something I must point out. This does not mean that there are no problems with the administration of justice in Greece. On the other hand, the second report by the European Commission on the quality of the state of law in our country highlights the government's performance in relation to the functioning of justice, particularly in relation to the situation of judicial officers. I would also remind you that the European Union of Judges has denounced the government's refusal to include legal associations in the new Code legislature. Indeed, this union has made a reason for undermining the independence of judges and the rule of law in Greece. The issue of the amendment should not even be discussed. And we would not have discussed this if we were not before a huge government failure in the field of vaccination, not only in the general objective that Mr Mitsotakis had set himself, that we have 70% coverage of the population in June, but also in individual, more sensitive areas that have already emerged from previous speakers - particularly from Mr Xanthos - such as the vaccination deficit in the elderly. 30% over eighty years is invasive. In the nursing homes 20% is inconsistent. As the government usually does in the face of its own failure, it tries to shift responsibility to society and does so in a particularly splitting way. There is no doubt that vaccination is the basic tool for our society to obtain an immunity wall. But that must be compatible with freedoms and rights. On the contrary, this amendment is politically dangerous: firstly, because it is ineffective. Secondly, because it introduces divisive elements into society, which will be discriminatory many times in the eyes of apartheid among vaccinated and unvaccinated. And thirdly - and I will insist on this because of quality - it has important elements contrary to our Constitution and to international law. As you know, the right to health is enshrined in a number of international texts, Article 25 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, Article 12 of the United Nations Convention on Social Rights, Article 35 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights, the Council of Europe Convention on Human Rights and Biomedicine, and, of course, Article 21 of our Constitution. It is clear that the right to health does not mean a duty to be healthy. An intervention in matters of health may be carried out in principle only if the person concerned gives his or her free consent, and even after prior informed of the person concerned. However, since the aim of health protection is also a public interest objective, restrictions can be imposed on what I have mentioned. Thus, it is generally considered that while unconstitutional and opposing, in international law, universal compulsory vaccination may be introduced, an obligation to vacate certain sensitive groups may be introduced. Here the characteristic example is child vaccination, where we have decisions of the Council of State and of the European Court of Human Rights. But even where vaccination is exceptionally compulsory there is a corresponding obligation for the State to comply with this obligation to be compatible with the principle of proportionality and not to introduce unjustified discrimination. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy that you are giving us in support of irrationalism, obviously you do not know what you have voted on in the Council of Europe. I am reading you the basic passage from resolution 2361/2021, which I shall be tabling in the Minutes, namely paragraph 7.3.1. "Vaccine is not mandatory and no one is pressed politically, socially or otherwise vaccinated if they do not want it". In paragraph 7.3.2. it states: ‘No one is discriminated against in that they have not been vaccinated due to possible health risks or because they do not want to be vaccinated’. It is not only the Council of Europe, but the European Union also has this right legal view. When Malta attempted to ban entry into the country for those who have not been vaccinated, the Commission representative responsible for justice and equality in the rule of law stated - a statement I will also present in the Minutes - that 'any measure restricting freedom of movement must be proportionate and non-discriminatory. This is one of the main principles of the regulation on the European Digital Certificate COVID. We are concerned that these measures could give rise to discrimination against those who have not been fully vaccinated." The Prime Minister in a series of problematic statements does not respond to this self-evident obligation for a democracy and a rule of law to respect rights and freedoms. He was initially talking about 'prerogatives' of vaccinated people, ignoring that democracies do not mean privileges. Then he talked about 'freedom for those who deserve it', as if freedom were to be divided, as if some might have freedom and have no freedom for others. It is our constitutional order that there should indeed be limitations. Freedom, however, is the rule. And they can be treated differently vaccinated and unvaccinated, but only with regard to the need to protect public health and without this discrimination being punished, otherwise it is unconstitutional. The very conduct of the government is contradictory. What did he do in the case of fire extinguishers, in the case of EMAS? Those who had not been vaccinated transferred them to another agency, without limitation to their other rights. Now, instead, it reverses this principle and in an unconstitutional manner, because the principle of proportionality is being affected, it actually introduces punishable characteristics by depriving the wage-free in the public sector and, essentially, by leading to dismissal in the private sector. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS VITSAS, takes over the Presidential Chair.]] It is not something that we can tolerate, precisely because we must unite as a society to face the major health challenges and precisely because these challenges are intelligent, on the one hand, and on the other, how to get out of the pandemic crisis and, on the other, how to maintain democracy and our rights intact. Because some checks may be necessary at this stage of the health crisis. But the society that will emerge after the pandemic must not be a society of control. So we ask you to respect your obligations from the Constitution and international legality, respect the directions of the Council of Europe, which you yourself supported. And in view of these obligations, we call on you not to transfer to the citizens and society the responsibilities you have. Do not act contrary to the Constitution and democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u79	Thank you. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Mr. Ljupis from New Democracy has the floor, followed by the Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution, Mr. Villardos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u80	Mr President, the list we have is valid?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u81	It's true. Mr. Viliardos is a parliamentary representative. So he speaks whenever he thinks it's appropriate. The turn to know at least that I have in mind right now, is now Mr. Lippi, then Mr. Villardos. Logically, Mr. Plearis will go, then Mr. Cockys will go, then Mr. Dr. Dritsas will go. And then you will.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u82	Mr. President, when will the State Secretary speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u83	When the State Secretary asks, he will take the floor. That's what's known now. Everyone here after two years is experienced. That's not the point. Here, Mr. Lippi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me, Minister, to begin with Amendment 999, which introduces compulsory vaccination of all staff in elderly care units and all public, municipal and private health structures. The National Committee for Bioethics and Technology took a positive decision on this matter following a question from the Prime Minister. The protection of those who are hospitalized and hosted in such units is our undeniable obligation. Already in December 2020, when we supplied the first vaccines, the Prime Minister and the Ministry of Health laid the health for their own protection and health of the hospitals as a priority. Since then, the vaccination process has gone a long way, the effectiveness and safety of vaccines has been proven, and many information debates and solutions have been held even by the Prime Minister himself. Mandatory vaccination comes as a last resort but a necessary act to protect public health. It is not coercive, it is not made up of redundancies or of disciplinary action in the public sector. Already several European countries in Italy, France, the United Kingdom have introduced compulsory vaccination for categories of citizens. Let us not forget that the majority of citizens are in favour of vaccination. 60% of the adult population in our country has either been vaccinated or booked an appointment to be vaccinated. Seven months after the first vaccinations and with a new possible wave of pandemic before the gates, the vaccination of all but even more of those working in the field of health is an act of social responsibility. Of course, in a democracy there are always choices as there are consequences. Anyone who does not wish to be vaccinated has the opportunity to insist on his choice, but his choice should not harm his fellow people. Thus non-vaccinated workers in health establishments or care of the elderly or AMEs will not be able to provide work and will not be paid correspondingly. Of course, I believe that in more than a month's time and the few remaining health workers of the public health system will be vaccinated with at least one vaccine dose and the suspension of work will not have to be applied. By 1 September, those who are in doubt will be vaccinated by closing their ears in the crowd of irresponsible and non-scientific information, which reasonably raises doubts about the vaccines to our fellow citizens. To all those who remain hesitant about vaccines we must clearly send out the message that we owe ourselves, our loved ones, but also all our fellow people, to take advantage of the huge leap of the scientific community, which has become reality with these vaccines. Mass vaccination is the only way to recover our lives, our everyday lives, our professional action, and above all to defeat the fear that has prevailed our lives over the last two years. I am closing for the amendment with an appeal to all Greek women and Greeks to trust the global scientific and medical community and to select vaccination. Ladies and gentlemen, in today's bill, the government and the Ministry of Justice are moving on to another legislative initiative on best institutional immunity and the functioning of judicial authority. The new organic law of the Court of Auditors is necessary in order to have a codification for the uniform and overall regulation of all the issues relating to its organisation, operation and control powers. The aim is, among other things, to address any conflicting views and provisions which give rise to contradictions and confusion in their implementation. The recent legal guidelines of the Court of Auditors, the Court of Justice of the European Union and the EDPS are incorporated and any legislative gaps identified are covered. Two new sections are set up within the Court of Auditors and the members' organic positions are increased so that they can meet the increased requirements resulting from the pre-contractual audit related to the Recovery Fund. In order to meet the needs for the efficient functioning of the Court of Auditors, work may also be carried out on external partners. The cooperation between the Court of Auditors and the Greek Parliament is being improved by making use of the practices of other European countries, such as Portugal. All the thematic audit reports and studies shall be forwarded to the House and presented to the committee responsible. It extends to bodies other than public services such as credit institutions, the obligation to provide the Court of Auditors with any information necessary with respect to the protection of sensitive personal data. Very important and in line with Article 20(2) of the Constitution the adoption of the previous hearing of the audited party and the possibility of defending the latter before sanctions are imposed on him. Intensify the digitisation and use of technology by introducing the Control Informatics System. Acceleration is achieved with the predicted digital checks that allow for a rapid examination of a large number of transactions. The amendment with number 998, tabled in connection with the speeding up of the procedure for pension cases before the Court of Auditors, is also very important. The principle of fair trial requires the proper completion of pension benefits. The long delays, observed up to now, are dealt with by the proposed provision, which allows for more assistance or means to be called into question in connection with similar matters. Finally, with the amendment of the Ministry of Rural Development, the government's commitment to support farmers, which were affected by the impeccable ices of February to April, is being implemented. An advance of 40% of the compensation to be paid to producers is to be provided directly by the end of October. In fact, per parcel may be compensated for up to 100% of the insured value of production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u85	Thank you. The parliamentary representative of the Greek Solution Mr. Villardos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u86	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ministers, the rapporteur of the Greek Solution, Mr Hetas, was detailed in the bill, so we will be confined to the powers of the Court of Auditors in Article 2 of this and in accordance with Article 98 of the Constitution, in the work we have met and analysed, which concerned the following: First, the preparation of a report on the State's balance sheet and balance sheet, so far, for the years 2017 and 2018, while it has been presented in 2019, but has not yet been ratified. Why, really? Secondly, the reports on pension plans and, in particular, on the actuarial study of insurance. And thirdly, the various conventions that have been signed, whether they have the reports themselves or the reports themselves. Starting with the first, in the annex to the reports on the report we have assessed the work of the Court of Auditors, which seems to be not the case for the government. This is substantiated by the fact that the Court of Auditors only has in the state's last statement and balance sheet, of which eighteen remarks were made, which both perforated but not prevented the Government from ratifying them. If, however, this were to happen to a company, if it presented a perforated accounts and balance sheet to its board by approving it in spite of the observations, those responsible would be fired if they were not brought to prison. Of course, no company could appear and approve a negative net position of EUR 217 billion, which means that if Greece sells what it has and does not have, its military equipment, roads, ports and so on, it will still owe EUR 317 billion. Fortunately, however, this is not the case, but simply the balance sheet of the state approved by the government is for garbage. In relation to the second, with pensions, it is enough to read the report of the Court of Auditors and the opinion of the Commissioner of State, Mr Nikitakis, in relation to the proportionate study, which supported the most recent insurance bill with Law 4670/2020 with the partial reform of the constitutional insurance of SYRIZA. In this respect, without having solved the issue for both, there are major unconstitutional here, so the Court of Auditors has also done its job properly, but without any attention being paid to it. Finally, in relation to the control of contracts under Article 341 of Law No 4700/2020, the non-controlling of the feasibility of the contracts was adopted, but only legality. It is certainly totally unacceptable, but it is totally unacceptable for a debt colony that sells everything, recalling the scandalous concession contract of the fourteen airports at the 'FRAFORT', the recent subsidy of its profitability - not compensation, but a subsidy for its profitability - with EUR 177 million, the concession of the PPA and the PATH where the workers lodged objections to the Court of Auditors, the sale of TRAINOSE to the Italians of TRAINOSE for 45 million with a dowry of 50 million subsidies a year for fifteen years, that is, 750 million, the colonial roads contracts and so on. Of this, however, it is clear how important the role of the Court of Auditors is, but also why it has been effectively neutralised by the foreign forces of the robbery and economic occupation of our country, without underestimating the domestic oligarchy, which certainly does not just take the crumbs. As far as the reforms of the current draft law are concerned, in accordance with the communication from the Ministry of Justice, which we will submit to the minutes later, their purpose is the best division of responsibility, whereas, in fact, the issue is the diffusion of responsibility, since it is not easy to institutionalise the irresponsibility for the members of the Court of Auditors, such as for banks, which have special protection for their non-executable intervention. Recruitment of the Court of Auditors does not, however, see in this Act or in the report of the General Accounting Office of the State, despite the fact that until recently, at least, we heard there were many pension trials pending and pending. It therefore makes no sense to deal with the reform of digitisation, which is being promoted everywhere by the government, but not by the awarding of outstanding pensions, nor with the references to the use of artificial intelligence software in Article 107, since it seems that its contribution is not decisive. Common sense is needed, not artificial intelligence. We will now continue with the statement by the Minister of Development, known for populism and its great cynicism, with the most recent resolution of the shameful law on cannabis. We'll repeat this all the time. He didn't even hesitate to dismiss himself with his known apologies. The Minister, as we will testify in the Minutes, compared the vaccine-negatives with those who were and are against the memoirs, as well as 62% of the citizens who voted in favour of 'no' in the 2015 referendum, which SYRIZA anti-constitutionally reversed, murdering the Greeks' last hope. He convinced them, in other words, that there was no alternative. Has this government not yet understood the damage it has caused to our country, the crimes of overcompensation of the Memorandums and the PSI? Isn't she ashamed to make such comparisons? Can there be even one Greek, today, who argues that the memorials were positive? Aren't we not enough to substantiate the previous day simply by comparing the evolution of Israel's GDP with that of Greece, namely that Israel's GDP, which is not a member of the European Union, while it is in a much more difficult geopolitical position, in 2008 it was USD 216 billion and Greece at that time, while in 2020 Israel's $402 billion and Greece only $ 189 billion, to be precise, that while we lost 167 billion of GDP, Israel won 186 billion dollars, at the same time, how has we been even surpassed in the primary sector, when almost 50% of its extent is completely unbearable? By now making a small historical regression, especially with regard to public debt before 2009, there are two points that should be of interest to us. Firstly, in 1988, its share of GDP was about 60% from around 30% in the early 1980s. It increased during the period of national unity in 1988-89 to 80%, and was launched to 15% from 1989 to 1993 in terms of dollar. Secondly, its slight decline in GDP after 2006 was due to the revision of data using the creative accounting method, which increased our GDP by 9.6%. In this way, the public debt has been reduced in terms of GDP artificially, as well as the budget deficit, resulting in Greece increasing public spending, as well as in an additional EUR 70 billion borrowing. The main responsibility for this event is, of course, with the New Democracy and its then Minister for Finance, who, instead of wisely managing the economy, tried to artificially increase GDP by 25% by including the black economy in 2006. In the end, however, the European Union has rejected it to a certain extent, but the increase of 9.6% is returning to it. Furthermore, the above actions of the New Democracy, which are doing almost exactly the same today, were the ones that allowed the rapid rise of recruitment to the public, which during the Karamanlis rule period from 2004 to 2009 amounted to eighty-six thousand four hundred forty-three additional people in the public sector, as we will be tabling in the Minutes. It was, therefore, a huge number, which combined with the waste of public resources and political corruption, of course, led to the launch of annual budget deficits, so debt. In particular, the public debt from 215.4 billion, in 2005, went to 108.5% of GDP, increased to 226.2 billion in 2006, but in terms of GDP it fell to 105.7%, as we will deposit in the Minutes, as GDP rose from EUR 198 billion to EUR 214 billion with the Horseboof rug, as it is called, while the deficit fell, from 5.7% in 2005, to 3.8% in 2006. This facilitated the increase in recruitment in the clientele, as well as the rapid increase in state spending from 48.6 billion in 2005 to 60 billion in 2008, when Greece followed the explosive growth in deficits and overcharges. This, together with the launching of the current account deficits, which was also facilitated by the artificial growth of GDP, led our country to the limits of its capacity in 2009, where, unfortunately, the government of the "liquids" was elected, which, either by nonsense or by endlessism, gave Greece the graceful shot. Immediately thereafter, despite the fact that Greece was able to solve the problem, firstly, either by the unilateral default of payments to its foreign bond holders who were in national law 90% and secondly, or by the debt service by its own means, in order not to jeopardise geopolitically, it followed the crime of the PSI through the coup d'état of New Democracy and PASOK. Here, no one needs to know financially to understand that there was no reason for just 51.3 billion euros, as we will testify in the Minutes, for Greece to accept English law, for it to mortgage its entire public property, as well as for it to sacrifice its national sovereignty. As if not all of this were enough, the crime was completed by the 2015 government, which not only illegally refused to implement the referendum, betraying both its ideology and those who voted for it, but much worse it signed with the other two parties of the troika interior the third and worst memorial. Do we really need knowledge of economics to understand that Greece, which was driven to the IMF and to the Memorandums with a public debt of 125% of its GDP with a private red at about 10%, with healthy banks, with private incomes by far higher and so on, is today in a better position, with a public debt of 205% of its GDP, with government loans of over 230% of GDP, with external debt of over 500 billion dollars, with private reds over 150% of GDP, with private incomes of 50% lower, with the productive tissue being destroyed and so on? On the other hand, is it not outrageous to see that New Democracy, supported by PASOK and SYRIZA - we have seen it many times - is doing the same again today? That only in the two years that he rules wasted 41 billion euros on loan, among other things, because of the incredible mismanagement of the pandemic? That the state, like then, has increased by 100 thousand since 2014, while still planning thirty-five thousand recruitments? That it gives money to the Germans, such as the EUR 177 million to the 'FRAPORT' and the EUR 130 million to the 'Athens International Airport', which the Germans are also involved? What right is he doing all this with? Honestly, I am sorry to say this, and I am very concerned, but, unfortunately, it is the truth - this government, in addition to irresponsiblely promoting the national division, will not only sell the public property and will not only sell the private property, dismantling the Greeks from their homes, such as our seven hundred thousand young people in the past from their homes, and will not only turn the Greeks into cheap impoverished slaves in Germany and will not only complete the change of ownership status of Greece, but will destroy everything and even unregulated, even surrendering national sovereignty to the Turks. It is, moreover, the only government, which, while driving the country from bad to worse - in relation to pandemic - triumphantly, triumphantly triumphs with impressive, truly, enthusiastic, presenting its incredible failures, as supposedly successes, with subsidised media support, of course. Obviously, because, he sees us as fools all Greeks, believing that he will not react to the robbery, endlessness, fascism, which gradually imposes on the pretext of vaccination, the fresco of everything and its authoritarianism. Finally, we warn the government not to think of a new lockdown in September. To stop splitting Greeks and to stop requiring certificates of vaccination this time. It is shameful to use in such an inconsistent manner the hundred and fifty eight seats that the people gave her to the elections, believing that she would do something right for their homeland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u87	Thank you. Mr Athanasios Ploris, Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u88	Ladies and gentlemen, I would take the floor later, but, indeed, I was surprised to hear from colleagues from the SYRIZA and especially from the part they are trying, in fact, to give a constitutional standpoint, so that there can be arguments, that the amendment that comes from the Ministry of Health is unconstitutional. And what is happening is quite unfair to the Minister of Justice and the Deputy Minister of Justice, because this bill is a series of bills that have come from the Ministry of Justice, which aim to improve the overall piece of justice, and in particular, to define the regulations that have to do with the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u89	Did we get the amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u90	I didn't say about you, Mr. Ragosi. I am referring, however, to the fact that the debate will go there as well as a bill which has the characteristics of upgrading, in fact, of the Court of Auditors, on the part of the information on budgetary and pension issues for the House, as well as on the part that all the arrangements, which most parties find in a single text, are actually a bill which - I am not referring to the opposition, Mr Ragoshis - cannot, in fact, develop it as much as we want, because just here, anti-government is coming and raises the issue of unconstitutionality from the Step in this House, but it does not dare to put it to discussion. And I will tell you what is happening now and where you are all mistaken by SYRIZA Members. On the one hand, you have to decide what you want. Do you think there should be mandatory vaccination, and if so, on what terms? Why are you saying, yes, we're in favour of this, the Chief of Officership, Alexis Tsipras, said this from this step. It goes without saying - he said - about the medical staff, and now that he's coming, he's saying, no. With what argument? That the requirement should not be linked to consequences, which can in the way of work for the time that no one would have been vaccinated. Then tell us, what do you mean when you say mandatory? Let's go first of all to see the amendment as to whether or not it is constitutionally tolerable, and that's not what we in the theory are going to do, I heard Mr Katrugalo here. However, most of these issues have been decided, ladies and gentlemen, and have also been judged in the part of the European Court of Human Rights and in the Council of State. And that is why the Greek Solution has not dared to put a question of constitutionality, as it had previously put on the European certificate. We have two goods. On the one hand, it is the good that has to do with the right to self-determination and any medical practice must be in accordance with the consent of the person accepting the medical act and, on the other hand, there is the right to public health. Indeed, if vaccination, like any other medical practice, only concerned the individual's health and did not mean that he would become a factor in communicating disease to third parties, there would be no talk at all of it, although it would have to be done either. So what has the Council of State told us? That in this weighting, first of all, we need to make something clear. You can't oblige someone to make a vaccine in the sense of natural coercion. There's always the right to say I don't want to accept the medical act. But can you take measures that are not of a punishable nature, but, in essence, protect third parties, which will receive negative consequences, due to the choice of the individual not to be vaccinated? Sure. Who's telling us that? We are told by the Council of State in Resolution 2387/2020, which concerned no registration of children at nurseries, because their parents did not want to be vaccinated. And it was right that the Council of State came and, of course, it was the right for parents not to inoculate their children, but to the extent that public health is protected, the municipalities were right not to report to children's stations. And the Council of State comes and says, yes, I am afraid we will have to look at the cases where there will be consequences for non-vaccination due to the negative consequences that may exist in public health and third parties. Apart from the Council of State, however, and I will not go into the suspension case for Coreper, it has also been decided in the European Court of Human Rights. In the case of Vardiska v. Czechoslovakia, for example, vaccination - again for children's vaccinations, Decision 8-4-2021 - it was considered that children should not rightly be enrolled, as in a series of decisions, Buffa v. San Marino, Jehovah v. Russia, a case against Ukraine, where it was found that the mandatory vaccinations of personal life are not in breach and whether there are consequences which are made in the interests of public health. We must therefore agree that there may be a framework which, in specific categories, obliges vaccination to be carried out, not in the sense of natural coercive, but in the sense that he, who is vaccinated, cannot be in this position, because he may become a danger of transmitting the disease or of having to accept restrictions on his movement. What the Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution told us, or implied by SYRIZA, is that they are of a fascist type, are those which have been approved by the Council of State and have been approved by the European Court of Human Rights. So let's go to this amendment. Not speaking theoretically what the charges are. He's coming over here and he's putting the least of it that anyone could imagine. Health, personnel in the National Health System, personnel in structures dealing with rehabilitation centres, disabled persons, people who are chronic sufferers and people who provide services to nursing homes. It's the lowest degree there is. And because, ladies and gentlemen, words cannot be theoretical, they must be practical, we come and say, we have a tracheotized eighty-year-old man who has been vaccinated and is in a rehabilitation centre or is in a hospital ID. And the vaccinated ones are stuck. But if someone who's eighty years old is stuck with tracheostomy, who's much more likely to get stuck by someone who's invasive, he's gonna die. Does he have the right to provide him with the service, that was vaccinated or does he not have that right? And if we can't convince this particular man, because this weighting has to be done by the government - I can't convince Mr. Polakis who is and you're in, I can't convince him - we have the right to tell him that while you're in your choice not to be inoculated, you won't be able to provide the service to a tracheotic, because if he's stuck with COVID -19, he'll die? I have the opportunity to tell the man who has our grandparents or fathers or our grandparents or mothers in nursing homes and should be in constant contact with them that to provide this service to a man who is eighty, eighty-five, ninety-year-old, who if he sticks COVID -19, will die, should you be vaccinated? You say something that sounds good: go elsewhere. Tell us - this would be a theoretical conversation - if the government comes later and tells us that he wants to look at other charges, that is, the nurse where he's going? No, come here and say specific. You think he's going to another service. Where's the doctor going? Will the doctor, who's in the ICU, do an administrative service? The nurse? Where's the nursing home employee going? We come and say in a clear way, and that is precisely the freedom of choice, which exists, and in no sense penalises, but in the sense that in the choice you have made, because it has consequences for third parties, for as long as you are not vaccinated, you will not provide the service. And since you don't provide the service, you won't be paid. In the public sector, it will automatically be lifted once you are vaccinated or as soon as these conditions cease to exist. That is why you see that the amendment itself gives a review. It is one of the few cases, which refers to a specific period of time that is being reviewed, because we are moving on the basis of the phenomenon. In the private sector, obviously, you won't be able to go to Grandpa without being vaccinated and in danger of killing him. You won't be in the ITH. You won't be able to contact people who are in a fragile state. Because all you have seen now is addressed to people who are in a fragile situation. At some point they don't have constitutional rights? The right to life don't they have it? The right of their own choice, which will give him the service to have done what is laid down in health, do they not have it? Apparently they do. That is why this amendment is absolutely proportionate, as the Bioethics Committee requires. The Committee on Constitutional Rights of the Athens Bar Association, however, in a very interesting debate that has taken place - and I quote most of the decisions from there - has concluded that, yes, there are procedures in which there can be compulsory procedure, not in the sense of natural coercion, but in the sense that no one can be present for a certain period of time. Find out where he's talking about redundancies. You say it again. You like it. Tell us. Anyone who comes up here to say: 'Lords, you are talking about redundancies'. We are talking about job suspension, which, of course, will not be paid, because you do not provide the service. And you don't provide the service, because you have chosen not to do what you should not do for your own health - which you have the right to dispense with - but for the health of third parties. However, I did not hear all that from the constitutionalist Mr Katrugalo, who was very respectful to him. I didn't hear it from Mr. Blonde. You must finally come here and say in particular, when your Chief of this Stepma said that it is self-evident that the mandatory medical and nursing staff, what he meant and what the consequences of the non-decision, would be. Because when you are in favour of compulsoryity, as you say, but not in favour of this data, you should say what it is. And don't say a place transfer. A place transfer may exist in many other words. But when you talk about the nursing staff, when you talk about private clinics, which will have certain individuals, who are doctors and nurses, about specific people in the National Health System, doctors and nurses in the ICU, what are you going to do? There, obviously, the positions must be covered, for the time that the other person will not wish to be vaccinated and will not be able to provide services from other people. In other categories, where this possibility exists - here is the ratio that the Council of State and the Constitution tell us - can be done. As you can see, in the fire department he says, yes, he can't be at EMAS, but he's going to be in another position. In medical medicine, however, these possibilities do not exist. The one who works in a nursing home doesn't exist. The one who works at a rehabilitation centre doesn't exist. So, ladies and gentlemen, if you want to give a clear signal that you do not 'close the eye' to those who come to press on or irrational issues, which have to do with the anti-invasive movement - that they are supposed to put a chip on us, they will change our DNA - or some logic, because not all people - all those who went to vaccinate surely said that there are rare complications in these rare complications, we also had a concern - in this world, so you must speak clearly. And we speak clearly when we come and say 'Get all of you to be vaccinated'. We do not speak clearly when people have the attitude of 'let others do it' - Paulakis is this attitude - and I re-examine it in September. I mean, let the others go, and I'm looking at it again. It is the "packs" of this attitude. So we're saying we're going to be vaccinated. Those who do not want for any reason, yes, will have consequences, not in the sense of punishing, but in the sense that you yourself are dangerous to third parties who do not want to accept these consequences. Therefore, you must review your position and finally speak clearly once. Are you in favour of vaccination? You are. Are you in favour of mandatory vaccination? Answer it. If you're in favour of mandatory vaccination, what does it mean to someone who's not vaccinated and who's in the ICU or who's a nurse? Tell us specifically what it means. We are therefore voting in favour of the Minister of Justice's bill, we are voting in favour of this amendment that everyone must vote on. I shall conclude with an issue that concerns me personally, Mr President. I was attacked online yesterday, unfortunately. My fellow Member has 'drawn it down', but also inside and sites as a whole have removed it. They tried to connect me to a Tweet, which I have never done, where I refer to exaltingly, insultingly and slanderingly to Giannis Antetokubo. Where are they trying? They are attempting a tweet that has never been made, which is abusive, to connect it to any political positions I may have concerning the law on citizenship of Mr Ragosi that we voted against. To be judged, ladies and gentlemen, for what we are talking about. And what we're talking about, getting into a confrontation. But to come to build a tweet to date - because SYRIZA's colleague withdrew it, most of the means - says that 'we are not convinced. We believe that it was at some point that Ploris did, when it seems from everywhere that it is fake, does not honour political controversy. We will not account to anyone when we will be proud if a Greek comes and has a success. The fact that we may disagree on how to acquire citizenship and what the years will be, and whether it will be by examination, does not mean that we do not respect every person who has Greek citizenship. Because once someone gets Greek citizenship, it's Greek. Anyone trying through this piece to have a political advantage is basically the one who is ready to sell everything for the political benefit. A man who wears the narcotic, who goes to the Greek Army, who respects the Greek flag and says "I don't sign on it" and burns it, makes us proud and we cry. Now, account when we will be moved, when we will be proud of the Greeks and what political attitudes we will have about how citizenship will be built, whether or not we will not give it. But even if you want to give him, don't make false Tweets. Come with controversy to what each one of us has said. I hope that none of you, ladies and gentlemen, will find themselves in my position - which we may be fully opposed to - must demonstrate that he is not an elephant in the fact that he has not written and has not described a man as slandering and excitement. That should be condemned by everyone and let them say "You're a racist, you're anything. Your positions are those." But judging my positions politically and not judging by what some people made at dawn and pulled it out like Tweet after the Bucks and Yannis Antetokunbo won the championship, so that I could be slandered and slandered not at what I said, but at what they themselves built and wanted to charge me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u91	Mr. Kockas has the floor from SYRIZA, followed by Dr. Dritsas from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the lion's share of today is stealing from the Ministry of Health's amendment. It is an amendment which, of course, has been tabled by the Government and not by the Qualified Opposition. But a few words, so that we don't blame the Justice Ministry bill. Our rapporteur has developed it. I'm sure he's in a positive direction. It codifies all existing legislation governing the operation of the Court of Auditors. However, the same is not the case with the amendment. At a time when our national issues are at a very critical time and there is a need for the development of a national strategy with a wide consensus and a national consensus, an amendment is coming which is certainly the only one that divides. It is an amendment which leads to and strengthens social automation. Unfortunately - I hope not to be confirmed - because of the improper policy of the Government on vaccination - I hope, incidentally, that the national vaccination campaign is now a joke to blame you from the Government for not supporting it - two theories will be developed and developed. I repeat, I hope I will not be confirmed. The first relates to universal compulsory vaccination and the other to irresponsible and unjustified denial of vaccination. Both of these theories are based on a word, in a feeling: In fear. From this point of view, the Step I have said many times, can say what it wants. Unfortunately, there have been dangerous rapings. How many times have we heard about it? Here and now, let's get it over with. "Are you in favour of or against compulsoryity? Yes or no? Place yourself.’ The dilemma ‘embolium or quarantine’. No, gentlemen of the government, we are in favour of legality first. Before we come to the wording of this dilemma, 'voluntary embolism or quarantine', we have to consider whether other things have been done in time for the Qualified Opposition. What he has proposed requires the law itself. So timely and effective measures have been taken to combat misinformation and reluctance with regard to COVID-19 vaccines? Yes or no? And what are these? Has transparent information been distributed on the safety and possible side effects of vaccines in cooperation with regulation on social media platforms to prevent the spread of misinformation? Yes or no, and what was the result? Has the government collaborated with non-governmental organisations or other local initiatives to approach specific social groups? Yes or no, and what were the results? Has the Government worked with local communities to develop and implement adapted strategies to support vaccine recruitment? Yes or no, and what was the result? When you answer these questions and present to the Greek people the results of all these actions, which you had to take all this time, then only then can this dilemma "be in favour of or against compulsoryity". And then we say that we are in favour of legality, that the defence of public health should not affect the core of other individual rights. Is there really respect for human value with such amendments? Ladies and gentlemen, I think the dilemmas you put in Greek society are above all splitting. You failed the vaccination campaign. Now what are you doing? You are addressing the opposition and you say that it is irresponsible when your duty is, the state's duty is first to deplete all means, first to deplete the persuasiveness and then come as it comes today and put such dilemmas, blackmail. And a few words on the amendment by the Ministry of Rural Development. The main objective is the universal demand of the people in the primary sector. We have proved that whatever good goes on, we are here and we support it. Continue the attempted change of regulation since 16 December 2018, the fair change in the regulation for farmers and farmers, and we will be here to support it. It's been two years. Your predecessor completely abandoned the idea of changing the regulation. Two years have passed, and at the moment farmers almost every week throughout Greece are hit by either floods or hails. I am sure this amendment will heal some wounds and it is not just the frost. It's the hail. However, it is a question of setting up a strategy with a specific plan. This plan only has one word. Move quickly to change the regulation, otherwise you will come back soon to bring such amendments that you will be trying to heal the wounds of hundreds of thousands of farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr. Red. Mr Dritsas has the floor from SYRIZA on the basis of the programme, followed by Mr Economou from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u94	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Plory, I see that you want to leave, but you really are the favourite class of lawyers and even of the fighting lawyers you are used to defending with the same skill and ability and the perpetrator, the accused of a crime, as defender and alternatively the victim, as political lawsuit. Others call this a sample of professionalism and competence. I doubt it. You reminded me of this very much in your position. You questioned Giorgos Katrugalo in terms of the constitutional dimension. You have not dared to question Andreas Xanthos or Marilissa Xeno-Yannakopoulos in terms of health and work issues. Top positions, in my opinion, of the quality of the opposition to find solutions to the huge problem of pandemic in order to save human lives. And Karugalos and Mariannakopoulou and Andreas Xanthos and all the representatives of SYRIZA are concerned about this: to control the pandemic and reduce the deaths and disabilities of the coronary. That's all we care about. And it is worth wondering that a government which, while clearly failing its objectives, refuses to put into discussion the reasons why it was unable to achieve the objectives. In this regard, the objective of vaccination, as she herself had announced. It really has a proven lack of efficiency. And I'm not saying that to judge whether it's a good government or not. I'm saying that to save people's lives. He refuses to tell us why we have left behind in the process of achieving the targets which she had set for the size of vaccinations. Is that a little bit? Is that a responsibility? Is that serious? And instead of that, in the face of this obvious failure, it comes up with an amendment to punish people. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of Parliament, Mr. Epostolos ABDELAS takes over]] Yesterday on a television show late in the evening, the former Member, partner, colleague and former Minister, Professor George Stathakis said something that I think says everything. You're either inoculated or fired. And do not tell us that they are not made redundant with this amendment. They are fired temporarily and are left without a way for these people to live. And you say with the greatest ease that there are no alternatives in these areas. Without looking for them. You say this with the "reliability" of the good lawyer who defends both the victim and the perpetrator. In that direction, I have a thought. Maybe I'm talking nonsense. We need to understand every charge because it hasn't been vaccinated. The government doesn't know. The state doesn't know. Another huge deficit. A charge is the ones not being vaccinated? The irresponsible "sprayed"? Too many accusations. Does the Ministry know them? Has he told us? Has he categorized us? Has he drafted a tactical and strategy on how to get each of these categories to intervene positively and encourage them, solve problems, give them answers and bring them to the vaccination office? Oh, no. And what does it bring? 'You're fired.' Is that a serious government? Well, you're either inoculated or fired. That's all. On the basis of this view, Giorgos Katrugalos' reference to the European Council under the terms and conditions of compulsory vaccination as a last resort, after all the stages of persuasion have been taken. The European Committee on Bioethics itself. One by one. The government's living in Azerbaijan. I don't understand. Aren't you ministers of a Member State of the European Union? Are you ignoring this? What else do you need, ladies and gentlemen, from the example of Mykonos? I don't know if the Minister can confirm that. They say that over 90% of local society, residents and employees, were vaccinated. You'll tell me a small number in front of the two hundred thousand who's right now with the tourists. Sure. At the same time you say that the country with the measures you have taken is fortified and suddenly comes to Mykonos and it erupts a health crisis that forces you to listen to the island in Lockdown. And now you're talking about removing the local lockdown. What criteria will you have to lift the lockdown? What exactly will you have achieved in the prerequisites for Mykonos to be healthly safe in order to get to the desired point of getting this tourist island back to normality and to be this model for all the islands, for all the destinations, for everything? Is that a catastrophic criticism and opposition that SYRIZA is doing? Is that irresponsible? Is it something to say or is it, as some New Democracy colleagues have said, snipering the irrational anti-vaccinators? Or is it responsible for political criticism to save people and to face the pandemic? I shall conclude, Mr President. It's not the government's choice. It's a systemic choice. He chooses - I stress the word chooses - to run behind the facts so that he does not get the responsibility to choose costs where he needs and when he has to for public health and for the public space in general and to leave things with the least possible consequences when, as soon as the pandemic ends, the pandemic has not changed anything in this place. Not to strengthen public health or public education, not to have been affected by the private sector at all. This is the government's choice. He chooses to run behind events and not to plan, because then he will assume responsibility for deep sections. It can't be done otherwise. So this structural responsibility of the government is all the substance. Finally, either listen to the opposition and not just SYRIZA, or go out in front of the Greek people and honestly tell the reality. Take responsibility. Because, normally, both on the issue of health and on the question of education, you should have given up the ministers and perhaps the government had left after insisting on hearing no one, neither society nor opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr. Dritsa. Good evening to you and me. I will give the floor to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr. Spilio Lebanon, for an amendment he has tabled. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to speed up so that we do not follow what Mr Dritsa said and we all resign and I do not have time to go through the amendment on the frost. I would like to say, Mr President, if I may, that I am sorry that I too am bringing an amendment and leaving the subject of the very important draft law which codifies and consolidates the case law of the Court of Auditors, but it is indeed the amendment that we are bringing from the Ministry of Rural Development and Food very, very critically for the entire Greek region. We are therefore called today on to vote on this amendment which shows the determination, but also the implicitness with which our Government and the Ministry of Rural Development and Food have worked all this time and gives substantial, immediate solutions - and I am glad that Mr Kokalis has accepted this a moment ago - even the most unforeseeable problems with which our farmers are now facing, such as the glacier which has hit our country repeatedly since February to April this year. The government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis has shown that it is next to farmers constantly and uninterruptedly despite the difficult budgets that the state faces. On 16 June we announced the roadmap for compensation. Today, one month later, we are voting on this legislation to act on our commitment that no Greek agricultural family will remain unprotected against the effects of climate change. That is why we provide for the possibility of direct advance payments of up to 40% of the compensation that each beneficiary producer is entitled to receive. We have worked hard to be consistent in our commitments and the direction in which the ELGA is already working is the advances to start being given immediately after the vote on the amendment, and to complete the payment of the total compensation as soon as possible. At the same time, we decided to pay compensation, as we had announced, even for the damages to crops which were in pre-anthic stage by way of derogation from the provisions laid down. We also provide for the possibility for our producers to receive 100% of the insured value, as defined and calculated by the ELGA. These losses are part of a special ad hoc programme of State financial aid, so that this category of producers will not only be compensated, but will also receive an advance of up to 40%. Mr. Kokalis said before that our government has done nothing to change the ELGA regulation. The opposite happens. We're "full engines" just to do something that didn't happen in SYRIZA years, it only happened in words and something that really has to be done and that's where it's right. I'm saying some evidence to be recorded. Damages commensurate with that of the '21 package, which we are discussing today, had taken place in 2003. Over sixty eight thousand damage statements were submitted to ELGA and were declared as damaged over two hundred and twenty - five thousand agricultural parcels of over three hundred thousand acres. Since the beginning of 1921, ninety-eight thousand damage statements have been submitted with three hundred sixty thousand parcels to be assessed. The annual term declared for estimating parcels over the last decade does not go through the two hundred and twenty thousand, so today in six months, you will understand to what extent we have been more than in all previous years. That is indeed the result of climate change, and that is what we are working on. We have asked the World Bank to hand over its study in the next few months, so that we can start this public dialogue after the work we have done to make these changes to ELGA, and I hope that we can find you all in agreement so that we can implement what is absolutely necessary. So in support of this titanium work carried out by the ELGA staff - and I would like from the Stepping of the House to thank all of its officials and of course the ELGA's leadership for their incredible work - we define a specific employment framework with this amendment and overtime for the assessments made. The purpose of these provisions is to enable ELGA to provide not only advances, but also total allowances as soon as possible. At the same time as this amendment in specific cases described in detail - and I will not take the time to read it now - we are increasing the ceiling of EUR 70,000 per beneficiary of compensation up to three times, i.e. EUR 210,000 per insured producer, I repeat despite the very difficult financial framework in which we are moving. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that climate change is confronting us with a number of extraordinary phenomena that directly affect the rural economy as a whole. Our debt, the state, is to ensure, to the extent that these country's financial possibilities allow, income to the fullest extent possible of our farmers. This debt is being done conscientiously, and I believe that conscientious Members of this Parliament are on all sides. It is precisely in this sense that, in order to show all the sides of this House that we believe in the rural economy as a key lever for the development of the overall national economy, it is obvious that we are calling for the vote by all of us and our colleagues and colleagues in this amendment, precisely to show that in the matter of aid not only of agricultural income, but in the whole of the rural economy, party strugglings are being left, ideological differences are being left and we are all counting behind this change in our productive model so that the Greek region can breathe and lead the growth lever to the growth of the Greek rural economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u97	Thank you too, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u98	Mr President, I would like the floor for the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u99	I will give the Minister for Justice the floor to approve and accept the amendment and then to you. Here, Mr. Chiara, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u100	I think, ladies and gentlemen, that both with the position of the Minister for Rural Development and waiting for the Deputy Minister for Health, all the amendments relating to the bill under discussion are actually being presented. You realize that they are accepted in advance. And I would like to present to the House the legislative improvements, just as most Members have made, so that they will be aware and aware of the continuation of the debate. Thank you very much. [[At this point the Minister for Justice, Mr Constantine Tsiaras, presents for the Minutes the above-mentioned legislative improvements, which are as follows:]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Let the pages in. 224-225
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u101	Thank you very much, Minister. The Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution, Mr. Villardos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u102	Thank you very much, Mr President. According to what we know your government has given you EUR 41 billion in total in 2020 and 2021 for the pandemic, of course with credit. You know very well that the primary sector in our programme is central, as we have devoted a very large part of our programme to the primary sector. According to the medium-term pandemic, EUR 113 million is therefore allocated to the primary sector in 2020 and EUR 70 million in 2021. In total, therefore, only EUR 183 million. Has something changed? Have you changed something in the bill and we haven't figured it out? That is my question and I ask you to answer me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u103	Thank you very much, Mr. Villardo. Mr Levane, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u104	Dear Mr Villardo, your party has indeed devoted a large part of its programme to the rural economy, and that is very positive and I would also like to stress it here to be registered. The medium-term data is exactly what you described, and that is why I said three times in my position before that we have this tough financial framework in which we are moving. In order to address the problems not of weather and climate change, but of the effects of COVID, in addition to this money, which has been provided for in the budget, there have been aid of EUR 470 million in total and through the repayable advances to support rural income. So, yes, these are the amounts in the medium term. However, the sum of money we have given to support agricultural income, which has been affected by the impact of the coronary, amounts to a multitude of what you have mentioned.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Minister. The Deputy Minister for Health Mr. Vassilis Kontozamanis is called in Stepma. A little attention, because it will be mentioned in Amendment 999/84. Mr. Contozamani, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, a year and a half since our pandemic hit us at the door, the country has made a titanic effort to address the many problems that have arisen in health, the economy and the daily lives of the citizens. Eighteen months ago, not only Greece, but also the whole planet affluently faced the rapid spread of a deadly virus and desperately sought ways to deal with it. In this time our fellow citizens have lost their lives and tens of thousands of others have entered quarantine. Many of them even experienced firsthand the traumatic experience of hospitalization in a hospital bed, unable to breathe, unable to communicate with their loved ones, their friends, their families. Everyone's life changed us. At the same time, science gave its own battle and actually within record time managed to produce effective vaccines that proved to fight at overwhelming rates the virus. Eighteen months after our country now has vaccines directly available to every citizen and every corner of the territory, and the "Freedom" operation continues, bringing us daily and ever closer to the goal of vaccinating the majority of the population. After eighteen months of hard battle with the pandemic, every debate on it requires at least the admission of some already proven truths: First. In social terms, vaccines achieve much more than just disease prevention at individual level, and that is the difference between vaccines and drugs. The vaccination programmes are the koruna of preventive interventions today, but also the fundamental intervention of public health policies, as they lead to the production of public goods, such as collective immunity. In addition to the apparent results of vaccinations in the prevention of diseases, as evidenced by the dramatic reductions in morbidity and mortality related to diseases prevented by vaccination, organised and systematic vaccination programmes also produce a number of externalities. In simple terms, a number of results that go beyond the individual level of the vaccinated and are distributed to all members of society. Second. Humanity's only weapon against COVID -19 is the vaccine. No other treatment prevents it and no other method so drastically prevents its spread. Tuesday. All vaccines are safe and this is confirmed by not only research, but also practically billions of doses that have been in the whole world for months. Fourth. The delta mutation is the most contagious. Today's picture shows it all over the planet, as does our country's recent experience. Thursday. This long-term test is already exhausting everywhere the resources to deal with it, but also the strengths of societies, which do not withstand the initial constraints. Six. Life itself has shown that only the coexistence of political forces and citizens around a coherent, but also a flexible plan. Anyone who disputes these six truths let me say that he is a hypocrite. Because after everything they've done, someone can't support that he didn't know, didn't listen, they didn't tell him. Therefore, anyone who today lets even a mark question the vaccines is fishing in cloudy and dangerous waters. Much more when he allows his associates to diagnose that they are invasive, but also to speak of unauthorized supposed treatments. It is also hypocritical to pretend that he does not see the strengths of the economy and society, irresponsibly asking when to give unreasonable increases and when to close or open traffic and the market depending on the impressions of the moment. And, of course, it is hypocritical that the virus is unknown and unpredictable, so the defence against it must at all times be ready to adapt to the conditions that are being shaped each time and that the common message of policy and the common and responsible attitude of the citizens is necessary for this. With this information alone, the arrangements we bring about for the vaccinations, which are nationally necessary and democratically responsible, because they serve public health, but do not interfere in the area of individual rights. The regulations are still socially sensitive, because they neither forbid nor impose anything on many, but they encourage few people not to harm the vast majority. They are, finally, studied and moderate, because they are not general and universal. On the contrary, the public are promoting those categories of workers who are directly linked to our most vulnerable citizens, while the private sector is given the possibility of protecting themselves at the same time as all the provisions of labour law. In other words, this is a balanced and fair legislative initiative that weights the common good with the individual choice, without forgetting the democratic principle, that freedom coexists with responsibility. Ladies and gentlemen, the state has an obligation to protect all its members and especially the weakest ones. Towards clean truths therefore require clean conduct and clear decisions can only be called into question by clear counter-proposals. The situation does not allow unequivocal attitudes or halves 'and yes, but' nor asterisks. Much more so that the two fronts are gradually formed: it is the side of science and public health and the side of fame and conspiracy, while the margins are narrowing, the economy needs to function, the society must be liberated and the Delta mutation to be dealt with. So, along with the persuasion, we also need measures. Because, precisely, if the latter are missing, the state will have every reason to be accused of inertia by the millions of citizens who have been vaccinated and are entitled to ask for their lives back. It is the policy that all countries are pursuing. The attitude towards the new arrangements which we are bringing to the vote on at the National Representation will therefore judge the seriousness of the parties. It is not possible for people to ask for persuasion when measures are taken and to require measures when campaigns of persuasion are being carried out. Because then they prove to be political opportunistic. But, with their constant solidarity in all directions and all demands, they harm society, eventually sowing the poison of the question and the persuasion of measures. In the end, of course, both the vaccinated and the invasive will vote against them. In the meantime, however, the virus will have gained lifetime to bring pain, while the place will have lost valuable time from its future. I would therefore suggest that those who insist on this impasse make the vaccine of truth and responsibility, and against the Delta mutation, change themselves for the better. And that will be a good news for the health of public life. In conclusion, I should like to refer to the legislative improvements that we are bringing in with the amendment. We include health workers who need to be vaccinated, the staff of the EAW, the National Direct Aid Centre. In addition, the three-month contracts to be concluded may be extended for another three months. Finally, authorisation is granted not only to specialise these measures but also to extend the categories to which the mandatory vaccinations may be imposed, always taking into account public health, the epidemiological situation of the country and the severity of the disease. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u107	Thank you too, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u108	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u109	Wait a minute, Mr Heta, because Mr Ragus, the Parliamentary spokesman for SYRIZA, takes precedence over Mr Ragus. Here, Mr Ragosi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u110	If I may, Mr President, ask an initial question, because it is a fundamental answer - if the Minister wishes to give it - in order to go ahead with two further questions I have. The question, Mr Contozamanis, is first of all this: at the present time in the National Health System, all workers of all kinds in what they are even today inconsistent?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u111	Do you want to ask the other two questions, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u112	That's a basic answer. And for the privileged structures, I'm going to submit it right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u113	So the other two are related to the answer that he's going to give you? Because we're stalling. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u114	Mr Ragossi, the vast majority of health care, proving high responsibility and recognition of the value of vaccination, has been vaccinated. It has been over 85% of vaccination in medical staff and 69% in nursing staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u115	In absolute numbers, Mr. Contozamani.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u116	Now I'm telling you the percentages.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u117	No, don't give any percentages. Please in absolute numbers. You won't be judged by this.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u118	I don't have the absolute number.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u119	Give me a size class.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u120	I can't tell you...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u121	I mean, how much is 15% or 35%...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u122	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u123	How much?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u124	I'm telling you 85%.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u125	The invasive ones, how many doctors are they? It's a size class. Give me that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u126	Fifteen percent.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u127	Now, Mr. Contozamani, don't make fun of me. You don't know...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u128	Mr Ragosi, he gave an answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u129	Mr. Contozamani, you're Minister of Health. You can't know how many doctors in the country are. Now make the calculation of how much 15% is. Are you kidding me? Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u130	All right, do the other two to do the calculation.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u131	Mr. Ragossi, I'm telling you the percentages. I don't have the exact number...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u132	Class of size, give it. Can't you give a size class? Don't you know how many doctors in the country are in the National Health System?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u133	Tell me what you want and I'll answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u134	No, I won't tell you what I want...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u135	Mr. Ragossi, he gave you 85%. You want an exact number.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u136	How many thousands are there, Mr. Contozamanis, the doctors and nurses who have not been vaccinated? How many thousand are there? We're talking about thousands.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u137	Mr. Ragosi...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u138	Mr. Ragosisi, since you see that he's not ready to answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u139	No, it is. And if it's not...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u140	He told you a percentage.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u141	The number, first of all, is dynamic. It's changing from day to day.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u142	The doctor who serves the National Health System?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u143	I can't tell today how many people are vaccinated. I'm giving you a size order based on data available.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u144	Okay. And for the privileged structures, give us the percentages, Mr. Kontozamani, if you have them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u145	Mr. Ragossi, you're questioning him, you're not asking a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u146	Preferential structures do not belong to the Ministry of Health. Is that right? I don't have that number. I can find out if you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u147	All right, Mr. Contozamani.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u148	We'll give it to you. Tell me what you want me to say and I'll answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u149	But I told you. But are you now coming to the Greek Parliament, in front of the Greek people, proposing an amendment for compulsory vaccination of all those who serve the National Health System and are you unable to respond?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u150	Mr. Ragossi, are you mocking us now?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u151	Am I kidding you?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u152	And you supported the mandatory vaccination. What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u153	I haven't told you anything, Mr. Contozamani.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u154	Your Chief.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u155	I haven't told you anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u156	All right, tell me what you want me to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u157	Good. So listen to what I have to say, but starting with the observation that it is not possible for such a crucial issue, such a serious matter to come in and introduce it to the Greek Parliament and choose to appear as a minister who does not know how many doctors and nurses are serving the National Health System. So you know, and we know, Mr. Contozamani....
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u158	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u159	You should answer, Mr. Contozamani. The picture you gave was unacceptable. You can't say numbers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u160	Tell us you and me to answer, are you for or against?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u161	Well, we're in favor and you know it very well, Mr. Contozamani.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u162	And you vote against. Yes, but. Decide.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u163	Are you done? Take it easy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u164	What can I calm down...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u165	At the moment this amendment is not considered, it does not say whether the SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance is in favour or against the vaccinations that we are in favour of and you know that. In fact, for these categories of workers in the National Health System we have officially placed ourselves in favour. Now listen, Mr Contozamanis, because you have used a terminology from these easy rhetoric. You spoke of responsibility, seriousness and clarity. First question, Mr. Kontozamanis: If everything you said today from the Step of the House is valid, why did you not apply them from the first day the Greek state took the vaccines into its hands? Why are you coming today on 22 July, after the Greek state has the vaccines available, to impose mandatory vaccination on them? Question 1. Question 2, and more importantly, Mr Kontozamanis: I have previously asked you how many invasive people are in the national health system. So I answer on behalf of you that there are thousands of doctors and nurses. Others count on them to the levels of ten thousand, others reaching their levels of thirty - thousand. I wanted an answer from you. We didn't take her. That's it. Mr Contozamanis, what is the responsibility and what is the seriousness of a government that comes and asks the Greek Parliament to vote - and it will get the majority - for this amendment when they are unable to say what is going to happen in the country and what will happen to the National Health System if it cannot be assumed that it is not an unfounded employment case - a very large proportion of what is currently incomplete will remain incomplete by accepting to be suspended? What will happen, Minister of Health, to the National Health System if tomorrow morning you, on the basis of this amendment, put out five thousand doctors and ten thousand nurses? Do you know what will happen, Mr. Contozamani? It's going to collapse the National Health System. And that will be the big not just sliding, not just a stumbling-up, but the great political and institutional crime that you will do at the expense of the public health of all citizens. What, then, is the draft government proposing this amendment, as I have just told you? And I'm not the only one telling you. The whole world tells you. What is the responsibility, Mr Conzamanis, to come and introduce such an amendment? What is the seriousness when you have no answer to this critical, decisive, which is the most important thing together with what you have heard from Mr. Xanthos and Mrs. Xenogiannakopoulou....
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u166	Can I answer you, Mr. Ragossi?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u167	...which we say 'no' to this amendment, while saying 'yes' to compulsoryity and vaccination? Because this amendment cannot even pass through your mind how many times you will need to amend it, Mr Contozamanis. But the first time you've tried it, you'd better bring your resignation, not you alone, the government with what it's going to do in the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u168	Mr Hetas has the floor, and then answer, Minister, to both of you. Do you want to be alone?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u169	Answer the whole question, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u170	You should answer the question as a whole. Here, Mr. Heta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u171	Mr President, thank you. You know, Mr. Contozamani, and the way you spoke before, so low-speaking, as a political thriller, it sounded to me as you described them. I am afraid, as you say, of this amendment. Why are we talking about the amendment today, Mr Contozamanis? Because there's a problem. What's the problem? That there is a very large portion of the world that is not inoculated. Why isn't he vaccinated? Because you haven't convinced them. Question: What are the reasons why they have not been convinced? I will tell you, Mr Contozamanis that one of the main reasons why the world has not been convinced is your political figure. Because the world, by closing its eyes and traveling in the recent past, sees your political figure next to Mr. Avramopoulos with the sixteen million thrown vaccines in the land when he paid those vaccines. And it is one of the reasons why he then disappointed all Greeks and said: "I really don't believe Kontozamanis again!"
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u172	What does it have to do with it?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u173	It's a big deal, sir! He was himself next to the then Minister of Health and they were trying to convince the world at the time for H1N1. Now do not go to what the current Minister for Development said and then a member of LAOS for the vaccines. I'm getting past this. But because it is presented and you say that the government operates seriously and straightforwardly, today you are opening the Apollo's hold here. We've been tearing down with Mr. Plearis who told us about the tracheotomy. But you did not tell us, Mr Plearis, that some time ago, the Vice-President of the Government - as you like to say already - Mr Pikrammenos came out and said that the mandatory vaccination should be extended to teachers, children, students, ghosts, seafarers and so on. That's not the end of the list. And that's where you'll take it. Also, Mr Contozamanis, how responsible it is when the Minister of Labour - that is how it goes, work, work - Mr Hatzidakis - is threatening not only by redundancies, but also by deprivation of insurance contributions, when the Minister of the Interior Mr Voridis says that public dismissals will also be disciplinary for the private sector, there will be a great deal of dismissal, when Mrs Kerameos wants to cut education from invasive students, and when Mr Georgiadis tells us that redundancies due to vaccines are legal? You know, Mr. Contozamanis, everything around is changing and everything's staying the same. And you're part of this story. Everything around is changing and everything's left, with you protagonist then, with you protagonist and now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u174	The Minister has the floor, Mr. Kontozamanis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u175	Mr Ragossi, decide what position you take in your party. I referred to yes but, because you say that you support compulsory vaccination and you come here and tell us other things, people will leave. We have anticipated that the contracts will be made. Secondly, Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou said before that we had to move these people to other places. Mr. Ploris explained that, but let me go further than that. This is an incentive not to go to be vaccinated in order to move from a position of responsibility or from the first line to a health structure. We have heard the other way from Mrs Xinoyannakopoulos that the government brings this regulation to the private sector. Mercy! Decide first and tell us: Are you in favour of compulsory vaccination? Are you voting for it? Why don't you vote for it? Your own leader a few months before the vaccine comes to the country you used to infect us about it - you said in December that we would not have vaccines - said that you were doing at least the flu that is sure to come. And the vaccines came and we started. And we started with the sanitary first, because they are the ones who come into contact with our fellow citizens and our weak fellow citizens. Our weak fellow citizens want us to protect. So, finally, decide what you want and tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u176	So you didn't answer me, you didn't answer me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u177	What do you want me to say?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u178	What will you do if a thousand, five thousand doctors and ten thousand nurses are suspended?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u179	Let's see the numbers, Mr. Ragosi, and we'll see. First of all, we have predicted that there will be contracts...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u180	Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u181	No, Mr. Ragosi.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u182	It is very crucial for the country, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u183	I didn't say it's not a critical conversation, but to finish. Mr. Ragossi, everyone in turn.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u184	We're having a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u185	Dialogue doesn't work that way.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u186	However, your proposal to move the staff does not work because it is an incentive - I told you - not to do the vaccine.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u187	Mr. Contozamanis, please understand what I'm asking you to do. That is to say, you are saying that you are introducing an amendment on the basis of which it will be applied - because once it comes into law, it will become law - it will be applied and will possibly be suspended by thousands of doctors, thousands of nurses and then we will see what happens if it is and dawns on such a day.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u188	That's not true.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u189	But is that responsible and serious government, Mr. Contozamani?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u190	The percentage is high and rising.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u191	Mr. Ragosi, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u192	Okay, thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u193	They've shown responsibility for health. Mr. Heta, let me tell you that you're a little confused. You referred to the flu season. Vaccines in the landfills I don't think anyone saw. In fact, the money we paid that year - because some contracts were not implemented - was much less than we paid every year for anti-grain vaccines. I have said this before and you give me the opportunity to repeat it once again. It is a good thing that political controversy, disagreement, that is how Parliament works. But if we all use the language of documentation and the real facts, we will be able to come to an understanding. So, look at the evidence, read and then come here and get in touch. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u194	Thank you very much. Let's move on. Mr Vassilios Economou has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u195	Mr President, this bill would really be a great opportunity for each speaker to express its delight in the political leadership of the Ministry of Justice, which has been glorified for two years by the presence of the Ministry and the area of justice by taking important, modernistic and reformative initiatives which give answers to time-consuming issues. Mr. Ciara is not here now. To him, Mr Kotsira, who has been a brilliant partner in recent years, my personal delight, but I also think that a large part of the political world is involved in important initiatives such as the initiatives for the Court of Auditors. More - to tell the truth - I went to Stepma because of my capacity as chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs. Because as President - as you can see - you can't say much. There you presiding, you make the small President - as I have said - who really has to keep a balance between the powers and does not easily express his personal positions. While here now you have the ability at least to say your opinion. And my view of the amendment that has been tabled in plenary is this: it is not a numerical debate. Very wrong, and as an expert, Mr. Ragusse well went that way, but from the whistle fly you can't make as the people say anger. Why? It is not the government's attempt to numerically increase the number of our vaccinated fellow citizens through the amendment. Is that what Mr Ragus and SYRIZA gentlemen understood? The issue that comes in here is political, symbolic. It is an issue that concerns the substance of the case, namely the vaccination programme, if we want it or do not want it in the country. It is not the question of the four - five thousand doctors who have so far refused to do so either because of belief or because of other cases - I do not know, I do not want to describe - all ten - fifteen thousand nurses who have not yet been vaccinated. That's not the point. You're not adding anything terrible to the five million seven hundred thousand that is right now. What you want to send as a message to society is very specific: First-line forces, such as nurses, doctors, personnel involved in care units, disabled people, health centres, rehabilitation centres, hospitals, should not, for reasons of principle, be vaccinated. I think that's what we all agree on. That's symbolic. That is what we need to get together from this Chamber out. SYRIZA and Mr. Tsipras every day and every week I'm afraid he falls into new mines. It's a torture course, not because of the heat, but because of the dilemmas that get him in front of Mr. Tsipras. It's stringing. And the rope vague passes hours of agony, I see. On the one hand, within his own party he is the moderate and rational voice of Mr. Xanthos. On the other hand, it is Mr Polakis' hardline and voice. How, then, can the political leader of SYRIZA be barred at the moment on these two lines, and what is the line that will give him the benefits of politics, to get out of agony, as every week washing a cold sweat by reading the goulops? In this respect, Mr Xanthi, I see you in front of me, could take a very clear position. The position is one: yes, we support the vaccination programme and especially in the healthcare area there is no discussion. The asterisks and "yes, but" leave no clear picture. I am not saying that, on the leadership level - of course, your position is clear - there is a debate on the vaccination programme and on the direction of population vaccination. But the dilemmas are entering your party. Mr. Paulakis was a Deputy Minister. He wasn't an accident. He wasn't just a SYRIZA MEP. It is a man who strongly expresses a tendency within your party and uses other phrases, puts issues completely differently. Mr Tsipras, therefore, instead of overcoming these objections within his own party, comes and puts asterisks and footnotes as well. For me, it's fine. Keep going like this. He won't get a vote. I don't see it taking a vote at the special gatherings of the Constitution. I have read and seen beliefs there, crazy stories, people of half learning and unlearned - the half learning, I believe, is something worse - who said things and miracles from the newspapers and electronic media reports. Where these people were found, unfortunately it was a tragic picture. But there are also people who can function through beliefs, through hysterical and graphic political positions and opinions that may dominate. That's where SYRIZA bets to get votes. That makes me a terrible impression. If he thinks so and if he wants to do so, let him try it, but I think that he will lose too many serious people who are on the centre-left side, he is in the center area and are not touched by such beliefs and opinions. So to end up and be in my time a little bit - very much, there is no way that an average citizen would not ask his doctor and his nurse to be vaccinated. There isn't. Not because the measurements made, where we've seen them, are recorded in this dilemma. Because it's simple logic. It is neither left nor right-wing nor central. It's just logic. So, in answering the question of simple logic, the government said that in hospitals, health centers, nursing homes, disability centres, where, after all, sensitive social groups, people who are on the front line and who have given a sanctuary to Hippocrates and where else, in the Constitution and the laws of the state, they should be vaccinated. Is there a more reasonable matter than that? If we ensure this and don't put any footnotes, let's go see now what mass propaganda we're going to do to the rest of the general population, see if to the one who keeps the cross of God and believes he's protecting him, he's coming up with such a doctrine against the coronary, mind him, and we can convince him, tell him two things positive, go and do his vaccine. But this is another debate about the general population. On specific issues such as health care, should we be having such a debate here and, indeed, intense ones? I think some people don't blame themselves. That's my opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u196	Thank you, Mr. Economou. Alexandros Aylonite is called in Stepma by SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, Corfu. Here, you can now tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u197	Thank you, Mr President. Morning, noon and night, before and after dinner, when you take the floor, you talk about Mr. Polakis. I address to you, the Members of the New Democracy. I ask directly: has your parliamentary group asked you whether you have been vaccinated or not? Are there any of your parliamentary group Members who have not been vaccinated? Answer that once, of course you wish. Mr. Floris again. The core of his position is that SYRIZA Members, his parliamentary group, the entire party, a part of the Greek people, want nothing but the world to be vaccinated, to magnify the problem, to die in order to get the elections. But is it not terrible, is it not simplistic, is it not inhumane, is it not defamatory for our political system, such an argument? Is that what Mr. Ploris understood so long that we've been fighting with you and have we backed up on the issue of society vaccination? It does some legal acrobatics, like we here, which in any case we have been enthusiastic about the legal years all, we are completely foolish, we eat hay. Why am I saying this? Let's start from this. You have asked the National Bioethics Commission to give you its opinion - it is required by law - how to impose vaccination on some Greek citizens. What was right in my opinion? This bill, this amendment to send it to the National Bioethics Commission, to give you its opinion. The National Bioethics Committee generally replied that any initiatives taken should be escalating. He told you that your action should be targeted, with information and awareness, to achieve citizens' vaccination. He told you, among other things, that any measures and sanctions cannot be of a general nature. I asked before, when Mr Contozamanis was here, to ask him a question. Of course, the President has forbidden me, and that makes sense. Our parliamentary representative spoke. I would ask anyone to reply to me: Article 1 of the amendment says that workers in the public and private sectors who have completed the coronary vaccination or have been ill in the last six months are required to demonstrate to the head of their organic unit and their employer a certificate of COVID, etc. Or that they've been sick. And they're required up to 31-12-2021. Question One: Is this particular provision general to all the people? Question 2: If a worker does not have a COVID certificate, is he ill or has not received a vaccine, what fate will he have in relation to labour law? Can you give him the opportunity to fire the employer tomorrow morning following the publication of this amendment in the Official Journal of the Government? Please reply to us, Mrs Xeno-Giannakopoulou has mentioned this. For our part, we have never, ever, ever, expressed the opposite view, because we recognised that protection of the great good of human life and public health in these circumstances must be guaranteed. No one can disagree - and that is the truth and we are bruising it - that vaccination is an intervention in the private life of man, in his body, and therefore requires consent of man, Mr Ploris said so. So the enforceability of vaccination imposed by the state by natural coercion is forbidden both in our Constitution and in our international obligations to international conventions. Because it offends human dignity. However, with escalating actions aimed at protecting public health, in specific structures such as those mentioned in the amendment, who live or are hospitalized by people who need special health protection, or who come into contact with the coronary virus or with coronary patients, then without any reservation - I repeat, without any reservation - I believe that these actions are constitutionally acceptable and are not contrary to international conventions. Have you ever heard of that before? Why do you say the opposite? This is SYRIZA's position. But, and here we are absolute, your institutional actions, such as today, do not discipline the basic principle that defines our legal system, the so-called principle of proportionality. Where did he get lost in his vocabulary, this principle of Mr. Plearis? The vaccination measures must be escalating - and the National Bioethics Commission has told you - and the sanctions must be imposed in such a way that they are not extreme, not burdensome or inhumane. It seems to me that your amendment comes to impose burdensome sanctions, without explaining with conviction the need for vaccination to the debtors, without the scope for applying consensual measures that promote moral responsibility and social solidarity. I didn't hear such words in it, I didn't hear them from MPs. In particular, without any protection of the fundamental right to work. I have already referred to Article 1 which we have all been through, and that is the maximum in my view that will have serious consequences. And why these provisions and sanctions are burdened, when the suspension of duties is provided for immediately, with the non-payment of remuneration to the staff of the public and private sectors. In practice this means redundancies of workers in private structures and contractors in ESS structures and in pre-school institutions. Especially in the public sector, the State as an employer cannot deprive the wages of civil servants permanently or contractors and create them a biopollution problem. Because these sanctions are burdensome, they are laudable and they run counter to the principle of proportionality, which is the core of our legal system and I repeat twice. Forced unpaid leave is a punishment. Mr. Mitsotakis actually restores the availability to the public on new terms. Mr. Blonde said that. The Government once again selects the line of authoritarianism and division, selects in the name of public health a measure which does not respond to the major problem of the inadequate immune protection of society against the Delta mutation and the fourth pandemic wave. It shows that the New Democracy cannot guarantee social and political consensus towards a murder pandemic. It cannot guarantee neither the economic security of society nor the armoring of tourism. Come to Corfu to see where yesterday the Greek State rented the Ministry of Tourism and another unit to hospitalize the people who come there to make tourism. So the need for a change of course in the political affairs of the country is obvious for reasons of public health, and I see in relation to the bill that Mr Tsiaras has regressed in relation to Article 9, which provided for the repressive control of the legal associations and legal persons of public law and did well because he opposed all the people who work in public law and legal persons, and I will obviously repeat what Mr Xanthopoulou said, the question of the outstanding cases at the Court of Auditors. They are about 100 thousand citizens, who are anxiously waiting for their case to be dealt with in order to get their pensions. So I thought it would be appropriate for me to pass on this, to tell you here today. Of course I am in favour of my party's position, we are voting for the bill, we are voting against the amendment. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u198	Thank you, too. I will now give the floor to Mr Bloucho, Dramino, then to Mr Kalamatano and then to the Parliamentary Representative of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr Ragosi. Mr. Konstantinos Blouchos is therefore called to Stepma from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u199	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to start with the false dilemmas that have been put in the previous numerology. And because I do not see any more colleagues, I am addressing Mr Blonde, the former Minister for medicine. If a few thousand people are missing from the system right now - and we need one of us in the system, we know that very well - it is going to shave the system. But if all these people enter with what clinical practice we will proceed when we know what our suffering was with the coming of the second wave. We must protect our patients as well as health professionals. How will they work if they come in? So this is a fake felony. Our target is basic and one. And health professionals must be protected - in our capacity as professionals - and dominated by our fellow citizens who will suffer. In a draft law, therefore, on the functioning of justice, but also on the updating of the functions of its designated state today vis-à-vis the concept of the rule of law, it is encouraging that in principle, but also in the majority of the articles of this article, there is a positive attitude from most of us who are in agreement and not within the Chamber. In such a bill, which my fellow lawyers have the first word, I, too, intervene as a doctor and as a citizen, in particular for the amendment. As a citizen, however, and poorly for my country, a poor thing that often stumbles either in the way of justice or in its weaknesses. The bill in principle, and on the articles, has been sufficiently analysed by the Ministry's leadership and by our rapporteur. It is clearly very important that it receives due attention and positive attention, despite individual reservations from the opposition as well as major and minor. I am going through the detailed remarks on its aspects, and I quote some relationships on the grounds of our amendment at issue. How does the government go? With proportionality and without unnecessary demonstrations of authoritarianism, but also with determination. Everything else at this juncture will be defeated by democracy. And let us stop seeking a crisis in our democracy in the state's forced choices, when the dominant problems for the crisis of a modern democracy are per capita farming, the prejudiciality of populism that boasts and fertilizes any kind of irrationalism and the logic of inaction in every instinctive national challenge that is boasted with horrendous syndrome, uncertainties and intrinsic hesitation in the new. In the shadow of compulsoryity the problem is settled, i.e. agonizing jurisdiction, and the question of the major one is no longer discussed. So find the ways in which skepticism will be removed and how to bring about a halt to the destructive effects of the pandemic, to put the tone back on both the skepticism of the negative and the fertile hesitancy of the rest of the citizens. And basically, how the logic of safeguarding public health will prevail will prevail. Our democracies are and must be filled with compulsory social contracts and with a basic statutory principle: the absolute safeguard of the general interest. The ultimate version, therefore, of the epitome in a democratic modern society of the concept of general interest is public health. Possibly, nothing more than that. These are key concepts of the public sphere that need urgent clarification, which, because of possible and unconscious counterfeiting, tend to lose their crucial importance. Where is distortion and error hiding? In the conceptual funnel of the necessitation and self-determination of each of us? That is not clear. The notion of public health as such and how many other principles, which are predominantly subject to scientific ethics and morality. Many of them have been mentioned: the benefit, efficiency, proportionality. I would like to quote here, because by carefully following the speeches of some excellent and friendly opposition parliamentarians, I understood their fascism, Mr Co-rapporteurs, on the subject. Yes, in fact, but also the symptom of conclusion. You think that's more politically secure. I have heard about the requirement of universal vaccination and that, yes, there are also the mandatoryities, but. So I understand that there is a 'yes' diffuse but also overshadowed. I am impressed, because we are accused by the major opposition, that, on the basis of the conclusion of the Bioethics Committee, we must exhaust escalating interventions - and what we have not spent a year and a half - and from the minor fact that we have been delayed by compulsoryity. But it is true that we understand both consciousness and unconscious reluctance and reluctance and scepticism. It's the intrinsic morality of questioning. In all this, however, think that we are a country where there is no corresponding experience, we have not experienced such tragic phenomena. There is no culture of intergenerational respect, such as in countries of the Far East, and like, after all, there were no policy-making practices, that is, political culture, to deal with issues of this range of public health. All of this forms the basis and partly or wholly justify the opposition and, possibly, the dismissal of a portion of the world. But it will be tragic to throw water into the mill of zealism and deniers and not to be able to lift any doubts and fertile fears of our fellow humans. Metabolism of health is not coercive. It's an act of responsibility, an act of hierarchy. Obligation shall constitute an act of reasonable legality. In the acrobatic times we live, respect for the sanctity of the person is respect for human dignity. It is crucial to demonstrate and restore the authority of the scientific community. It is eloquently unacceptable that this prestige should be condemned by ourselves. We do not manipulate or tool modern science. The compulsory vaccination, however, in some social working groups, here, is evidence of total practices of the past. It is a shame for politicians and other journalists to leave implied to increase in their political denominator reactivity and zealism. It is thus exploiting their political capital and easily this populism could be termed malignant. That government is accused, because throughout the pandemic, it has taken forward, systematically and targeted information as objectively as possible, sufficient and continuously. On the basis of the above considerations, the Commission concludes that, in order to ensure the proper functioning of the State, the public authorities have to take into account the specific characteristics of the State concerned. Do they all harmonize in that? Oh, no. The majority, if any. That is why we exist under the conditions we coexist. What's the cut-off on that? Sprinklers, enclosures are those who are making every effort, possibly socially immoral, to multiply with their word the unimportant and problematic, without of course being subject to reflection. The ideological manipulations of reluctance and denial and conceptual smuggling are divided. It is bizarre to approach those who make public, when persuading the reasoning and the false dilemmas of a questioning port. It is splitting the approach of those who bury the message of our freedom from danger. The message's purity is the first requirement, the world's trust and the Greek scientific community as well as the second and the third confidence in the orderly state. Ladies and gentlemen, this state is not the government. We are all and any division must be about engraving us against an enemy. And this enemy is the coroner. So let us overcome the illusions of the arguments by over-simplifications, let us not remember citizens with misguided flaws, let us isolate the barren chatter and the noisy fireworks, because public health and respect for our collectiveness are unnecessarily committed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u200	Thank you, Mr. Bluehock. The Dionysus Kalamatian is called in Stepma by SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance and the New Ilias. Do they know that Peneus arrives down there?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u201	Yes, Mr. President. There's a municipality too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u202	It's not just Larissa.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u203	Thank you, Mr President. I, too, start my speech on today's important subject. Unfortunately, the tabling of the amendment yesterday afternoon actually leaves us no room to deal with the bill. We don't have time to deal with the law of the Ministry of Justice on the Court of Auditors' Code. You must understand, ladies and gentlemen, that in essence this amendment opens up the coast of Haul and, in fact, a new given class is being created in our country's legal order. First of all, the introduction of the amendment is essentially a confession of failure on your part. You have been defeated, ladies and gentlemen, and you are basically confessing to this amendment. You were unable to convince citizens of the value of vaccination. You were unable to convince them that the vaccine is a gift of life from science. You didn't manage to convince them that it was a basic weapon in the fight against the deadly virus. With the mistakes, with the omissions, with your relics, you challenge and doubt to the citizens. You have made a mistake with extortion, authoritarianism, threats, takeovers with the 150-kilometre in youth, with division, to cover your own responsibilities. Now you're making it even worse. You tell workers, public and private health, elderly and disabled care units to make the vaccine, or they will not receive a wage and have no insurance contributions. In other words, you connect the vaccine that protects life by eliminating workers. They're being sentenced to poverty, to poverty, to hunger, to biopoverty. Really, do you think you'll be able to convince the citizens to do the vaccine? And not just them, of course, but everyone else? Do you not understand that coercion, threats cause even greater lack of confidence, social automation, social reactions and social conflicts? Do you not understand that in this way you are strengthening the arguments of those who doubt, those who refuse the vaccine and those who believe in conspiracy theories? Do you not understand that you are undermining the effort to protect public health by vaccination? With these choices and the results your policy will have, what will you do next? Will you go to compulsory universal vaccination of all workers in the private and public sectors that come into contact with the public, with teachers, with workers in the focus, in the public transport, with the military, with the police, with the priests, with everyone? So where are we going? In compulsory universal vaccination, which is unconstitutional, and you know it? To what you have voted against, too? In what you have voted on in the Council of Europe? What does the Council of Europe's decision say? You voted for it. You don't know that? Can you bring it up for a vote now? Where is the constitutional principle of proportionality? You're leveling it all in order to hide your responsibilities. And you dare talk about consensus? We have proved our responsible attitude. We put our backs to save the Greek people in order to protect the Greek people from the coronary. But do you really think we could agree on this unacceptable amendment? Could we link vaccination to the violation of labour rights, to the condemnation and punishment of workers and whole families to incompetent and risk of survival? You tell them "do the vaccine to live, otherwise you lose the only means of biopoverty". And not only that, but with paragraph 1 of the amendment 'commitment to demonstrate a certificate or certificate of vaccination or disease', you are moving towards a generalisation of compulsoryity. First of all, you're only talking about workers. The employer who will be required to show his certificate? Nowhere. You don't say anything about him, just about the workers. What if the worker doesn't have a certificate or doesn't want to have a certificate what he's going to do? You're not saying. Dismissal? Make it clear. Here is essentially a generalisation of compulsoryity and you leave the possibility of redundancies open at a time when the recently passed law on labour, the Hatzidakis Act, will go to the courts the worker will cancel his dismissal and get some more wages and end the story there. That's what you've done. Make it clear. No, ladies and gentlemen, that's not the way. There are ways to find solutions. What can be done - we have proposed it a long time, because you blame us - is the movement of workers. Those who are vaccinated on the front line, in contact with the world and those who are not, in other tasks, moving. Did that happen in the past? Is it done by now? Of course it's done. What happened to Coreper? Didn't it happen to Coreper, Mr. Comrade? What happened there? What did the Council of State decide? Dismissal? Payroll? Oh, no. Move. It's done. Why don't you do it? Why are you going to "toe hurting, cutting hands" now? Is that reasonable and legitimate? You don't tell us what to do when the problem comes. 'We'll see', you say. This is where you play with public health. 'Will we see' with public health? Is that possible? Go ahead and see what happens next? I hope the system doesn't collapse, but what about what you do? What brings that thing you're bringing? Have you considered the consequences of your actions and of this legislation?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u204	Mr. Kalamatain, you have less than a minute left for the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u205	I am talking about the bill, Mr President, on the amendment. I'll be done. Public health protection is a top item. We tell the citizens'slow off, get over the recurring, tragic mistakes, the undermining of the Government in vaccination'. We're talking about the citizens being vaccinated. We're in favor of the vaccine. It's a life-time gift, the vaccine. That is what the citizens are doing, but we cannot link them to the elimination and equalisation of labour rights and the right of workers to survival. Only two words, Mr President, on the amendment to the ELGA. The Minister for Rural Development was committed to bringing the issue of advance payments shortly until the end of July. Finally, we see the amendment that it goes for October. Three more months will the destroyed farmers and producers wait to get their money and advances. But there is a great doubt and anguish, especially for raisin producers in Elias, as to whether they will get the full amount of compensation. Of course you leave completely uncovered the citrus producers who saw their production being destroyed by the frost. They don't have bloom. They will practically cultivate this year without collecting anything, because there will be incarpia. Zero income, therefore, to these producers and is referred to the PEAs. If they have a budget - which is too small for their budget - then at some point they may get something, in the uncertain future, in a very long time. And especially for potato and watermelon producers, there is virtually nothing for 2021 that this year because of the coronary, because of their pandemic, their income has collapsed. So you are not responding to the problems of farmers as a whole. These are not solutions that you propose. In particular, we are voting against the amendment, and I do not think that you had a requirement for us to vote on such an amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u206	Thank you, too. The SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative - the Progressive Alliance Mr.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u207	Thank you, Mr President. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, today it fits this phrase - very often we are all using it - 'we have lived for that too'. In other words, we have now lived in the middle of a pandemic for the government to come and - and for it to take a while - the majority vote in Parliament to establish a regulation with this amendment on compulsory vaccination without having discussed it with anyone, without having been subject to any dialogue, of a consultation. And when it actually comes to the difficult question, in the torture question "what will happen with the National Health System if you put thousands of doctors and thousands of nurses who might continue to refuse vaccination" the Mitsotakis Government's answer is "we'll see". It is an answer they give to the Greek Parliament before the Greek people, who will obviously see this "see" will spread throughout the entire Greek society to testify to the irresponsibility and the lack of seriousness of these critical circumstances of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis. Is it possible to bring an amendment here without knowing what the results will be from its implementation? Don't be foolish, we know. How much do you want to say? 50%, 60%, 70% of those who have not agreed to be vaccinated until now, will they accept to be vaccinated? But, as a former colleague of the New Democracy has rightly said, the National Health System, even a doctor if the job is suspended tomorrow, let alone dozens of doctors, dozens of nurses, hundreds of doctors, hundreds of nurses, thousands of potential doctors, thousands of nurses. But is that serious? Is that responsible? Honestly, it's like, "But what do you finally do? Rise and shine.’ You have broken every record of urgency in these critical circumstances and a superficiality that becomes just criminal, because it is about and has consequences for public health, human health. And that proves why we are really 'in favour' of compulsory vaccination in these categories of health, we are obviously 'in favour' of the vaccination of Greek society, but yes, we deny this amendment. We refuse to be co-responsible for this criminal irresponsibility. I honestly tell you, and I believe every fellow Member, I do not know whether such irresponsibility, such presumptuousness, such a lack of seriousness with regard to human life in the midst of a pandemic, comes to you and tell you "I don't know, we'll see what happens then", as if you're talking to the cafeteria or as if you're talking to a simple citizen who just gives you an idea. I will not go far, Mr President. Two, I would like to say three words, because everything has already been said by both our colleagues and our rapporteur, Mr Hatzigiannakis, about the bill. Just say a word about the bill, Mr. Undersecretary you're here. One issue is the provisions of a technician at the ends of a bill. Another issue is the political substance on the basis of which a government is facing the Court of Auditors, namely financial control over the management of public money, in other words how it treats public money. Because the Court of Auditors is the custodian of defending public money, as it is at least budgetaryly moving. So what's the point? Is the essence just the bill? It's not. You are a government indeed, which has basically made the Court of Auditors a marginal judicial presence. I will not only invoke the fact that at the request of the President of the SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance, Mr Tsipras, from this step by the Court of Auditors to oversee the cases directly involving coronary commissions in the Committee on Institutions and Transparency, you have made sure that this proposal is rejected. Does the idea that someone believes in the Court of Auditors promote the idea, but also the functioning of the Court of Auditors judged in this bill? No, it's judged in the field of the act. So when it was time and we told you: 'You made the Court of Auditors check all these direct awards currently made - allegedly - because of the pandemic', you said: 'No, far away from the Court of Auditors'. This is your assessment of the Court of Auditors. We have arrived at - at least, I have a post, which I will submit in the minutes - on 19 July 2021, a few days earlier, to announce: 'Preparation of direct awards in the context of public procurement, as is shown by the elements of the Central Electronic Register of Public Contracts for the period from 1 January 2020 to 30 April 2021', that is to say, about the largest part of the pandemic '... over a total of sixty-six thousand nine hundred public contracts, sixty-four thousand forty-four thousand were awarded directly, with the percentage being 60,77%'. If you have your god, ladies and gentlemen! What Court of Auditors are you telling us? What Court of Auditors do you promote? What Court of Auditors do you think? One hundred and sixty - four thousand direct assignments from a total of about seven hundred thousand public contracts! These are the things of the Government of Mr Mitsotakis, who, in other words, believes in the Court of Auditors. I would also like to refer to one last point, because there was a reference and a detailed reference made by the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, quite rightly, to a certain extent, because it also concerned him personally. But anyway, it is a matter which Greek society has been discussing since yesterday. I, too, refer to the well-known now, great achievement of our compatriot, Giannis Antetokubo. Indeed, since yesterday, you have all started talking about it and you are doing well. And when I say, I mean all of you, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, who have rabiesically fought for all these years all the legislative initiatives that have come to this Parliament, in 2015 by the government of Alexis Tsipras, in order not to take Greek citizenship, children born or going to school in Greece and who are born by parents, who are legal in Greece, are not immigrants without papers, are legal immigrants. However, you are doing well and congratulating yourself. The question is: has the New Democracy changed its mind? Is it time for the New Democracy to apologize to these children? Is it time for New Democracy to make its self-criticism about this dirty political game that has played on the back of these children these years, since 2010 voted for the first time in the year n.3838 until today? Yes or no? That's the question. For congratulating Antetokoumbo, because he took the NBA Championship is the easy solution of every right-wing populist, with the first and best of all Mr Samaras and now, his worthy successor, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, whoever political and institutional, when it is time for the country to discuss how to deal with this category of citizens and how to give them Greek citizenship, says "No, down your hands! Greeks don't get born and vote against bills. And not only does it vote against the bills, but it goes across the streets and shoots. The New Democracy, in 2012, had made a central issue in the May 2012 elections of the law on citizenship, which then said is a law that would abolish it, because it is the law that brings illegal immigrants to Greece. You have set the whole political trade on this issue. So, did you change your mind, ladies and gentlemen, of the New Democracy? You need to place, otherwise, from there on, since you have not changed your mind, since you have not decided to apologize, you have not decided to make your self-criticism, then simply, all you do is continue to pretend. Here's Rhodes, behold, and fuck. Have you changed your mind? Do you agree - yes or not - that next to blood law, Greece will, in a permanent way, intergroup from one point to another, adopt the law of the ground? Do you agree - yes or not - that these children born or going to school in Greece by legal parents of migrants will be able to obtain Greek citizenship at their request? If you agree, say it. And I tell you sincerely, firstly - and I am sure all my colleagues - that we will welcome such a change of attitude. It will be a historic change of attitude for the Right in Greece. But if you haven't changed your mind and insist on these unacceptable views for a modern society, then honestly you can prove how enthusiastic in hypocrisy you remain as a party. Because if you have not changed your mind, while congratulating Antetokubo, you say: "Our Yannakis, again you or your child if you were born again in Greece, we would not give you citizenship". That's what you tell Giannis Antetokokoumbo, that you congratulate him, because he's a terrible and terrible Greek who makes us all proud to the ends of the world. The New Democracy, frankly, does not know where it will stop this catastrophe, on which it is moving and, unfortunately, on which it also leads the country. You don't leave anything upright. You unleash basic institutional conquests of Greek society. You are administering this great pandemic issue with the culmination of today's amendment which you are bringing to the vote on. And of course, you also continue this truly immoral communication game, but believe it, but to say other things to finally want to believe that the Greek people. But one, two, three of the liar comes his bad moment sometime. I think she, like all my colleagues, is coming for you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u208	We are also grateful, Mr Ragosi, for the time being. The reason is the Kingdom - Peter Spanakis from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u209	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u210	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u211	Ladies and gentlemen, in listening to the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, two questions have been raised. The first question is, if he has read this bill concerning the Court of Auditors and knowing that he was a Mayor of Paros, but also a Minister of the Interior, whether he read and compared what he brings and what this bill introduces. Honestly, dear Parliamentary Representative of the SYRIZA, I would also like to have a debate on an article, to see what this draft law on the Court of Auditors improves, as well as on self-government. My second question is this bilingualism, this bilinguality that we have been accustomed to in recent weeks by SYRIZA. In other words, it says yes to the vaccinations, it says 'yes' to the immunization of the vaccinations, but when we go to 'how' it all is 'no'! And I wonder what you're going out to say to Greek society. Don't you understand the dangers that exist? You're not talking to doctors? Aren't you talking to this society? I am not going to tell you the classic that you see the polls at last how unrealistic you are, but I sincerely regret the fact that the amendment on the compulsory vaccination in thirteen specific categories, as provided for in Article 2 of the amendment, you are coming today and saying that you are voting against it. You say 'yes, we want vaccinations and move on', but you do not go on supporting the Government in vaccinations. But the Greek people see and judge and compare and we will see this whenever the next national elections take place. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today because, as the President quite rightly said, we also need to talk about the bill - a draft law which incorporates all the organic regulations for the Court of Auditors in a single text. The start was made with Law 4700/2020, almost a year earlier. And today the Ministry of Justice brings to the vote the organic law of the Court of Auditors adapting the existing rules to the new data of the Court of Auditors, as well as to the new data of the European Court of Justice, amended and supplemented some of the provisions of the previous law, and the institution's possibilities for informing Parliament about budgetary and pension issues are upgraded. Although it is a quite technical bill, its regulations concern society as a whole, since all the powers of the Supreme Financial Court are exercised in favour of the social system as a whole. Justice - and I imagine there is an absolute agreement on this - is the foundation for a rule of law for all democracies for centuries. The Court of Auditors set up in 1833 with the establishment of almost the new Greek state is the highest institution for the control of public expenditure. Along with the Arion Ice and the Council of State are one of the three highest courts in Greece. As the Supreme Financial Court, its way of functioning and its effectiveness play a crucial role in the confidence of citizens in the state. So it is our duty, and especially in this Chamber, to restore the authority of the institution and the confidence of the citizens in the state. The first section of the bill relates to the organic law of the Court of Auditors. The first part shall include provisions on competences, organisation, staffing, tasks and other relevant provisions. I come to the second part on relations with Parliament and the upgrading of information provided to it. It is laid down, inter alia, that the precise content of the Court of Auditors' annual report, which should not be confused with the State's State's statement of accounts and balance sheet, is to be founded: the Court of Auditors' powers as external auditors of the general government to verify the consolidated financial reports of these bodies are conferred. The content of the report on the State's accounts and balance sheet shall be broadened to include Parliament's information on major budgetary developments. A special procedure shall be laid down for the exercise of the Court of Auditors' opinion on pension bills before they are introduced into plenary by the section of studies and opinions. The following chapters concern controls and charging. I shall briefly refer to the third section, which contains various budgetary provisions, such as rules on the operational expenditure of IATA I, as well as regulations or debt write-offs. In particular, Article 181 defines the operational expenditure of the Local Government A' degree bodies relating mainly to social benefits or actions with prizes for intellectual or cultural achievements. Articles 182 and 183 amend the provisions on the procedure and the authority responsible for declaring dues to the State as unacceptable recovery and the procedure for deletion thereof. In the next two articles we have the corresponding arrangements for insurance liabilities. Ladies and gentlemen, the functioning of the Supreme Financial Court ensures transparency in the functioning of the State and ensures effective control of public spending so that citizens are informed and trusted in the state and policy being pursued. Today's draft law, which is the product of a legislative committee under the President of the Court of Auditors, actually upgrades the institution, taking into account all the latest data on the case law of the European Courts, but also on international practices and greatly enhances its cooperation with Parliament. These reforms bring to the bill, and that is why I started my position in Parliament by saying that I wonder if the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, who has also served as Minister of the Interior, who has been the Mayor of the Municipality of Cyclades, has read this bill to finally see what changes bring to local government and to make his self-criticism. What was the situation in his day when he was in the Ministry of the Interior and when he experimented against local societies? Even today local communities pay the age of Ragosi, because that is true and we have to hide it, but we have to judge it. I shall speak about the amendments and thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance. So, today, you are going to vote against the amendment we are bringing for vaccinations. Let's see what you're going to say to society tomorrow at the cafes, on the street, on the sidewalk. What are you gonna say? That "we want the vaccinations, but what the Mitsotakis government brings is what we are voting against"? Is that what you're going to tell the Greek people? Or you'll come back and say that "We don't want to hire. We don't want extensions. We don't want accelerating pensions. Do we not want to see regulations brought forward by Amendment No 997 by the Ministry of Rural Development?"? Ladies and gentlemen, I think that the Greek people now know who are responsible, who can understand the real needs of the Greek society and proceed with the reform work. In a few days' time the House closes for August, but the legislative work is appropriate, it is concrete and moves forward, because what is important is that we overcome the difficulties and overcome them. That is why all the wings must vote for this bill and the amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u212	Thank you, Mr. Spaniard. I will now give Mr Georgios Papaliou the floor from SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance and Arcadia. Before we go to the speeches via Webex, I will give the floor to the Deputy Minister of Justice Mr. Georgios Kotsira and then to the Parliamentary Representative of the JRC Mr. Pafilis. Mr. Papaliou, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u213	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the draft Court of Auditors, whose powers are provided for in Article 98 of the Constitution. Therefore, by definition, this draft law is linked to the application of the principles of good administration, transparency and accountability. However, in contrast to this, today the dispersion and smashing of public money is good. Direct awards of public contracts constitute a longest deal either for supplies and services or for the preparation of studies and for the construction of projects. It is apparent from the data from the Central Electronic Contracting Register for the period from 1-1-2020 to 30-4-2021 that a total number of two hundred sixty nine hundred public procurement contracts were awarded directly, that is, sixty-four thousand forty-forty, that is, 60.77%. In fact, with the entry into force of Law No 4782/2021, the amounts for direct awards are increased by 50% for contracts for goods, services and studies and by 200% for projects. However, considering the elements of the first period of application of Law 4782 it appears that there is even a slight increase in contracts by direct award compared to the corresponding period of 2020. According to data from the Central Electronic Register of Public Contracts with the exception of the COVID Conventions - 19 this year in March, ten thousand thousand contracts were signed with a direct award of EUR 94.8 million compared with nine thousand five hundred sixteen contracts in March 2020 at a total value of EUR 90.5 million. And life goes on, Minister and gentlemen of the government. I will briefly refer to the current bill because almost everything has been said and at the end I will make two comments on the famous amendment to compulsory vaccination. The current bill is moving - we have said it - in a positive direction, since it is, indeed, a product of the legislative committee under the chairman of the Court of Auditors. It focuses on a single text, the existing legislation is codified, some new provisions are added. adapting the existing arrangements to the newest data of the constitutional case-law of the Court of Auditors, the case-law of the Court of Justice of the European Union and the European Court of Human Rights. Insert the system of multiple statutory checks. In other words, any operation which has budgetary implications is, first of all, to what extent each institution has been involved in order to make such an allocation. Of course, this raises the issue of parallel and often overlapping audits by many competent bodies, such as the Court of Auditors, the coordinator of the decentralised administrations, the managing authorities which all of these sometimes decide differently by adopting contradictory decisions among themselves. Recently, under Decision 770/2021 of the Council of State, the overridingness of the Court of Auditors’ audit in relation to any other audit which is not judicial and which is also expected to be decided by the Court of Auditors in the same direction is recognised under Decision 770/2021. In this context, the twofold roles and the two own tasks of the Court of Auditors are recognised, since it is also a supreme financial court, as well as the highest, the basic public audit mechanism of the State and the bodies. In addition, the bill upgrades the cooperation of the Court of Auditors with Parliament to provide detailed technical information on budgetary and pension issues. All this is positive. That is why we are also voting for the current draft law. It is good that with legislative improvement you have foreseen that professional scientific associations, organised on a mutual basis in the field of their management of property and on the basis of legal persons governed by public law in relation to executive powers, will not be subject to the Court of Auditors' control, since their only resources are the contributions of their members and cannot be considered as public resources. Finally, I would like to make another comment on the external partners, who must be specialized scientists. There are, of course, questions here about access to information from public bodies and the management of public money and, therefore, respect for the principles of confidentiality and the protection of personal data, except that in the country the Court of Auditors is the supreme court, so there are issues of impartiality and judicial ethics. There must therefore be a clear institutional framework with rules to be followed by external partners. I shall end with a few comments on the amendment to compulsory vaccination. By ignoring the suggestion made by the National Bioethics Commission for staggering State initiatives and targeted information and awareness actions aimed at voluntary vaccination of citizens, the Government is tabling this amendment without the margins of persuasive and consensual measures promoting moral responsibility and social solidarity have been exhausted. It's a unknown country for you, the government side. The amendment falls within the framework of the Government of the New Democracy's failure to manage the pandemic. There was no support for the ESS, and especially for primary health care, the workplaces, schools, public transport, opened up tourism without or under poor rules, the vaccination process has failed, and the wall of social immunity has therefore failed to be away and the government has been aged and contradicted by accuseing society, youth and referring to individual responsibility. For her, of course, everything is well done. So there is a crisis of society's confidence in the state. This will be exacerbated by this regulation, which is characterised by authoritarianism and hypocrisy after it triggers both social automation and division. In particular, the amendment continues on the occasion of the New Democracy pandemic to find itself in the crisis in order to promote its neoliberal policies. It aims at work, the right to work, labour rights, opening up the way for mass redundancies. This is done - and I am finishing - with the explicit provision for indefinite suspension of contracts of employment and non-payment of remuneration to incomplete staff in the public and private sectors. This is the regulation, a regulation which will also be incomplete, since it will not be possible to implement it in practice. In any case, this regulation shows your logic, your mentality and especially the authoritarian nature of your policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u214	Thank you, Mr Papaliou. The Deputy Minister of Justice, George Kotsira, is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u215	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I should first of all like to refer to the draft law which is currently being discussed in the Greek Parliament, and because its substance and the main axes on which it is based, because a good, coherent and solid effort has been made to create a framework for the Court of Auditors and the committee responsible, and from the work carried out by the Ministry of Justice, as well as from the work carried out in the relevant parliamentary committee. And I must acknowledge that in the committee it has become a balanced dialogue, with proposals, with specific issues that have been raised. It was recognised by almost all the parties of the Greek Parliament that the need for this regulation and the urgent need to codify legislation, but also the substance of the matter, namely that here we have a sound draft law serving the purposes for which the Court of Auditors has been appointed by the Constitution to move forward and to exercise its dual role, namely both the audit and the judiciary. In addition, however, we must stress that it is also a response to some reproach that we have heard about how the government safeguards the role of the Court of Auditors, because in the democracies the executive and the legislator safeguard the role of such a serious institution - such as the Court of Auditors - and legislation. And this government has brought two bills to the vote, both Law No.4700/2020 and the legislation under assessment and now under review, which, in the first place, ensures and sets the foundations for the judicial part of the Court of Auditors and the current bill makes very important the axes on which the Court of Auditors' audit piece must be based, because there is now a condensed version of the legislation both in terms of what it has to do with one of the two roles as well as the other. We are therefore achieving consistency in the arrangements between them, adapting the existing arrangements to the newer data of case law, but also to the legislative data that has been created throughout this period. We fill in the legislative gaps and upgrade the cooperation of the Court of Auditors with Parliament. They are objectives and aims which are achieved and which bring about substantial institutional additions to such a sensitive issue, such as public money control. And here, then, is the answer to what the Government is doing to strengthen the Court of Auditors: it encodes, closes gaps, strengthens the institutional environment and achieves what the Minister, Mr Chiaras, has said many times, that we are creating an institutional environment, a legal environment, on which we can build a better working environment for the justice of the future. And because the Constitution provides for and gives the Court of Auditors these important powers, it is our law that we are consistent with the constitutional requirements and with respect to the institution whose procedures we regulate. It is therefore consistently defined that harmonisation between international authorities and rules and ethical maps is guaranteed, that the division of competences is guaranteed. There is - in my opinion - a provision which is extremely institutionally important for replacing the budgetary responsibility regime. It has also been put to the committee, and I think it is one of the essential additions to this draft law, because a different system of budgetary responsibility is introduced based on the principles of proportionality and fairness, and in this context the responsibility will now be linked to the legal tasks of each of the institutions involved in the chain of production with budgetary implications, and before that each allocation will be required to weigh the factors necessary to ensure that the final application is carried out, based always on proportionality and fair balance. This solved a matter which had also been dealt with in the legal act, had been reflected in the case-law of the Court of Auditors and we are now in charge of regulating it now and avoiding in the future cases where we will have unnecessary legal actions in the courts, unnecessary suffering of the parties involved, but at the same time we will also strengthen the institutional gravity of the institution itself. Digital technology is also introduced into the audit procedures both for checking the reliability of the information systems of the audited and for carrying out audits by the Court of Auditors. In this way, we are in line with technological data and the use of technological data for the benefit of the institution itself and its own audited. So there is a balance now in the framework to create a legislative environment that is modern, reforming, which respects the important twofold role of the Court of Auditors. This is what is done with this bill, so the Court of Auditors is protected, so one of the three highest courts in the country is protected, so that it operates rationally, with specific powers, without any provisions of any kind whatsoever, without any contradictions to the legislation. This is how the Government respects the Court of Auditors' institution, which in turn controls everything that has to do with the exercise of public authority over what has to do with the financial part. This modernises the justice system, strengthens the tools of technology and ultimately improves the effectiveness of the framework of the Court of Auditors. I would like to refer here to the amendment to speed up pensions, as a matter of procedure is resolved, so that cases pending beyond the three-year period - clearly referred to in the amendment by the Ministry of Justice - may be brought by the President of the competent department to be tried by a five-member composition which meets in a council. In other words, with a procedural provision, we are taking a step backwards which is time-consuming and which is related to sensitive issues, such as those set out in the amendment, namely pensions. This concludes with the Ministry of Justice's amendment, with the legislative improvements mentioned by the Minister earlier and takes into account the positions and bodies and rapporteurs of the parties, which have been mentioned in detail and now we have a comprehensive, coherent and solid draft law. To conclude, Mr President - and so as not to abuse the time provided for - I would like to make a reference to the issue raised today in relation to vaccination. I sincerely have been trying since this morning, listening to SYRIZA colleagues in particular, to understand what the position of Officerial Opposition is on this issue, because here we are in a national battle, we are in the middle of a huge effort to persuade society to be vaccinated, to convince our fellow citizens to move forward in this critical process, which is the necessary condition for freedom and return to normality, and I do not hear a clear position. I hear blurred views, I hear contradictory views. Ladies and gentlemen, they said that the Committee on Bioethics called for an escalation of the measures - which have been achieved to be escalated, I would remind you that this entire period of escalation is the attitude of the Greek Government - and at the same time, while calling for an escalation of the measures themselves, state in advance why we have not brought compulsory vaccination from the beginning. In other words, here we are faced with a fundamental contradiction that demonstrates the strategic deficit and the inability to address the Greek society rationally. Let us leave diversification, reasoning disappears. So here we also have references to constitutional rights. Really, people who are intensive, do not have rights in the structures and are at risk of the non-vaccination of people who care for them? Does the Constitution not provide that in cases of conflicts of rights there is a weighting in order to achieve the necessary limitation of one another? Is there a higher right than protecting the lives of people, our vulnerable fellow citizens, who are in this kind of workplace to which the amendment refers? [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] Is there respect for proportionality when we first try to promote the protection of these vulnerable fellow citizens? What violation, then, of the Constitution and of the constitutional provisions are you referring to? I repeat that our vulnerable fellow citizens in these areas have no rights? So the Constitution has given its answers, the constitutional theory has given its answers. The Greek Government has a clear position, does not fish in blurred waters. With full respect for the rights of all citizens, it is making an escalating effort to combine persuasive measures in order to achieve the desirable result that is the wall of immunity for the Greek society. And in this national battle, it is necessary that we all have clear positions. Because, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, I would like to say that, unfortunately, your position is more prominent in the pure position of the Greek Solution, with which we are totally opposed than in the position expressed by Mrs Giannakopoulos this morning and which was a clear position in favour of compulsory vaccination. That is not what I know if it is particularly concerned at the internal level, but it certainly creates the wrong messages in society, which I do not think we will find in front of us, because society will follow the clean path that the government has been choosing for all this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u216	And now the parliamentary representative of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Athanasios Pafilis will follow, and then we will continue with the speakers via Webex, with Mr Constantinidis first. Here you go, Mr. Paphie, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u217	As far as the Court of Auditors is concerned, I am not going to say anything, and I am going to analyse them in general and in specific articles by our rapporteur, Maria Konnakas. Of course we didn't get any answers. However, I would like to make a note. This speed of so-called'modernisation', we say in a reactionary direction - and so it is - is not random, as is the changes that are taking place in the economy as well as everywhere. They are the modern requirements of capital in the post-crisis phase of the recovery phase to increase its profitability. That's the point. In fact, even justice enters the prerequisites, enters the Pissaridis report as an important factor. For what purpose? But they say it openly: to facilitate investment and investors. Now there may be some other bureaucratic reasons and others. As far as Mr Kotsira is concerned, I do not know if you have heard 'blue' views, but after hearing 'blue' views, other than the Change Movement, which he agrees with you, I would like to say that he has heard an even clearer view that does not agree with you. This is the view of the JRC, which has not been bothered by any Minister in answering the issues we have raised. We therefore do not vote for this amendment and the bill as a whole. We are not voting for this because, first of all, I will say a number of reasons - it is a link in the unacceptable and dangerous policy pursued by the government in the policy of individual responsibility for the treatment of pandemic. And now, taking out the mandatoryity of vaccines, he is trying to hide what he has not done all this time, despite the fact that the JRC, the health workers and the labour movement had made concrete proposals on the misery of the ESS, on the understood public sector as a whole, on the almost non-existent primary health care, on the lack of effective information on vaccines and vaccinations, on the contradictory locations and measures that leave people exposed to pandemics. Of course, let's not talk about the rest, like the hospitals that you've made in hospitals, so some people are already dying, because they couldn't get in and face their chronic problems. Instead of discussing what you need to do now that you have not done before, you move your fingers on the people, on the workers, and you actually say 'or you are inoculated' - and do not just focus it on the sensitive health groups, because it concerns all workers in the private and public sectors - 'or you are fired' or, anyway, to say it softer, you are giving the right to businesses to fire them. So let's see what you're saying. I'll repeat what George Lambroulis said. We have used out all the information measures for workers in sensitive units - and I say so to get time - and now we will have to bring them in. But the workers themselves, but also the organisations, they say, you really did nothing. On the contrary, there have been recurring, contradictory positions and measures that have reproduced fear and against vaccines, and against quarrels and hesitancy. And of course there are some who are the ones who call them "sprayed" or "territorial" or "antibodies", but most of the world is not like that. It has serious doubts about competition between companies against vaccines. All this has created a phobia. Greece is actually a small village. People know other people who died. That's why there's not enough explanations, so these fears have been created. Therefore, a serious information, analytical and scientific work had to be carried out for both scientists and the people and those who find it difficult. And I will now tell you a few specific examples. As regards the vaccine of AstraZeneca, they said that the first vaccine could have a thrombosis. So someone was wondering 'to make the second dose?' However, no one takes responsibility. Half the people say 'yes' and the other half say 'no'. But that's broadcast, it's out. So, you must have a serious briefing. We do not say that vaccines have no side effects, all may have, but this is a special case here. Secondly, with regard to the staff of the health establishments, the care facilities of the elderly and others, we say that they must be vaccinated, both for their own good and for the health of the vulnerable. That's something we're talking about. But what does this have to do with the transmission of the pandemic? And here you don't talk. Aren't you ashamed? Is it possible to have three thousand cases a day with even 40% of the population vaccinated? You're not saying anything about that? Why? Who is to blame for this big proliferation that now takes a course up and we don't know where it's going to stop? So what did you do in public transport? Tell us what you're doing today too. Nothing! It's a criminal responsibility! One's on the other! And it's not that not everyone wants to be vaccinated, but too many didn't make it. Third, what did you do in the workplace? Last time Mr Chrysochoidis told us that we were doing thirty thousand controls. And I asked him this: tell us how many fines did you put on the employers who don't check? None! Not even one! Fourth point. What do you have to tell the Greek people about the opening of tourism with indicative tests, not all of them? How suddenly did the entire wave of the islands rise, where we mostly have tourism? That's why you don't have to talk! Cuveda! Why? Because they take the interests of the big-time owners, shipowners, and so on. Therefore, do not put forward the places where the world is sensitive, such as these sensitive elderly health units, MEDI units and others as a mask, to hide what is behind it. Why don't you say anything here? Because they are the interests of capital. Fifthly, you say that anyone who does not have a certificate - which will show not to the doctor of work, where there are working doctors, but to the supervisor - will not have a job, will be suspended. "Suspension" means you don't get paid even for a year. You leave no room at all, nor do you make it clear that he will return to work. You say it anywhere? You're saying anywhere he's going to go back to work, someone who gets vaccinated on the last or the last day? You say that somewhere? Oh, no! It's a gift, and that's why some are rubbing their hands. In fact, you are now saying here that vaccination is compulsory - to see the hypocrisy, that is, the class mark your policy has - to all public and private workers. Yes! Why didn't you say and say that the controls on business are compulsory? Why didn't you punish businessmen? We have told you infinite examples that have become hell in factories, saying 'if you say we have a coronary, we will kick you out'. Why didn't you come after them? So here's what's going on. So now the Minister who has just spoken - we say - and we challenge you, there are no one here in health, but these are general issues - to clarify our position to hear the clear position, Minister, which you have not heard or noticed. I do not blame you, because you said 'blue'.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u218	We talked about SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u219	For SYRIZA, say what you want, but they're not all "blue" in here. You said that the only ones who are not "blue" are the Change Movement, that is, what is in agreement with you. So I say that we regard vaccines as a conquest of humanity and science and have - I will say them to hear them from the Greek people - proven results in the reduction or elimination of infectious diseases. Ensuring early and general vaccination within the framework of a state health system for all people's needs is also a need for the people's right - because many games have been played with companies and multinationals, I do not want to open up any more issues now - and its security must be the sole responsibility of the state. As the necessary vaccination does not replace other measures to protect public health, even if we assume that all other measures necessary to protect public health are taken, there is in no way a need for vaccination. We tell you so that you can figure out at least what the dialectic position and the right position are, that he wants both and that if he's one of the two, he's lazy. Let me say it like that, in simple language, so people can understand. That is why we say - not to say too much - that both sides need it. We also need to upgrade the national health system as a whole, recruitment etc. We'll talk about it in particular, and George Lambroulis said it. He wants recruitment, he wants development of primary health care. And you, your god, after the pandemic, what do you say? Close hospitals, etc. Why are you doing this? To push private health around the world as far as it can, because those who cannot be in line and die some and others will be sick all the time because they will not be able to pay in a lame health system. We therefore make it clear first of all that what we are as a party and what we believe has proved to be practical. Let one come out - where is Mr. Kaklamanis? He's not here to say that the JRC has not complied with all the measures. Come to Asturias. You saw what happened to the Daymare. You saw the protests, our own powers. As far as we at the conference were concerned, 92% were vaccinated with both doses and 8% were with one dose, but it had been quite a while. And everywhere in our party, etc. They don't fit that kind of concept or they never broke up. But at the same time, we didn't shut up. Because that's what you asked not to talk because we have the pandemic. And what did you do? You've spent a lot of heavy bills about people's lives. We say, then, that it must be combined - and I will repeat this to the Minister who says that we are saying 'blue' - with the full, free coverage of all people's needs in medical care as the obligation of the state and of the government and not as the individual responsibility of the people. Understood? Is it clean? Or should I say more folk? So, in our view, the debate now on compulsoryity is an unsatisfactory, unstable, harmful one and will bring new problems. We, before this debate was opened - because it has now been opened - and we have repeatedly said it and we, and to a large extent the sanitary, have both scientists and top-level scientists, who may not be communists, but with whom we are working together, we hear their opinion, take account of their comments and submit our proposals. We say, therefore, that a universal public programme of free vaccination with all effective and safe vaccines. Clear instructions to make use of increasingly enriched scientific data and on the basis of medical evidence to carry out vaccination with the appropriate vaccine. Are you doing this? Oh, no. We also propose: Free full medical screening before vaccination and safeguarding for those who have to be excluded that there will be no consistency or discrimination. People who have some diseases that are affected or may be affected by the vaccines will pay their head hair to enter the line, you will make an appointment after three months to tell them whether they should do so or whether they should be excluded. Full information, daily, on the available data, on the course of vaccinations and new scientific data. Upgrade and staff primary health care and control and pharmacovigilance centre, with constant monitoring of vaccines for early intervention in any side effects. Who's going to do the timely intervention? The hospitals that are full? Until anyone goes there sometimes it's too late. Are you doing this? What are you doing in primary health care? You're running her? The opposite happens. You get doctors and you send them to the vaccination centers, and it's a felony of a world. And then you say, "Why does he have fears?" He tells you, if anything happens to me "I'll go like a dog in the vineyard" as we say in our areas, Mr. Chiara. We also propose: Vaccine campaign, exhaustive information and answers to the existing questions. Understood? Is it clean? Or is everyone going out and saying contradictory things? He wants an information strategy to be persuaded - there are some who will not be persuaded - rather than put another gun to his head and say to him 'or one or the other'. Especially for the professional groups in question - we have said so again - that there should be targeted information. It's a different problem. And we in the world live and talk every day. There are top scientists who are not negative, but have some reservations about how quickly the vaccine came out, etc. You know all this. We have to convince them, but we can hear them. This world to convince him wants a skilled job. And finally, say what we suggested again, that if there are any people who don't turn their heads, especially in hospitals, even though 90% of them have been vaccinated, why should they leave? Let's go to other places where, anyway, they're not dangerous for transmission. There are too many jobs and too large gaps. Recruitment of permanent staff, retirement of the private sector. And others say "cheque" but on payment and improper payment, doubling, when you did little. That is not only the ICUs, it is to get into the national health system and take nothing but the wages of the workers. When you say I have a war, you make a mandatory order and you put them there. How do you testify to workers very easily on strikes? Is that the same? Thousands of people die here, that's where they don't die. There may be problems in the economy. Of course there will be. When will he make the strike? When the employer doesn't produce? That's where you're ordering it, that's where you're not doing it. We also propose that State funding should be strengthened and that measures should be taken to tackle media co-existence. What are you doing about it? Go to the subway in peak hours, go to the bus stops. What about training? How will he open in September? Will it open? Two years, the universities are closed. The eyes of the students have become square and you come out and you are now teasing them with the monster law you bring. Are you doing this? You don't. And the other countries are invoked, I mean by the Euroligers here as a whole, who have gods. SYRIZA is included in them first - first - first - looking to find any examples to say that the European Union is good and bad, the government of Mitsotakis and New Democracy. It is bad, but it does what the European Union itself does. It's all the same. If something very big stayed out of this pandemic, and you'll know, it's the total bankruptcy of the barbarism of capitalism. All the health systems you needed, Sweden, Britain, etc., collapsed. They died millions of people who could have been saved because they dominate profit, competition, because they are in the hands of capital and medicine and vaccines and all that human life does not care about. It's only interesting when it's a profit. That is why we call on the workers as a whole, regardless of what they vote and others, to think very well throughout this period and to bow to the overthrow of the system, to another system that has a centre on man, not the profits and interests of the pluto-states of the earth.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u220	We continue with Mr. Efstathios Constantinidis from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u221	Minister, Secretary-General, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law to be adopted is structured into three sections and eighty-six articles refer to the dual character of the Court of Auditors, its task, its institutional independence and the harmonisation of its functioning with international standards. A description of its judicial, auditing and advisory powers and its institutional cooperation shall be provided. The number of posts of judges and judges and the possibility of obtaining external associates shall be determined. It defines the specific formations, units and services thereof, the allocation of powers and the treatment of issues of more general interest by Parliament. Relations with the Greek Parliament and the presentation of the annual control programme are described. The conditions for auditing the accounts, balance sheet and other financial statements of the State and the accounts of the State shall be laid down. In particular, there is provision for the consultation procedure in pension bills, the independence of the Court of Auditors, the integrity, effectiveness and proportionality of its audits, the operation of an information system for the management of controls is regulated and the institutions, types, stages, procedures and planning of the various audits carried out are specified. Furthermore, the status and content of the monitoring of public accounting and the bodies carrying out it shall be regulated and the terms of accountability. In other provisions, the control of the revenues of the general public, of the ATTs and of their legal persons shall be carried out, the responsibilities of the officials who... (it was not heard because of a misconnection) in debt collection, but also in the procedure to delete debts to the State, the definition is given... (not heard due to misconnection) of deficits, the responsible... (it was not heard because of misconnection) persons and any co-responsibility and the measure of responsibility of everyone, as well as the issues of...(it was not heard because of a bad connection). The reported and other specific provisions of the first section shall constitute the... (a) the Court of Auditors did not hear because of a misrepresentation of the Court of Auditors, on... (It has not been heard because of a poor connection) Article 372 of Law 4700 which we voted on in 2020, thus creating a modern, uniform and coherent framework for the functioning of our Supreme Financial Court. But there are additional provisions in the second section...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u222	Mr. Constantinidis, because there is a technical problem and there are vacations, it is recommended that you close the video here so that we can hear you then. There have been repeated holidays, so your phrases are off. Please do a little bit of trouble, close the video. We won't see you, but we'll hear you. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u223	I said, therefore, that the mentioned and other specific provisions of the first section constitute the organic law of the Court of Auditors, for which Article 372 of Law No 4700 was reserved for us in 2020, so that a uniform and coherent framework for the functioning of our highest budgetary court is now established. However, there are additional provisions in the second section of the Rules of Procedure, whereas the third section deals with other relevant financial matters. No one, I think, other than the Communist Party of Greece has questioned the necessity, but especially the quality.... (It didn't sound because of a bad connection). This is why some reservations were expressed from his cross-party acceptance in the fertile dialogue that has evolved in the preparation of the project, which were adopted by the Minister to the extent that they were founded, particularly on the question of control over the finances of professional associations of public law, in evidence of government tolerance to good and creative criticism. However, apart from the main body of the draft law, today's debate deserves a special reference to the amendment number 996 on the best use, management, support and control of the recovery and durability mechanism of this critical tool for the development of our country, the amendment, number 997, which provides for the possibility of retroactive payment to the ELGA of State subsidies for 2011 to 2017, for the purpose of serving its purposes, while in relation to the severe ice-cream phenomena that hit the areas of my country, between them and my place, the Regional Unit of Kozani, the amendment provides for the possibility of compensation for 100% of the insured value of production, the payment of 40% to farmers, the compensation for crops at a pre-basic stage, but also for the workers in ELGA to accelerate the whole process. Unfortunately, this year will be very difficult for Greek producers because of the extreme weather phenomena, and that is why the government's immediate response is very critical. Special attention is needed for secondary damage to bad weather, especially to cooperatives which, in addition to production, are also affected by the loss of production in their manufacturing and commercial part. Amendment No 998 on speeding up the procedure to the Court of Auditors, which seeks to resolve the problem of some 100 000 outstanding cases, mainly pensions, by providing that cases beyond three years may be brought into office and avenged by the Chamber on a council, which will bring about the speeding up of the procedure. The current government has declared war on the pension outstandings that at administrative and judicial level hold hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens hostage and will win it. Amendment No 999 on compulsory vaccination of certain categories of workers in health and welfare structures, namely, at places where services are provided to substantiated our citizens, given the conditions of the particularly increased transmission of the coronary mutations, the urgent need for the smooth functioning of public and private activities, is a balanced regulation that respects individual rights in the application or non-implementation of a medical act and serves at the same time the obligation of the State to protect public health. The state's obligation is to build a firewall for society from the pandemic and enable every citizen to be immediately behind it. Anyone who for his own reasons insists on standing outside the wall and exposes himself to the danger cannot be required to expose to it the health, work and life of his fellow humans. Anyone sitting on the wall closes eyes on both sides undermines the national effort. Finally, I would like to refer to the programme co-financed by the Deputy Minister of State, Mr Kotsiras, on the practice of lawyers, judges and prosecutors of the country. This is important action both for candidate lawyers who acquire knowledge and experience from court practice, but also for host organisations that are supported by young scientists. I therefore congratulate the political leadership for the implementation of the programme, which I mentioned at a meeting of lawyers and Minister Tsiara. We therefore vote on the draft law and the amendments introduced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u224	Thank you, Mr. Constantinidis. We must now give Mr Giola Ioannis the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u225	Thank you, Mr President. I will not be able to avoid a few words on the subject of the contested amendment, the obligation to vaccinate. And that, because of a large portion of the Members of the Couple, it sounded arrogant and demagogic speech and strangely, their fires have turned against SYRIZA for allegedly blurred positions, whereas in fact, ladies and gentlemen, I must remind you that it is your New Democracy and your Government that has undermined the collective national effort, with the ambiguity, ambiguity, retreat, mammothism in the tactics of dealing with pandemic. You are the one who has not tried with persuasiveness and mildness and not with consumables and auras, to appeal to the citizens and to convince them. You have not carried out home vaccinations of vulnerable, vulnerable and over-aged people for seven months. And we are talking about the most vulnerable are the people of this quality and that of over seventy years of age. You're the one who cultivated walnuts hopes of vaccination coverage at 70% from the beginning of the summer. You are the one who tolerated the battle of the multinationals, who have created and caused impressions, doubts and questions to the citizens. You had not protected the transmission to the islands and other tourist sites, at any time creating adequate quarantine spaces and hotels. We saw it, we watched it by the press children dodge and spend the night in a parking lot and open space. Finally, after you had exhausted these measures in cooperation with the Bioethics Committee, you could have extended voluntary vaccination. Then you would have won the bet, as the Greek people would have won it, and you would have protected the whole of it decisively, but not only the Greek citizens, but also the guest foreigners and tourists. But now, because we should not reduce the importance of the organic law of the Court of Auditors and the related regulations, I would like to say that this bill is the result of systematic work in which, as we have said at the outset, we could not say otherwise. However, there are some comments and thoughts that at least I can present for myself, since I did not participate in the Committee on Public Administration. The first point, therefore, is the need for additional staffing in both numerical and qualitative terms. It was also stressed, as I saw from the representatives of the judges, the need to recruit university and technological training staff in addition to, or at least to, the completion of, the organic IC and compulsory education posts, which are empty, since you could easily change the establishment plan. With these necessary recruitments, at the same time, the problematic introduction of the external partners, for whom they have also been expressed by many institutions of serious concern. The necessary corrections to the initial control of legal persons in the form of a body - I mean the professional associations of doctors, lawyers, pharmacists, etc. - and I hope, since we have not reached our hands on at least those who are not in Parliament this particular legislative improvement or amendment. I don't know how he's coming. I will then stand by the President's duties and powers, and without wishing to raise or question his authority and authority, first of all, I believe that he is responsible for procedures provided for, for example, in Article 31(a) and (g) of the prerogatives, which are certain to be borne by a large number of responsibilities, which may make his work difficult or delay. Moreover, some of his initiatives, such as general supervision of the conference's judicial, auditing and advisory work and the selection of major issues, would be easier to process, would be more effective to carry out jointly with some in the number, two or four with the President - so a single number - of the oldest Vice-Presidents. Thus, concentrating phenomena and possible distortions, oligories or delays could be avoided as a result of this. I think we can begin with and dare to adopt such measures by giving up a more collective and democratic form of administration. Such a choice could also be made in the duties of the General Commissioner of the Territorial, as deleted in Article 36, which introduces exclusively matters on which the consent or opinion of the Conference is sought, and most of all, it should make references, applications or complaints for which, as a single person now, it considers that they are unacceptable, legally or in fact unfounded. In these prerogatives of the Commissioner-General, I believe that his exclusive intervention can be taken, indicating solutions for their collective exercise. Taking on the basis of the Court of Auditors' competence, established by Rule 54 to inform Parliament of serious issues relating to budgetary sustainability, I must note the following to amuse impressions that were attempted by another portion. It is not the Court of Auditors that takes the decisions on how to repay public debt or on the percentage covered by public security and on the level of the State burden from long-term armaments programmes. It is the executive power that makes these decisions. With the Court of Auditors' decision, however, this report, which is therefore from an independent judicial authority which provides additional credibility and validity, is not rare, since, unfortunately, it is not rare that its findings and communications are safer and more reliable in relation to the provisional assessments of other service authorities that are differentiated over time - see ELSTAT - and much more so on the one hand, and on the other hand, the interpretations of the Bank of Greece, which want to see the economic situation in its own perspective. I think the courts provide a more accurate, reliable and reasonable valuation of things. I will continue to make some other points which, in my opinion, have errors or imperfections and can be corrected. The findings of the checks carried out following a complaint or a request by a citizen shall not be made mandatory by the body in accordance with the draft law to be notified to anyone who submitted them in accordance with Article 7(2). [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] As there is no question of protecting personal data, and in view of the fact that the seeker of judicial audits has a direct legitimate interest in knowing the relevant finding, I think that he should be given an obligation to inform him about this and not as a potential one. The Court of Auditors is right to check the effectiveness of the internal control system of the audited body. My question is how and what cases of internal controls come into being and are controlled by this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u226	And finish, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u227	One or two minutes, Mr President. I will not be any longer than other colleagues. A group shall also have the question which arises in cases where the Court of Auditors makes recommendations and in accordance with Article 96 thereof, subsequently monitors the compliance of stakeholders with them. How is it ensured if, in fact, this is achieved? Another point to be made is that no matter how much the Commissioners who control detention shops in the field of detecting mismanagement, abuse, waste or corruption may do their job perfectly - and we believe that - they are not the most competent to monitor the living conditions of the detainees, as the relevant article says. Some other scientists must have the first say in this regard. Furthermore, a vague act shall, at least to me, be deemed to be the case of the chargeable act which, in accordance with Article 149, fully ensures the rights of defence of the accused. I think that the explanatory statement and a description of the rights involved, such as call for hearing, need to include the relevant article within a certain time limit.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u228	Good, Mr. Giola. Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u229	My last point, Mr President, or suggestion is the case of the indicative list of cases recognised as legitimate operational costs of the TAs in the last Article 181. This description lists in particular the costs of feeding, clothing, housing and the supply of medicines. It will be appropriate, in order not to reduce any other essential social rights already provided by OTAs, to include medical treatments and examinations, as well as students' care centres. Many municipalities in the country have been founded and operate social hospitals, workshops and social care centres, which will be a shame not to be recognized as legitimate expenses and to be deprived of by those who really need them. Thank you, Mr President, for the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u230	Thank you very much. The reason is now Mrs. Evangelia Lykoulis from the Change Movement for seven minutes. To begin with, not from the unpleasant always, we have the pleasant, a very great success, of Giannis Antetokonbo, who carried an entire group on his back, the Bucks. It became the first issue yesterday. The conquest of the championship led this success, after fifty years, to the most brilliant basketball institution of NBA. This is unbelievable when one thinks that all this has been done by a poor, but talented child, a family of migrants, please, of a family of biopalests from Sepolis, the neglected Sepolis, he conquers the top of the world. So our pride - to mention it today in Parliament on this occasion - and the admiration for the great soul of this man, who has managed to start in this way, to go otherwise and to get there. Of course, I mention this today, Mr President, in Parliament, because it is justified with this, and the remembrance of many of us for the children who have reserved for Antetocounbo, the Prime Minister, the Ministers, many New Democracy MPs, who, as it is well known, in their vote last year in the relevant bill of the Ministry of the Interior, have made it even more difficult for thousands of fellow citizens to return to our citizens, effectively removing the right to naturalisation and thus altering what we have achieved until then. Of course, the blue conservative majority, although generally set by... (It didn't sound because of a bad connection).
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u231	Mrs. Litikoli, you don't sound. If you hear us, you need to open the microphone.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u232	Yes, Mr. President. Although I didn't touch it, it's weird technology... So I was saying that the Blue Conservative majority, now, is very pleased with the New Democracy Government, but when we voted and introduced in Parliament the procedures with which Immigrant families will easily be integrated, such as the Yannis family, unfortunately, we did not see them gleaning in their senses, only now in the bell and applause, then a holiday and then the wrath achieved by this man. In fact, for restoring history and the truth, because I saw yesterday that the government was begging the former Prime Minister in 2013 to give Greek citizenship, he says, I will say that no Prime Minister has such a right. The President of the Republic has this. And Antetokounbo took citizenship under Law 3264/2004, as amended by Law 3638/2010 by Giorgos Papandreou and PASOK. That for restoring the truth, ladies and gentlemen, and you can, of course, continue to applaud, as you can at some point think that all your positions on the performance of citizenship and naturalisation must change, to the government and to the Members who voted the last time that opportunity was given. Let's go to another very big, crucial issue, which we have to deal with again today, pandemic, by means of an amendment that has been tabled. And what other witnesses we need now, since the CEDEFOP itself and the Prime Minister of the CEDEFOP, Mrs Papastergiou, mayor of Trikalons, is calling on the government, by a letter, to listen - listen - to meet even with a teleconferencing conference so that the CEDEFOP can coordinate its municipalities with the Government after calling a week ago to co-exist with the CEDEFOP in the fight to accelerate vaccinations. Imagine that, apart from verbalism, "Come to write and put back on it.", no younger than the front of the government, which forced the president of the CEDC to call for even a teleconferencing conference with the Ministry of the Interior in order to enable them to coordinate their moves and thus to inoculate the world, which has not been convinced, Mr Minister. He's not convinced. Hundreds of millions of euros of Greek taxpayers have been tabled in favour of faith and not for a patronage, i.e. in favour of the public interest. Your campaign has failed. You haven't succeeded in convincing the world. The way you operated the pandemic, the front - back, this freedom you supposedly want to give as a slogan at the beginning of the summer, unfortunately, did not convince anyone. We open Mykonos, we close Mykonos, we reintroduce Mykonos, we close Mykonos and now you have it all openly and you wait for the great miracle, probably from Megalochra, which is on the neighboring island of Tinos. But I don't think much can do with this merciless thing you've seen. Because they're all suspicious now. Unfortunately, while the Change Movement has been in a clear position for three months now, you leave the blurred messages for us, that's none of our business. We have said about the enforceability of vaccinations, which must be accompanied, however, by a campaign of world persuasion on the risks involved, on the way in which it should go, on what it needs to do in order to keep it safe. Unfortunately, you didn't hear us. You said autumn then. You were caught in the fourth wave one more time. You can't handle the situation anymore. At first you were aroused, and then you tried in particular to look at young people, especially young people, and I would ask you, in a totally degrading way, which affects the dignity and honour of young people, and then you resorted to the mandatoryity of vaccinations for special categories, which we agree, but on the one hand you put in and on the other you put work as a punishing measure, but without clarifying how, for whom and for how long. All this, which has also been raised by the rapporteurs for our prolongation, unfortunately, remains to be welcomed as questions and demonstrates the unprecedented curiosity of the government, which leads to its one-way again not to convince itself of the measure of vaccination, which is so necessary for the country, if we care. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] One final word, Mr President, because we also have the amendment concerning the ELGA. We have said again and again, after the effort we made in 2010 to modernise ELGA, that there is still a long way to go. Unfortunately, we in Thessaly and in Larissa, who have measured the wounds of Pharaoh, what 'JANOS', what famines, earthquakes and oppressions have unfortunately seen them all with an anachronistic institution, the institution of ELGA, which has not been able to respond to and lift to the circumstances of the compensation of producers and is not standing alongside, but unfortunately against the producers. It does not help them, and unfortunately many times it makes them unquestionably difficult. I conclude by saying that the Change Movement has once again tabled an amendment on the recognition of heavy and unhealthy for the first time. Who now believes in the plums of the first line of nurses, doctors and health workers, rather than in practice, which the New Democracy Government has unfortunately not adopted? But we've all been taken happily. The people judge, compare and evaluate and mainly remember, because they have no memory of goldfish. So we call on the government to get all this back, which only scare and result at the bottom of the scripture do not have and adopt positions with democracy, justice and reasonableness. That is the only way we can go forward, and that is how we can deal with the difficulties of the time. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u233	Thank you, Mrs. Liikali. We continue with Mr Vassiliou from New Democracy, which is the last speaker. Then Mr Karasmanis, the last speaker in the bill, will follow the seconds of the rapporteurs and special speakers, of those who wish, and will be closed by the Minister. Mr Vasiliade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u234	Thank you, Mr President. I will be very brief in my position on the draft law under discussion. After all, as was seen at the meetings of the committee responsible and today in the debate in plenary, the Legislative Initiative of the Ministry of Justice is, in the first instance, considered positive in the right direction. This is a new, integrated, institutional framework for the organisation of the Court of Auditors. Having passed both levels of local government, I can assure you that the proper functioning of the Court of Auditors is a fundamental prerequisite for the normal day-to-day life of the OTAs and of the general public. We must, as legislative authority, support the institutions of justice and in this respect the body we are discussing today. After all, confidence in the institutions and their preservation are a sovereign value for the great conservative party of the New Democracy. Already with Law No 4700/2020, we have made progress on the necessary changes that the current framework for the judicial function of the Court of Auditors has so far been in place, leaving the Court of Auditors unresolved. Today, with the experience of the months that have taken place, both on the part of the Ministry of Justice and the judicial officers, the accelerated Ministry recommends a new organic law, which collects all the diffuse provisions and regulates all matters of organisation, operation, procedures and control. I know the special relationship between information and cooperation, which is founded between the Court of Auditors and the Greek Parliament. I think that, following the extensive debate that was preceded by the ladies and gentlemen of the House, we can move on to a broad vote on the draft law. Such a move will mark institutional support between executive and legislative power on the one hand and justice on the other, of course, at a time when, unfortunately, confidence in the institutions of our society is unjustly questioned. I therefore call on the House to vote in favour of this. Allow me, on this point, Mr President, to refer to the amendments which have been tabled, since I think that their importance must be demonstrated. I should first like to refer to the amendment by the Ministers for Health and Finance with a general number of 999 and a specific number of 84, which relates to the mandatory vaccination requirement in specific professional categories. We need to stress once again that we are not done with the pandemic. CIVID -19 is still here. He threatens human lives and remains as a shadow over the economy and society, which tries to retreat after a very difficult year. The mass vaccination and building of the immunity wall is a one-way road to this battle. There is an individual responsibility towards each other and for the fellowman to protect his or her health and related, but, at the same time, there is the responsibility of the state to protect all those who for various reasons cannot be vaccinated. This legislative initiative, therefore, seems to me to be right. First of all, however, it is necessary. Personally, I have recently completed my vaccination, having been delayed because of the age group I am in, but also because of the preparation, which required greater distance between the first and second doses. I must admit that the feeling of freedom that everyone feels as soon as they leave the vaccination centre, as I did from the Edessa Health Centre, did not expect it. We pick up our sleeves, then, and we take our lives really back. I referred to the difficult year of last year because of the pandemic. However, this year, we experienced in many parts of our country an unprecedented and disastrous natural phenomenon, that of last spring's ice cream, who left behind disasters in agricultural crops and a loss of income for our producers. With the amendment of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food, with a general number of 997 and a specific number 82, the way for compensation for damages is opening. This legislative initiative provides, inter alia, for the retroactive grant of the ELGA for the years 2011 to 2017 in order to obtain the liquidity needed for compensation per parcel up to 100% of the insured value of production. This process, although it had been passed for a decade - perhaps even more - was first implemented by the Government of Mr Mitsotakis last year. Today he comes to do the same, and with retroactive character. There is also provision for payment of up to 40% of the estimated compensation, which, it seems, will begin at the end of July, with the liquidations being completed in the same year. In addition, if approved by the European Commission, they may be included in advances and crops that were initially and outside the ELGA Regulation. This is how the commitment from the first moment, both to the Minister, Mr Lebanese and to the Prime Minister, is being implemented for fair and rapid compensation. We heard those who talked about the need for a process beyond normality. This is exactly what the primary sector now needs, which was so severely hit this year by this extreme natural phenomenon. The preparation of a plan to support the primary sector of enterprises, cooperatives, producer groups, permanent and seasonal workers has already been launched by a committee. Especially in Pella, in many local communities, loss of production reached 100%. In the next few days, as the Ministry and the Agency has announced, it will explain how the advances are to be paid, without farmers having to take any further action. We therefore understand, ladies and gentlemen, the importance of both these amendments and those of the others that have been tabled. Mr President, I would therefore ask the House to vote in favour of the amendments as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u235	Thank you, Mr. Vasiliadis. The last speaker, George Karasmanis, has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u236	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, due to a lack of time, I will concentrate on the amendment by the Ministry of Rural Development, in which the government's commitments to cover the damage caused by the frosts of 2021 are being acted, but also on the hails that followed. Theories have brought our producers to despair. From the first moment on, both the Minister for Rural Development and the President of the ELGA had assured that there will be a protection net for all affected, with damage personalities and rapid compensation. In fact, there was particular satisfaction that immediately after the catastrophic glacier, the Prime Minister himself, at a parliamentary group meeting, said that he was aware of the extent and size of the disaster and that after the completion of the overall loss assessment all the necessary measures will be taken to support producers. Personally, immediately after the glaciers, and because the cost of damage was well above ELGA's money, from the collection of insurance contributions and in order for the Agency to be able to respond, I have made various proposals, including the labelling of the need to seek additional resources, using Law 3877/2010, not only for the current year, but also for the previous years. Indeed, on the mandate of the Prime Minister, this has now been done. And so, in accordance with Article 1 of the debate on the amendment, after many years, the annual grant to cover operating expenditure is repaid to the ELGA and, in fact, retroactively for 2011-2017 and on the basis of the revenue obtained from the contributions from those producers for those years. This is a measure of significant support for ELGA and also for the producer itself. In the article, however, it should be clarified that this is an annual grant to cover the operational costs of the ELGA, for good reasons. In addition, in the case of income from insurance contributions for the current year rather than the previous year, ‘2010 to 2016’ should be entered ‘2011 to 2017’. Furthermore, it should be noted that L.3877 was passed in December 2010 and its implementation started in January 2011. In Article 2, paragraph 1a is now changing the maximum level of compensation for damage caused by the spring glacier in 2021. Thus, it amounts to 100% of the insured value of production, compared with 80% currently in force. If it is in the right direction, I think it would be fairer for the producer to completely be abolished than the law in force. By paragraph 1b for the first time, ELGA may, after a decision of the Management Board, by 31 October 2021, grant beneficiaries an advance of 40% of the estimated compensation, i.e. the final conclusion. The measure is in the right direction, but it must be clarified that the advances will be made by 31-12-2021 and not that a decision by the board of directors will be taken by 19-10-2021, because the way it is formulated has a double reading. So with the internal electronic platform that will be open, the advances are being disbursed immediately, without the producer doing any action, and I stress this in order to avoid misunderstandings. At the same time, the problem with the insurance contributions of 2021 is overcome. However, it is not the case for those who have suffered damage to their crops which have been in pre-anthic stage, since, in accordance with paragraph 1c of Article 2, they must first be included in a special programme of State financial aid, which will be sent to the European Commission, and this is usually done at the end of the year or at the beginning of the following year. This is the usual practice to date. It should therefore be clarified when the dossier will be sent to the European Commission and how long it is estimated that it will be adopted. I fear that in this case the advances will be late to be given to the affected producers, unless what the President of the ELGA said is in force, that the request has been sent and they are waiting for the European Commission's response to be approved. Either way, we should have the edge of our minds, so I propose that the case should be investigated, if necessary, by those producers who were affected at the pre-anthic initial stage to join the provisions of Law 4797 which we recently voted on, three months ago, and in particular Articles 11 and 12 on natural disasters, so that advances can be given to them more quickly. Finally, among other things, an additional financial incentive is provided to regulate overtime and pay for regular and extraordinary staff, as well as for ELGA correspondents, with the aim of rewarding them for increasing their working time, so as to promote the value-added work as quickly as possible. And it should certainly be on the basis of the amendment that the assessment work should be completed by 31/12-2021. What matters, however, and I have emphasised this many times, is to immediately settle all the outstanding claims relating to damages from previous damages, such as these temporary, final and incorrect statements, due to last year's first hard lockdown due to the pandemic, the chaos that prevailed and which some farmers are not familiar with the Internet. It is of course encouraging that at the last meeting I had last Friday with the President of the ELGA, I was assured that the matter has been resolved and that the final decisions will be taken. I hope they will be entitled to our producers, who are really in a bad economic position. At the same time, the side effects of disasters such as seasonal workers, permanent workers, businesses involved in the marketing and processing of these products must be addressed. Of course, there are proposals from interested parties, such as cooperatives, producer groups, etc., and we need to take them into account. I have repeatedly spoken about the need to strengthen the ELGA with specific realistic proposals. In this context, and through the Recovery Fund and the new NSRF 2021-2027, we should make use of modern technology, all innovations, knowledge and practices, immediately launch a dialogue on the systematic recording and imprinting of the impact of climate change, in order to create a national strategy to address them. Good and sanctuary - as I have said - the compensation of the ELGA, but it is not possible every year to live the same nightmare, crops being destroyed, vegetable capital being lost, agricultural income being destroyed, and products for local consumption, and exports. In other words, we see the collapse of one of the key pillars of our national economy. I'm closing with the amendment and the vaccinations. The government has faced the unprecedented and murderous pandemic with responsibility and success, having put above all protection of human life. All this effort will go hand in hand, it will be lost, if we do not all as a social group with the demands of science, which, in dramatic tones, invites us to be vaccinated. It's the best possible defense against the nightmare right now. It is the most important weapon, and so far we have the only weapon we have to protect ourselves, to shield ourselves, our families, our fellow citizens, our fellow humans, our friends, our entire society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u237	Thank you, Mr Karasmanis, for completing the circle of speakers. We will now give the floor to any of the rapporteurs or speakers who want to give a second answer. The picture we have is that only Mrs Konnaka wants and we will give her the floor and, if there is no one else, we will give the Minister the floor for the closure of the meeting. Mrs Konnakka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u238	Thank you, Mr President. I will not go into his articles and the main body of the Court of Auditors draft law. I think I was one of the few rapporteurs who spoke in detail about my prototype. This also shows the strategic convergence of the other parties, which is often seen in bills that are less glamorous and do not favour opposition. We are not generally speaking vaguely about the modernisation of the Court of Auditors, but about how the checks it will carry out and how it will serve the demands and needs of the Recovery Fund, which is the common assumption of all of you, namely, how you choose, if you like, the budget expenditure on strengthening business groups and not, of course, the costs that favour the people. I would like to refer more to the provisions of Articles 112 et seq. of the Treaty on European Union concerning, in fact, budgetary articles, regardless of the Court of Auditors. In particular, Articles 184 and 185, with which we are opposed, there is, in fact, a distinction between unintended and recoverable debts. That is where we think a distinction should be made with regard to the big time-consuming people, particularly to the insurance funds, and to the small and medium-sized ones, who have really been pissed all this time. Self-employed people are experiencing very great difficulties and they really should and can be further facilitated. However, the majority of the debts to the insurance funds concern large-scale debtors, with debts of more than EUR 1 million, who eventually manage to remain unavoidable of the necessary measures. These are two thousand thirteen debtors, who owe a total of EUR 8.7 billion, namely 23.5% of the total debt to the insurance funds, as is apparent from the official information of the Insurance Centre. In the face of them, there is nothing to stop the embezzlement that actually makes the workers' wages, because that is their insurance contributions. Of course, it is not by chance that the tolerance shown by the governments to them and, ultimately, reaching their discharge and facilitating them to be exempted from the payment of these contributions. On the contrary, it must be the Government's attitude to the micro-processors, and for this reason the JRC has tabled a specific proposal for a law on small self-employed persons of the lowest incomes, who should indeed be relieved and deleted from them part of the interest or all of the interest and increases in their debts, that their debts to banks and the public should be reduced by 30% and that, throughout the period of the crisis, payments of the remaining debts should be frozen, and that, of course, the non-wage costs of their individual contributions to the insurance funds should be reduced. In particular, for the period of the pandemic in which the necessary measures have been implemented, they should not be paid and they should be covered by the State, without reducing their pension rights, and the contribution of the health sector should not be abolished, which should not be paid. I shall now refer only to one of the amendments to which I have not referred, and we have not referred at all, to the amendment on compensation for the Ministry of Rural Development. It is, of course, good that some extra funds are being provided. However, in no case is this enough to cover the actual losses and the total damages, because the compensation is still paid in accordance with the procedures and the philosophy of the ELGA, which, of course, does not ensure that the production infrastructure is fully compensated and under no circumstances fully compensate for the lost income. Even the extra cost of EUR 3,65 million, in particular those related to the spring glacier in 2021, is indeed crustaceans in the face of the size of the disaster, because the compensation is given on the basis of the insured value and not on the basis of the actual value of the production that was destroyed. Of course, the farmers are well aware of this because, even in cases where the maximum premium is paid and not all farmers have the opportunity to pay it, the compensation does not exceed 70% of the actual value of production. Therefore producers remain faced with an ELGA regulation that abolishes any compensation they are entitled to, when they themselves are obliged to pay and pay superb premiums. Even when it comes to advance payments, the 40% rate is very low. The rate of the advance may not be less than 70% of the damage and, of course, the postponement of the payment until 31 October undoes the government's original announcements of an immediate or even advance payment of the damage. In relation to the employees, I want to say a word. They increase the limits of their compensation, but there should be no limits at all. It is characteristic that ELGA, in order to meet its needs, needs to take over more permanent staff, while the needs are enormous and the staff are a little and, finally, it is forced to outsource the work to geotechnic employees of other services to meet the needs, at the same time it dismisses workers, as was done last year with the dismissal of the twelve experienced rural areas. That is why we shall be voting against the amendment as a whole, and we shall vote against the other amendments, based on the criticism we have made in our prototype. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u239	Thank you, Mrs. Konnakka. Minister, you have the floor now to complete the debate on the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u240	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on this bill, which complements previous law, Law No.4700/2020, and with which the Court of Auditors now acquires a completely modern procedure, adapted to the facts of today's reality, has now been completed. And I think that the debate that has taken place, both at committee level and in plenary, at least on the part of the draft law under discussion, once again enabled us to reach agreement on at least a number of key issues - regardless of whether there are other kinds of approaches and is perceived and respected in a democratic parliamentary procedure - but it has demonstrated once again that, at least in bills relating to the Ministry of Justice, Members' comments are always appreciated and, of course, when there is room and when there is room, they are incorporated into the final text of the bill. That is precisely the practice we have followed in this particular debate. I say this because most of the colleagues in the opposition parties have actually raised specific issues which, as I said before at second reading in the debate in the committee on the bill and, of course, you have just seen, were incorporated into the legislative improvements, both in Article 9(5), which was a request from Mr Hatzigiannakis, Mrs Giannakopoulou, the rapporteur for the government party, Mr Kouvela. I think a little - very much all of my colleagues have mentioned in some way that we should look at it at a different glance and, of course, differentiate its wording. I told you that the logic, which has been and prevailed from my side, was not the fear of control, but indeed, in such specific cases, the Court of Auditors had no reason to waste resources, human resources, possibilities, in order to control bodies, clubs, which have a very specific practice and operate in a specific way. And, of course, even other remarks made, such as Mr Hatzigiannakis, on the subject of confidentiality, to which all auditors must be subject, you saw that we incorporated it. Another remark Mr Hetas made and it was incorporated. More generally, I would like to say that it is demonstrated once again that, when there is a positive mood and at least for matters relating to the functioning of justice, we are all here, in order to reconcile the best possible final piece of legislation, which, if anything, I would like to believe that we all expect it will ultimately serve the very function of justice and the Greek society in the best possible way. What we did not talk about, and we did not talk enough about it, was the amendment by the Ministry of Justice, which I think would be worthy, if you would, of more space for almost all the Members who were at the Stephen of this House, because this amendment, ladies and gentlemen, with its four articles, also comes to answer questions which you raised during the debate on the draft law on committees, but above all to heal some other issues, which we know were in general, including the legal world and the plenary. I think it is a very positive step, which should be at least 'positive' acceptance not only in the vote but also in the process of expression.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u241	We are voting in favour of the amendment, but do not bring an amendment... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u242	All right, all right, I get it. We'll talk about all this, Mrs. Giannakopoulos. I'll talk to you all about it. So the amendment by the Ministry of Justice, which - I repeat - should have a greater debate room for discussion for every colleague who was earlier in the Step forward of the House, as I had announced before you, matters of delay were essentially resolved by the Court of Auditors. Any cases that have been completed over the three years, on the sole condition that the private party - 'department' - is able to evolve and move forward. With the second article we are essentially attempting to bring the compensation to the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay, to the General Commissioner of State, to the Court of Auditors and to the General Commissioner of the State of Regular Administrative Courts, who were not at the same fate as all other judicial officers. And, of course, with the third and fourth article, we have been satisfying for a very long time demands made by the plenary of the lawyers. And I think that this is how we show that even in neutral time we can approach issues, issues, problems, which are generally concerned with the area of officials, the contributors of justice, so that we are actually giving a solution to all these issues. The debate was obviously heterogeneous because of the other amendments, and I understand that. However, when there is a key bill, which one is discussing in the Chamber of the Greek Parliament, at least most Members would expect to consume even part of their speech on this bill. I am sorry to say that we have not seen this in this debate. And, of course, I will say some thoughts about the amendment in question, which most of the debate went through. But, before I get there, I would like, ladies and gentlemen, to make reference to something that I believe would be worthy of a really broad debate at least - not just from the Step of this House, but from the general point of view - since you realise that when we have a new report from the European Commission on the rule of law, we must definitely be concerned. And you know, ladies and gentlemen, the two - three colleagues who have dealt with this issue from the Step of the House or have not read it or have not been able to compare it to any of the previous ones or, in any case, have once again given their willingness to oppose a logic which, at least in matters relating to our country and to the functioning of justice, should move in a different direction. So I heard and even saw the awkward - I would say - a joint statement from Mr Xanthopoulou and Mr Arvanitis, and I was really surprised at the fact that they were on a number of issues which, if you look at them in the real report, do not have the last role either. You know, ladies and gentlemen? Perhaps for one single time in recent years the European Commission's report on the rule of law in Greece has been a vote of confidence in the reforms that we have already implemented and for what we are going on in the next few years. And that should be a common assumption. It should not be on a logic 'we found the footnote, the small subject and we left the big one and we do not comment on it at all' because the level of the concept of independence of justice has, in the end, increased in Greece more than the European average. 55% of citizens take the level of independence of justice as good or very good and, of course, this percentage has increased over last year. Business confidence increased to 61%, compared with 53% last year, which, of course, reflects the confidence that now exists in justice in recent years to improve the economic and investment climate. Yes, Mrs. Konnakka, we have contrast. We believe that justice is also a lever for economic development. It is a given reality, which at least not all of the European Community accepts as a basic principle which refers to the rule of law and economic development, but I think that, as far as possible, as you can see, it is obviously the proper, serious functioning of justice that is a real reason for a country to have economic development. And that's something I don't know who and how he could question it. Look, ladies and gentlemen, in the report of the European Union on the rule of law in Greece, reference is made to the imprint of the major reforms carried out in the last two years, such as the setting-up of the special chambers in the courts of the Court of Auditors - which concerned the Court of Auditors' judicial work - and, as I repeat, the digitisation of justice, the establishment of the Office for the Collection of Justice Statistics, the new Code of Justice and, of course, the effectiveness of justice even within the juncture of the pandemic. These are all points on which the report stands and applauds the position and, of course, the choices made by our country in the field of justice. And because you know - it's not just you, Mr. Hatzyannakis, but you will hear it, I have nothing personal and you know it very well - there's a proverb: Critton of speaking is the slow one. Do you know why? Why are the delays in the time of justice - which your colleagues have been singing, not singing from this Step - the issues that the report records, do you know what period they are concerned with? From 2017 to 2019. It's not about the last period. In fact, there is specific mention of the fact that 2019 -- and of course we are talking about the last year of the country's governance by SYRIZA -- delays amounted to six hundred and seventy-seven days, compared with the five hundred and fifty-nine who were in 2018, and the stagnation recorded in the effectiveness of the grade 1 courts is about the works and days of SYRIZA from 2017 to 2019. That is what the report says, and of course I will also put it in the Minutes, if only some Members did not see it or read only the publications that come out - I understand - from the parties offices and others, at least to see and understand what the reality is. Do you know what the matter is, ladies and gentlemen? What the SYRIZA Justice Department forgot to mention - and he is not here all sympathetic and, to say, honourable to me, Mr Xanthopoulou - what he has failed to say, since at the house of the hanged, we must not talk about rope, is the chapter on corruption. Do you know what the gray points of the exhibition relating to Greece have been about Greece for the past period? The new Criminal Code, adopted by SYRIZA, the faulty of active bribery and, of course, the good news is that another government is coming after the elections, and that changes it and it is said in last year's report, and this year's report, they have not forgotten. I say this because I want everyone to agree and understand that, at least in certain circumstances, real data should at least be agreed. And if we want to do - legitimately you will tell me - opposition to all sciences, you realise that the possibility of being exposed is too great and, unfortunately, this is happening. You know, Greece - and here is your contribution, of the previous government, I want to be honest, because we have to accept them all - in recent years has managed to greatly improve its position in the index of international transparency for corruption. And, of course, the last two years have been in the sixteenth place in the European Union. The good course, however, began by the previous government, I will accept that, and I will say it, because at some point we must be honest to ourselves and say things the way they are. For those of course fellow Members who wish to read the European Commission's real report on the rule of law in Greece, I am tabling it in the Minutes, so that you can have the opportunity at any time to look for it and move on to it. [[At this point, the Minister for Justice, Mr Constantine Tsiaras, presents for the minutes the above mentioned report, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This practice, ladies and gentlemen, usually leads us to the wrong approaches. And I am sorry to say this, but unfortunately I have very fresh memories, when almost all of the Anti-Population parties came and denounced me personally, the Ministry of Justice, but also the Government for the framework of the Katseli Act and for the new platform that we adopted, if I remember correctly last December. Have you seen the results? Do you know what's happened? In order to be consistent at least with his own, with his political party and with the citizens he represents - and this concerns all colleagues in the Liberation and Municipality - he must at least say what he claims at a certain point in time to see them confirmed at a future time. Do you know how the Katseli law platform went, Mrs. Giannakopoulou? Forty-nine thousand applications! When you were all talking about blackmail, about a failed process, about a process that would not protect the real beneficiaries, when you were all saying that the government is forcing people to go somewhere and there is no solution, do you know where we are here? We are in a truly successful government choice. And you know why the number went up even more than expectation? Because I want you to understand that, too. I want to be honest, we did not expect it to be more than forty thousand applications, because because because of COVID many of the cases already scheduled, planned cases, to be dealt with, postponed, and the people who were honest, the real borrowers ran into the platform in order to have this protection. This shows that a policy decided a few months ago not only helps speed up the trial of cases identified for the next ten and fifteen years - and otherwise we want to talk about Greece - the rule of law! - but much more they found the real protection through a procedure that was perfectly well defined, leaving no scope for integration of strategic misappropriators into this process. I say this, ladies and gentlemen, because I repeat that we must at some point also see the consistency of what we are supporting and, of course, how this is demonstrated in a future year. Mr. Hatzigiannakis, you insulted me because I replied to the press release Mr. Xanthopoulou made. If I didn't, you'd tell me why I didn't answer. Now that I'm answering, you told me why I answered. And of course, I will make it specific: e - Justice, digital justice. Do you want to put a series of projects, results, programming and thoughts back to what has happened so far? I'm willing to repeat it if you want, and I'm going to have to do it. You come here and say that HCDDA - PP1 is a project of SYRIZA's governance. Yes, sir. When did the FP1 start implementing? In 2015. From virginity, did SYRIZA come through the SYRIZA SYRIZA SYRIZA SYRIZA? Wasn't it prepared and work done by a previous government? I say all this because I am one of those who say that in general the Greek state, the Greek state, must have a continuity and everything that is positive from a previous governance, obviously, must be the basis on which it will be based and any choice, in order to continue to reform and modernise the Greek state. We're coming to today. Because if we want to see how far digitalisation has gone from 2015 to 2019, I think the records say, more or less, specific things. Do you want me to remind you today how much further they have been incorporated, implemented and programmed in the direction of so-called 'digital justice', in the direction of e-justice? Because, ladies and gentlemen, we must be honest with ourselves. The next day is a different day when evolution, technology and, of course, the digital era also comes in the field of justice, which must be accepted not as a legislative development, but as a real need, which is dictated by a reality that is constantly evolving, but also by a reality that must accept all the progress of progress and technology if it wants to be more efficient, more effective and more effective for the justice system as well as for the citizens themselves. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] So, in order to put them in a row, we have managed to integrate a truly large set of digital works into the Recovery Fund. And here you will tell me, as you well said this from here: did we have to wait for the Recovery Fund? Oh, no. I'll be honest. There was the NSRF, which was a financial instrument which was exploited to some extent by the previous government and was to be exploited by it as well. However, when we have to integrate a set of projects that will have a certain anticipated effect, they will be a reform and will certainly help to deal with the pathogens of the area of justice - greater of which we know and will not hide behind our finger, they are delays in the time of justice - and, of course, that is when we have to take the necessary steps. In order to take these steps, we obviously need to organise, plan, plan major projects, which will actually come to respond to this issue. So, in the Recovery Fund, we put the second phase of the HRM - MSM - PSM, we add the extension of the IMM - IMM for the administrative courts, we put the electronic, digital criminal record, and at the same time we already run the programmes for the telexes and the digitalisation programmes for all the procedures of the Court of Auditors. As you know, in recent years, we have gone on to record the practices of the criminal courts. We have already managed to issue earlier dozens of electronic certificates, especially at this time of the past and there were all these issues. And of course, as you well know, since the new judiciary year, we will have the so-called "electronic board". The flow of the trial is a reality, which everyone has announced, the plenary session of the lawyers has announced. It is a time when the government's reform work towards the digital age seems to be a very high priority, which one cannot question. But, on the other hand, I also have to accept that there always has to be a prior planning to move on to the next one. And of course we are also planning a few additional things, which will probably not be implemented in the time of this governance, because no one can claim that by pressing a button it can change a reality. We need resources, we need planning, we need implementation, we need human resources, we need a set of, I would say, heterogeneous and different factors, which help to implement a project. I come to an issue that you have raised, Mrs Giannakopoulou, on which I shall be telling you quite frankly that I am in favour of all the thoughts you have made, starting with your speech. You were not at the end of the debate in the committee, but now we are here all along and I have the opportunity to answer it. Indeed, it is only a disgrace and incrediblely negative feeling that this large number of unexplained and inconceivable acts of violence, abuse or even murder of women can cause to all of us in recent years. It is something that does not fit any human logic, no morality. There's no talk of that. And since we have, in fact, announced strictness in many, if you want, cases relating to the Criminal Code, I will tell you that the effort that has been made over the last two years is obviously not affected by psychology or the burden of these events, but in fact it has actually seen such developments, and that is why we are basically against them all. What I can tell you is that very soon, I think that perhaps by the end of the month, the framework for changes to the new Criminal Code will be in public consultation. We all need to understand that changes in the Criminal Code are not an easy case. I think we'll all agree on that. You, in fact, know this very well. There is a need for a study - there is a need for cooling, we may have to see a more general framework, which must balance between a view that prevails in the European legal system, where the reduction of penalties leads to the rapid reintegration and resocialisation of all those who committed a crime at some point in their lives. On the other hand, however, the only equilibrium is to inspire Greek society with a sense of security, inspire Greek society and satisfying it with a sense of common law, but also giving the feeling that such crimes cannot be left unpunished. We are right in the middle of this axis, that balance that we must respect. Nor, on the other hand, could a legal committee dealing with changes to the Criminal Code be very easily or very quickly given some proposals. I repeat, seriously, with responsibility and modesty taking all this into account. The psychology of the moment that can form a crime is not a guide. But, of course, the question of stricter penalties for you is a premise, and I say it. It is an issue which concerns us and which may be in the proposals that will be put forward and which will be made public in a short time from now on. I repeat, however, that we will all have the opportunity to discuss them in a later year and, of course, all together, to see without prejudice - and I say this directly - how we can formulate provisions of the Criminal Code that will create, above all, a sense of security for Greek citizens and give the opportunity to all citizens, throughout society, to understand that there is a state that sees them and protects them and respects them. Because that is what this is all about, ladies and gentlemen. I should like to close with a small comment on the contested amendment on vaccination. I do not know where a view might possibly arise that vaccination may involve risks or may create issues, when the generalised debate that exists not only at Greek, but at European level has resulted in specific assumptions, the main of which is that, in order to create a protection wall, at least 70% of the population should be vaccinated. And I think that the message that the political system should broadcast as a whole should be in that direction. It is a pity, ladies and gentlemen, and I am referring above all to CSR, that it cannot balance the inner voices when on the one hand the Chief of Staff Response, Mr. Tsipras, is supposed to put back on the other, and on the other, says 'I will take the risk of protests'. And when he comes to the House, and more or less accepts that the vaccinations should be carried out on health workers and on the other hand, colleagues are dragging him into a sterile opposition, which, unfortunately, is not responsible and does not show that we are finally putting back on a real, I would say, a particular case, which I think should be dealt with in a different way from the whole political system. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about human lives. We are talking about people who, unfortunately, are losing their lives. And if life isn't the supreme good we all have to fight for, obviously we're talking about a completely different view that might exist from each other. It is really a pity, through a logic that is more opposition and not real, to emit contradictory messages to the Greek society. I think this is probably the worst thing to be able to record for the political system all this time. The view that there may be is just one, that we must do everything we can to avoid overloading the National Health System, that there is no general question threatening the health of our fellow citizens and all of us, of course, and that we must give a specific educational example to the whole of society. The fact that the vaccination of health workers in general is compulsory in most European countries I think it should concern you and you realise that this is about the least responsible responsibility that the one who is supposed to have to deal with this problem. It is a matter of common sense, I do not think it can be answered in any other way. And because all this seems to be a more philosophical debate, which, unfortunately, is only part of the logic of the political gain - political cost - is, I repeat, the minimum obligation for all of us to send a stable teaching message. And that is the real responsibility that the political system can have today and over time, is the real responsibility which is reflected in the choices of this government, is the real responsibility that will give us the opportunity to stand with dignity towards Greek society and Greek citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u243	The debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Justice is closed: 'Institutional Law of the Court of Auditors and other regulations'. We move on to vote on the principle, articles, amendments and all, and they will be voted on separately.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u244	The rapporteurs and the special speakers are requested to submit to the Bureau documents with their votes in order to register them in the official minutes of the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u245	On completion of the vote, the draft law of the Ministry of Justice: ‘Institutional Law of the Court of Auditors and other arrangements’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, in principle, of articles and all, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u246	I would ask the House to empower the Bureau for its ratification of the Minutes in its entirety.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u247	Authorization has been provided. Ladies and gentlemen, the minutes of the sittings of Monday 24 May 2021, Tuesday 25 May 2021, Wednesday 26 May 2021, Thursday 27 May 2021, Friday 28 May 2021, Monday 31 May 2021 and Tuesday 1 June 2021 have been distributed and the House is asking whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u248	The minutes of the sittings of Monday 24 May 2021, Tuesday 25 May 2021, Wednesday 26 May 2021, Thursday 27 May 2021, Friday 28 May 2021, Monday 31 May 2021 and Tuesday 1 June 2021 were ratified. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-22-S1-commons.u249	With the consent of the House at the time of 19: 22 the sitting for tomorrow, Friday 23 July 2021, at 9: 00, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, discussion of current questions.
