ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-28-S2-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICE: In accordance with Parliament's 28-6-2021 authorisation, the PNA's minutes were endorsed by the Bureau of the PNA's PNA's PNA's minutes of 28 June 2021, in part concerning the special agenda for the reopening of the Parliament's plenary session, by its President, between the members of the Ice Bay and the Prosecutor's Board of Appeal, appointed or promoted to the extent that they possess prior to the submission of the proposal for a prosecutor's prosecuting, for the appointment of two [2] of alternate members of the Judiciary Council, as well as the President of the Prosecutor, in accordance with Articles 86(4) of the Constitution, 158(1) and (2) of the Rules of Procedure of the House and 8 of Law 3126/2003 ‘Christian responsibility of the Ministers’, as applicable, following the decision of the Parliament's Chamber of 22 July 2020 on the conduct of criminal proceedings against the former Deputy Minister of Justice Minister of Appeal of the former Deputy Minister of Appeal in the former Deputy Minister of Appeal, Couries.]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS In writing, the Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs, Mr Koutnatzis, informs the House that the timely questions to be discussed are as follows: Question No 871/14-6-2021 will be answered by the Minister of Finance, Mr Christos Staikoura. Question No 878/17-6-2021 will be answered by the Minister of Culture and Sport, Mr Styliani Mendoni. Question No 6099/588/19-4-2021 (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure), to be answered by the Minister of Justice, Mr Constantine Tsiara. The Question No 876/17-6-2021 will be answered by the Minister of Tourism, Mr Theocharis Theocharis. The Question No 887/18-6-2021 will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Theodoros Doulakakis. Question No 882/18-6-2021 will be answered by the State Secretary for Foreign Affairs, Konstantinos Frangoyannis. Question No 874/16-6-2021 will be answered by the Secretary of State for the Environment and Energy, Mr Nicholas Tagaras. Question No 6174/21-4-2021 (Rule 130(5) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure), to be answered by the Deputy Minister of Digital Governance, Mr. George Stylion. We begin with the discussion of the fourth under number 874/16-6-2021 of the first cycle of the Parliamentary I East Attica of Mera25 Mr. Maria Apatzidis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Complete opposition by associations, bodies and residents of Eastern Attica to the illegal operation of HYTA/HYCF in the Graphic". Mrs. Apajidis, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-28-S2-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I would first of all like to thank you for being here today to discuss a matter of major importance for Eastern Attica and its inhabitants respectively. You should know that we, as Mera25, have too high on our agenda the environmental footprint. We are, however, on this subject, because you are surely aware that more than seventy bodies and associations of Eastern Attica together with thousands of inhabitants have been opposed to the construction of an integrated ODR waste management facility, i.e. HYTA, at the Black Mountain Grammarathon, which will be processed eighty thousand tonnes of waste per year. We think you're a serious political body. You would never have chosen to operate HYTAS a few hundred meters from the sea of Eubolic, i.e. just a few miles from the Marathon Lake, next to an area "NATURA", near the fertile plain of Marathon and a distance of two and a half kilometres from a seismic breach, especially after the advice of the experts on the proven water permeability of rocks, the ground water supply and the geomorphology of the area with a stream, which will surely lead the liquid drains straight to the sea. In other words, the arguments of those who object to this project are confirmed. This work is not just dangerous. It is also completely illegal, Minister, as is apparent from the reports by environmental inspectors and, of course, without any timely environmental impact assessments. Moreover, the position they have chosen on the border of the Municipality of Marathon finds archaeological finds, which have been largely destroyed, and which have enormous historical significance, I also think of you. Geomorphologically, the area is completely inappropriate and poses a risk to public health, because, among other things, soil permeability will allow drainage, according to experts, not only the ground and the sea, but also the waters of Lake Marathon. What I would like to ask you, and where would the people of Eastern Attica want to ask, is this: will you immediately ratify both the notice of the tender for the construction of waste and biowaste treatment plants and the decision to operate the integrated waste management facility, which includes an AIA, MEDA, HYTY, HYTY in the Graphic? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-28-S2-commons.u3	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-28-S2-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Madam President, I respect your sensitivity to an issue that is certainly serious, which concerns the protection of the environment and public health. All of this is interconnected and interact with each other. Today, apart from what I can tell you, it is the date for submitting tenders for the tender to which you refer about the integrated waste management facility in the north-east Atlantic. As far as I am concerned, the opening-up of tenders to the retailer, which was on 18 June, goes on 2 July. I say this because you referred before and asked me what we can do to stop the competitive process. Today the files are being filed. I know that there are objections in terms of contractors, and I know that there are also appeals and moves to the Council of State against these appeals, to close any loose ends with regard to the competitive process. So you understand that my answer is that it is not right to stop the competitive process at this time. I'm saying it because you asked me. Let me tell you something: for the work we are discussing, there is disagreement on the position. It is, however, necessary to have an organised space which meets the specifications and requirements relating to environmental protection and the management of solid waste. It is a long-term obligation and a delay in a major problem. I would like to tell you that this has started for eighteen years. The first environmental approval decision is 2003. After that, there have been extensions and amendments and we have reached the last decision on 4-11-2015 amending and renewing the Decision approving the environmental conditions in force until 2025. I also want to tell you that, for all these environmental adoption decisions, before they are adopted, environmental impact studies are assessed and of course measures are taken and environmental measures are proposed to minimise any problems. Along with this evaluation, interventions are proposed to protect the environment and the environment. A few days ago, I had a question from your honourable Member and our colleague, on the other hand, in the Race, about extending the area for solid waste to waste. You know, on the one hand, we are prolonging old, certainly very problematic situations, precisely because we have not predicted organised conditions that meet both protection and processing requirements, like those we are discussing. We can't wait any longer. Eighteen years have passed since the first GDP. Don't go another eighteen years back, stopping the process. We have reached the source, finally, to give way and solution to the problem. However, as the answers are complementary, and I do not want to abuse time, I will supplement it in its second language. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-28-S2-commons.u5	Thank you, too, Minister. Mrs. Apajidis, please, for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-28-S2-commons.u6	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I'll ask you a personal question. Is there any chance that a man could go and get a fish and ever put it on his table to eat it? You wouldn't do it either, me or neither. That is the basic difference, because it must not be done and why it must not go any further. I realise that there may be no political will and I respect it very much. You're very careful about what you're saying. As you quite rightly said, since 2003 the first ministerial decision on the construction of a waste management facility was adopted in the Graphic. I mean, there have been dozens of dynamic mobilizations. You are an experienced politician, certainly much more experienced than I am. So you know what happened then. They object to this because they consider it extremely dangerous for their region to be degraded. This is important. Let us not forget that this is a very good area. In addition, more than seventy local bodies and associations of cultural, interracial, folklore, sports, women's and parents' associations, seafarers, etc. from New Makri, Rafina, Pikermi, New Buja, Graphic, Oropo, Eye, Barnabas, Kalamato, Minister, appealed to the Council of State, as you quite rightly said before. I heard you carefully. What did they ask of the Council of State what was it? It was to annul the anti-constitutional and anti-constitutional and anti-European and Greek legislation a declaration of selection of the contractor of the project in which the decision approving environmental conditions was incorporated. However, as the applicants say, that decision was adopted in breach of the environmental licensing rules. In more detail, they argued at the time that the contractor selection declaration was issued in breach of the law. I am specifically talking about a law, Law 4014/2011 and European Directive 92/43/EEC, Minister, which protects the conservation of natural habitats and especially those that are part of the pan-European ecological network 'NATURA 2000', to which the region has been integrated since 2017. The choice of a contractor is contrary to Directive 2000/60 on the protection of the environment. The renewal of the environmental approval decision made since 2015 was erroneously adopted on matters, as there are two streams in the area where the project will be implemented. It should be noted here that these currents have not yet been delimited, as required by the laws and case law of the Council of State. This is very important and if you can answer your dentistry. Entities point out that, in accordance with the requirements of Article 24 of the Constitution, technical works in the vicinity of streams may only be carried out provided that their physical operation is unobstructed and that the physical condition of the rafts is altered, the inclination and coverage of their bed is not allowed. I'm talking in particular. I do not say air words here in Parliament. In addition to this, the planned construction of a solid urban waste treatment plant and a biowaste treatment plant constitutes a large-scale operation that goes beyond the area’s carrying capacity. In other words, it will cause significant and irreparable ecological deterioration of the region, as I have told you from the beginning. It is impressive that no specific eco-use study has been carried out to date in order to assess the impact of the whole project to be built in the wider area, including the sea area of the southern Evik, the National Park of Skopje Marathon and the wetland of Skopje. I repeat that these areas are protected areas 'NATURA 2000', which - in simple Greek - are not touched, Minister, by law. Of course, it is not just water and water that will be contaminated, but also the air of the region. This means that a very recent study in Italy has shown that the effects on the respiratory system and the heart of people living within five kilometres of HYPI facilities were much more than in the general population. Moreover, the risk of insulting the lung cancer population was significantly increased. In the data mentioned above, we can only conclude that this criminal work must be cancelled. We ask you, Minister, to ensure that you do not allow the NATURA areas to be transformed into a havoc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-28-S2-commons.u7	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-28-S2-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Colleague, I respect the sensitivity of all the actors, the anxiety and the reflection. But, you know, we've been used to seeing garbage everywhere, bulk, uncontrolled, landfill sites. Let's go make some organized space that meets prerequisites and specifications. We didn't find them all on our own, and for the first time now. We even do copying systems that have been in existence years ago, outside of us and before us, and which have been visited by many and have actually seen them functioning. Responsibility and fear are not one of the organized spaces that we are finally going to build for the first time. We'll see them in practice. Entities see what is bulk even in which we are not putting order. He says to you: "Let's go another landfill site and the Graphic". It's not like that. The concerns you mentioned are concerns for all of us, because we want to protect the environment and biodiversity in all places. We are interested in the same way as you are interested in protection. You referred to the location and distances from sensitive areas before. I would like to say first of all that the position chosen is outside the NATURA 2000 network. From the project's size, it does not pass watercourses. The Council of State repeatedly in 2011 and 2014, twice as with other previous decisions, rejected the claim that from the project implementation position it is water-saving. I say it because there had been such a report many times. The work in terms of geological and hydrogeological suitability has been examined during its environmental authorisation, without any such problem, which would suggest its location. As far as the national strategy is concerned - because everything changes and becomes tighter, as we have experiences and functions of similar sites and processing plants elsewhere, as I said - what is evolving and the aim is first to minimize the waste that we are going to go to process, using the option of sorting at the source. Whatever's recycled to recycle. And what's finally left as a residue, in 10% of the initially produced quantity, to take it to the landfill area. This process is a national objective and also a European Union. Since you have also referred to issues relating to water utilization, I would like to say that according to the Institute for Geological and Mining Research, from studies carried out by the National Technical University, there is no risk with regard to groundwater from the operation of HYTH and that the work is environmentally safe. That's not what I'm saying. The experts say so, taking into account the specificities of the space to which you yourself referred, in the relief, in the geological elements and in the proximity of sensitive recipients. The aim is not to send them somewhere and through them to create more problems in the natural environment and biodiversity. These are our remarks. And I would like to stress that in Greece we have delayed making decisions and that is why people are looking suspiciously at everyone because they see images that do not look for anyone and I think they will see similar images in their area. It's not like that and it shouldn't be like that. We are here to monitor that it is not so that we meet the specifications and all that are required for the proper and safe operation of the plant that will process all this waste. With these remarks, I say again, and with respect and the sensitivity that I want you to know that they are the same for us, because the objective and common sense are the result that we want to achieve, we are moving in this direction, but also by monitoring everyone and everything. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-28-S2-commons.u9	Thank you, Minister. We move to the second under No 6099/588/19-4-2021 question and application for documents of the cycle of petitions and questions by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Justice on the subject: "The complete ending of the death of Shefi Valyrakis is not only an obligation of the state, but also a minimum sign of honour in his history and his struggles." The Minister of Justice will answer Mr. Constantine Tsiara. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-28-S2-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we are coming back with a timely question on a matter that is not just a serious matter for us, but also has a strong emotional character. The Change Movement, but I believe that every democratic citizen in this country, as I believe the government, has become aware, because it is a matter of honour and justice to be investigated in depth and of revealing all the truth about the conditions and the perpetrators of the tragic death of Shefi Valyrakis, a man who has given his life to the public and not only, in the anti-judgmentary struggle, in the House, in the government, in Crete and in every way, honoured the vote of the citizens who elected him for years in the Greek Parliament. Since the first days of his death we have asked for the immediate winding-up of the case and we have even received a affirmative reply from the Minister for Maritime Affairs, Mr Placiotakis, who was the head of the Port Authority, who was conducting the preliminary investigation. However, since then nothing substantial has been done in the direction we are calling for, the conclusion of the case. On the contrary, we have seen some rushing to prejudge that this is an accident, while not one, but two witnesses clearly disprove, showing in the direction of certain fishermen allegedly running the test, as they are said to, in the area, who were fighting and eventually killing Sfi Valyrakis. The two reports contained in the case-file are characteristic, on the one hand, the official forensic report by Mr Nicholas Kalogrias, but also the report by the authoritative Professor Charas Spiliopoulos, who speak of blows which cannot come from the ship. The lawyer of the family of late Mr Manolis Fotakis speaks directly about attempting to cover up, that is, the hooding, despite the many elements that exist. The show "Light in the tunnel" by Mrs Nikolaoulis and many well-known journalists, such as George Papachristos and others, have contributed as much as possible to pouring out plenty of light on the case. I will testify, Minister, the detailed memorandum from 26-5-2021 of the family of Sfi Valyrakis, in which all the known to date are exposed to evidence from both the evidence and the technical expertise and the autopsy carried out. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the Minutes the above memorandum, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So I ask you today, Minister, if, on the basis of all this, you have taken some action, and what action you have taken, so that you can make an effort to make progress, with efficiency and speed, to investigate the case, to clarify the circumstances of the case of Shefi Valyrakis, to reveal and be brought to justice, of course, knowing where your responsibilities are, and the responsibilities of the prosecutor and other bodies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-28-S2-commons.u11	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-28-S2-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, I listened carefully and you know the deep appreciation I have on your face. I would like to assure you that for me too, the unexpected chaos of Sifi Valyrakis, with which I too have been able to coexist at the headquarters of the Greek Parliament, deplores me deeply. Surely we couldn't imagine that the thread of this man's life, which we all honor, would be cut so unexpectedly. I would also agree that our respect for the history of Shefi Valyrakis requires that the case be broken down so that the answers to his death, above all, of course, to his relatives who have been living in question all this time. This should also be the case for any of our fellow citizens whose deaths are either certain or suspected of being the result of a criminal act. That is what I imagine to be a constitutional obligation for the authorities of the state, but of course also for justice. This constitutional requirement obliges the above authorities to cooperate in good faith and with methodicity in investigating a crime or alleged crime on the basis of the rules of the rule of law and of criminal procedure. These rules are very specific and in principle impose the abstention of the Minister of Justice from any action which could be considered to be unfair interference in the work of justice. And, of course, the Ministry of Justice has no opportunity to monitor the actions of the Port Authority, since, of course, you know that, too, there is no link between hierarchical dependence that could justify this. After all, the only possibility that the Minister of Justice was procedurally able to order the Public Prosecutor to carry out a preliminary examination of any criminal act or cases such as this exceptional nature would ask the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay to order the investigation and the introduction of the case to the audience as absolute priority, I imagine you are aware that he was abolished in the recent revision of the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure. It was right, in my opinion, because this was a provision which was never used and which would leave the flaw of a political feasibility behind a possible act of activation. Therefore, and given recent events that have revealed a constitutional unconscious association between the executive and the judiciary, any intervention of my own in the work of the public prosecutors investigating the case would be unacceptable. However, in the context of the institutionally permissible communication we have restored with the highest judicial authorities, I have sent a copy of the question you have tabled with your honourable colleagues to the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay, in order to be aware of the interest shown by the Parliament in this matter, asking him to act in his judgment. For some of the details on the stage where the investigation may be found, I will return to my dentistry. There are some things that can, of course, be said and can be known. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-28-S2-commons.u13	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-28-S2-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, of course, and I said it at the outset, we know that the possibility and concept of order has been abolished. But you, too, know very well that you can in the context of institutional communication, as you have rightly said, be informed and checked - within or outside of introductory procedures - concerning the competent prosecutors in particular with regard to our oligopoly and obviously not with regard to content. Delays and oligopoly will somehow have to push us to see how it can be avoided. That's what's going on with the Chalkida Prosecutor's office. We need to see why the pre-interrogation has not yet been completed. That's a matter. Moreover, under Article 32 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay itself has the power in cases of an exceptional nature to order the investigation and the introduction of the case as an absolute priority. We ask you, Minister, to do everything that is humanly and institutionally permissible by the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay to speed up the preliminary investigation. If this complex case of public opinion is not a case of exceptional nature, within the meaning of the law, then what is it? But, Minister, you can also work with the Minister for Maritime Affairs for the Port's investigations as members of the same Government, since we ask the government. It is obvious that we will be following the course of the investigations very closely from now on, both at the local level of Evia and at the level of the Headquarters of this House in Piraeus, and, if necessary, we will come back with a question to the Minister for Trade Shipping. However, I believe that it would be institutionally right for you to cooperate with the Minister in your information and exchange of information, if you wish, in order to settle the matter and, above all, the expression of that will, which I very much welcome, exists on your part as Minister. We would remind you that the family of the deceased since 2 February has already been indicted against all those responsible, and on 16 March it has tabled a supplementary memorandum. In these memos, all the information so far is displayed by both evidence and technical expertise and necropsy, as well as by what I have submitted to you today and which is very important. There are omissions from the Port at Eretria. These concern the movement of the vessel. There's a question about why it happened. They also concern critical investigations. This is why we are asked to prosecute the officials in charge of the port, as well as to transfer the file from Eretria to the Central Port Authority of Piraeus, as well as to provide the assistance of the Department of Humanities of EL.AS. Everyone must know in every direction, something that I think is also strengthening your position today, that there is an obligation, more moral, but also political and institutional, to pour out plenty of light. We will not, of course, get tired of it, but also of the family who have an obligation to do so. How else could it be done anyway? There is evidence, there is strong evidence that this is not a simple accident and a bad time. On the basis of these indications, everything leads to the fact that there has been criminal or even murderous action by certain individuals. So, if there are any people who are the ones who are prevented or stumbling, they should understand that we will not leave this case and that there will be no tolerance to any act that does not go hand in hand with what the favoured state imposes, especially in the field of justice. It seems from your words that you, as a representative of the government, are in agreement and an ally in this effort that we are making to clarify this foggy case, but very important and crucial to us. The truth must be the final result. Minister, I would like to thank you again, pointing out that we are aware of the responsibilities. We call, however, for anything that is human and institutionally possible to be done in order to be able to push the case forward; Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-28-S2-commons.u15	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-28-S2-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Kegeroglu, as I have pointed out in my prototype, it is mutually acceptable, which you have also stressed and accepted, that the constitutional principle of separation of powers is a fundamental concept of all modern democracy and of all the favoured states. The executive has a responsibility to exercise the rule of law and act in accordance with the laws, while the judiciary has a responsibility to apply them. The controversy of the conditions of the death of Sfi Valyrakis is the sole responsibility of the judicial authorities that are currently conducting the preliminary investigation. Any suggestions for their investigative work or how to collect evidence can create a sense of direct intervention by the executive in court, but possibly also the humiliated impression that the Ministry of Justice has a guiding role in order to subject the judicial authorities to executive power. As I have pointed out from the written answer from 4 June to your original question, which you have turned into a timely one that we are now discussing, if there are objections against specific officials of justice, the parties concerned can be referred to by providing specific information to the relevant hierarchical higher disciplinary bodies of justice. You know very well that this has been done. You also know that this involves the risk of further delays. That's the truth. Because, as indicated in the relevant Proceedings of the Proceedings of the Proceedings of the Proceedings of the Proceedings of the Proceedings of the Proceedings of the Proceedings of the Proceedings of the Proceedings of the Proceedings of the Proceedings of the Proceedings of the Proceedings of the Proceedings of the Proceedings of the Proceedings of the Proceedings of the Proceedings of the Proceedings of First Instance since 9 June, following the lodging of a complaint to the Proceedings of the Proceedings of the Ice and the Proceedings of the Proceedings of Appeal of the Proceedings of the Proceedings of the Proceedings and of the Proceedings of the Proceedings of the Court of First Instance of First Instance of the European Union, the Pros have been submitted, in accordance with the statement of fact that, a declaration of a declaration under Article 23(1). The same document states that the preliminary examination has been carried out since 29 March, at the request of the Proceedings Attorney-General of Chalkida, following the transmission of the own-initiative file by the Port Authority of Eretria. You can understand that forensic research also takes time, so that by methodicity and using every modern medium all the elements that result from evaluation and evaluation are properly assessed, so that they can show the further directions to which the research must of course turn. That is why, given the complexity of the case and the comparability of the data expected, the time spent to date on the judicial investigation of the case could not in any way justify the intervention of the Ministry of Justice. This is imposed on grounds of decency, respect and confidence in the institutions of justice on the common assumption that a state without justice cannot function properly. I will repeat that the sudden death of the great really wrestler Shefi Valyrakis has shocked us all. And I would like to assure you that at institutional level there has been cooperation with the Minister for Maritime Affairs and we have done everything possible, I repeat in the permitted institutional framework that exists at the moment, so that the case can be clarified as quickly as possible and that we can move in a direction so that the facts can be proved. We can understand human suffering as well as the distress of this House and of you in particular, which I am saying very sincerely. I can assure you that any effort can be made within the framework of institutional competence and the Ministry of Justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-28-S2-commons.u17	Thank you, too, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-28-S2-commons.u18	Mr President, may I have a request?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-28-S2-commons.u19	Mr. Kegeroglu, there's no tritology. We will continue with the sixth under No. 887/18-6-2021 topical question of the second question of the Member of the Heraklion Parliament of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, on "Support measures for apiculture and the implementation of the aid programme for the beekeepers of Crete". The Minister of Finance will answer Mr. Skulakakis. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-28-S2-commons.u20	I will now say, Mr President. Invitation to Mr. Tsiara is the Minutes of the debate to be forwarded to the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-28-S2-commons.u21	I can testify now, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-28-S2-commons.u22	No, not the Minutes of the debate, from the Minutes of the House. If you wish to be available to the Bureau, to be sent to the Arena Ice without any comments. Thank you very much. We have experienced, Minister, really in the pandemic problems in all branches, in more, less. So beekeepers are one of the sectors that was particularly affected. And of course, I am referring to the whole country, but also to Crete. He's in despair, because he keeps getting worse. Much of the production of honey remains indisposed. A whole apiculture year seems to be lost. The restrictive measures have contributed or imposed, if you like, to prevent the bees from moving. You are well aware that bees in hives are transported from place to place to place in order to make appropriate management for the development of production. This was not done because of the restrictive measures for a long period of pandemic. We therefore had a deterioration in the quality of bee flocks and thus the reduction in expected production by about 40%. Moreover, the crisis in tourism and last year and of course the problems in relation to the focus have had a significant impact. The reduction in mood reaches 70% by 80% compared to the previous year, of course, along with the reduced purchasing capacity of consumers or, if you like, the non-priority in relation to this consumption. The producers themselves are talking about a lost year over the 20th year, the worst year. Climate change, drought, high temperatures and anomalia intensify the problem. I now come to what the government has promised. Support measures in the apiculture sector, with the aid amount being fixed at EUR 6 per production hive and, of course, by fluctuation, up to EUR 7 000. There has so far been no information and procedure for implementing this aid measure in the apiculture sector. And because the beekeepers in Crete are facing a great deadlock, with the risk that they will not survive the next period, I would like you to inform us why this commitment of the government has not been implemented and what you will do in order to make the financial support of the industry more rapid, with other measures possibly the implementation of your commitments. I would remind you that such a programme for the smaller islands has been implemented for the smaller islands of Crete. Let us see how we can directly integrate the apiculture sector as a affected CVID -19 if this has not been done to date. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-28-S2-commons.u23	Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-28-S2-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to say that, especially for the beekeepers in Crete, we have some evidence from the relevant CFPs, a reduction in total turnover - I am talking about all the counties in Crete - from 10,361,000 to about 8,900,000. This changes from county to county, but that doesn't matter. It is clear that there has been a significant reduction in the turnover we are told to have, because he is, as you know, the one that counts. This loss is partly covered by the returnees and will be covered in addition to or to a significant extent for all the beekeepers in the territory by a direct payment of EUR 3.39 per hive and a total of EUR 3.2 million to be provided from the COVID reserve of the Ministry of Finance. This amount has already been to the Ministry of Rural Development and the relevant CSR has been drawn up and sent to the European Commission, because it should not be considered as illegal State aid. Within the days, it will be signed, published in the FEK and will be implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-28-S2-commons.u25	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-28-S2-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, I will not go into the more general problems facing honey. After all, it is the Ministry of Rural Development that should see many of the things that beekeepers experience, from the Greekisations to other problems. As far as the Ministry of Finance is concerned, I think you know - you must know - that they are not beneficiaries of the classical aid - subsidies for beekeepers. It is essentially a sector that operates in competition and operates successfully, because we have quality honey in our country. If there were no pandemic, there would obviously not be much of the problems that today are asking for a solution. It is good that you are moving towards an aid measure, but I would ask you to see the differentiation, which exists in relation to the island character and Crete. Do not consider Crete to be part of the islands. It belongs to the islands by legislation that has been made at your disposal. He joined the island policy, because it was not until the previous government. But it is. So it's something you need to see. EUR 3,39 per hive is a sum that I believe will not cover the damage they have suffered. I would like you to consider a differentiation in relation to the islands, in relation to Crete, to be different the amount for the islands. It's imposed by the Constitution. I am well aware of this, because I and the President often ask that we take into account the requirement of the Constitution in the regulatory acts adopted by the Ministries and Governments, but also in any body which decides as the Constitution says. And that is something you can do, in order to have a compensation for the damage you mentioned, based on the evidence from the Ministry of Finance, which is reflected, because most of the hours - rightly you said so - in the sectors that we have production and disposal and direct disposal are not reflected in this. In this case it is reflected because Cretan honey and Greek honey generally pass through the process of standardisation, certification and movement, which seems to be directly controlled by reducing and increasing growth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-28-S2-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-28-S2-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President. I thank the honourable Member for his work. I just want to point out that the aid granted on the basis of de minimis is unfortunately, in my opinion, uniform, as they come out. My opinion is that aid must be directly linked to losses - more directly, as we did with the returnee - to be much more real and fair. Because many times when you amplify all the same per hive, aids for those who have had less damage and those who have less damage or no harm more than they are. As far as state aid is concerned, I must tell you that these are generally governed by regional aid rules and, as far as I know, Crete is covered by these rules and will be much better covered in terms of investment in the years to come. My opinion is that we have made a fair arrangement for beekeepers, with the weaknesses of the de minimis I have told you, and I hope in the coming years that producers will find additional opportunities and be helped, in particular, to work much more together to achieve a little higher average size of units, so that we can also help them to export honey more and more, at the very good, the wonderful thing we are producing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-28-S2-commons.u29	Thank you, too, Minister. Before entering the next time-consuming question, I will make a statement from 28-6-2021 to this House. The Standing Committee on Social Affairs submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Health ‘Definition of 24.3.2021 amendment from 3.2.20 individual Donation Convention for Project I, [Annex 5 to Law 4564/2018] and from 13.5. 2021 amendment from 6.9.2018 Donation Convention between the Foundation “Stavros S. Niarchos Foundation” and the Greek State for the strengthening and upgrading of infrastructure in the health sector and its annexes, arrangements to address the CIVID Pandemic -19 and other provisions”. We move to the first with number 6174/21-4-2021 question of the circle of petitions and questions by the Member of the SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr.Ioannis Sarakiotis to the Minister of Digital Governance, on the subject: "In the unprecedented situation in ELTA services in the Regional Unit of Phiotidos due to the manipulations of the government". The Deputy Minister of Digital Governance will answer Mr. George Stylos. Mr. Sarakiotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-28-S2-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, now the situation in the services and also in the ELTA stores in the Regional Unity of Fthiotida, because of the government's manipulations and manipulations, has reached the unprecedented. It's in the "red" situation. In a number of parliamentary interventions over the past period I have carried out the indignation felt both by the citizens and institutions and by the self-government in the region and is linked to the deterioration in the operation of the ELTAs in the Regional Unit of Fthiotida. For example: On 3-3-2021, "Rehabilitation of Greek Posts in the Municipality of Amphiklia - Elias". March 2021, "Locre Municipality's consent to the degradation of Greek Posts, ELTA". February 2021, “Protest by the Commercial Association of Agios Konstantinos Fthiotidas in view of the closure of a branch of ELTAs”. February 2021, “The need to upgrade the ELTA Domokos branch”. October 2020, “Restoration of Greek Posts and their residual function in the Regional Unit of Fthiotidas”. October 2020, a report on the theme “Protest by Presidents and local communities of West Fthiotis on the closure of the ELTA service in Agios Georgios Tymfristos”. On 5-6-2020 a question about "Spain and Malesina ELTA services Degradation". All these parliamentary interventions - there are others, but not to tire out all of them - have arisen after the concerns, desperation and protest of so many municipal councils - because there are many decisions of municipal councils dealing with and expressing the protest to the Ministry and to the ELTA - as many people in the region. The Ministry’s replies are ‘carbon’ and are all reassuring and refer to ensure that residents are served in every case. Indeed, the answers as a cause of the problems are also mentioned by the great drop in the volume of correspondence, which we all realise that during the pandemic there was no drop in the volume of correspondence. The opposite is true. There are also the charges of the President of the ELTA Association of Workers in the media of Fthiotis, where he refers to rosphetological recruitment in the ELTA stores. Minister, as you well know, Greek Posts must operate in the public interest both in cities and in difficult areas, where the need for posters to be present is much greater. For this reason, and because the depreciation continues, I ask you what the Ministry's plan is to eliminate these phenomena, what you intend to do with the scenarios that exist, what the world says, about total depreciation and then full privatisation of Greek Posts and whether you will proceed with an investigation into the way the branches are managed in the Regional Unit of Phiotidas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-28-S2-commons.u31	Thank you, too. Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-28-S2-commons.u32	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Colleague, I understand your question and the point you raise. But I would like to inform you and remind you of the following. Since 2018 the ELTAs have been the main shareholder of the SYPS, the Greek Company of Public Property Participants. I'm talking about 2018. You remember very well and you and the Greek people who had the rule of the country in 2018. This was in fact done in accordance with the law and the decisions taken in 2016. In any case, however, these relate to decisions taken by the legally and democratically elected government and the Greek Parliament in the past. See what is going on today and what is the reality? So the reality tells us that as far as the letter is concerned, its circulation has fallen. That's not questionable. This also applies to Greece, both in Europe and in Europe, and that is what we have at your disposal. If you want, we also give them to you from the answers to the questions you have asked. But what is the interest? The interest is whether the citizen is served and whether the citizen is served throughout the Greek territory. We are committed as a government in the past, like Mr Pierracakis - I say this to you here today - that the citizen in the entire Greek territory will continue to serve. Now, in what way and with what means it will be served, this will tell us and we will be shown every moment and every day by the transformation that exists in the Hellenic Post. So I say to you that last December a law was passed by the Greek Parliament, of which an amount of EUR 180 million was given to cover the universal service for the years 2013 to 2017, which was not given in SYRIZA, as it should have been, and another sum of EUR 100 million. A total of 280 million have therefore been made available to implement the transformation of ELTAs by a company which served in the way it served Greek citizens, with the economic consequence of entering "in the middle" of about 7 million in the month - which is the money of Greek taxpayers, it is money that the citizens have given, and with respect we have to manage them - to a company that remains possible and sustainable, which will serve the entire Greek territory and the citizen will enjoy the services that we have committed to both the European Union and the citizens. In my dentistry, I'm going to say more in detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-28-S2-commons.u33	Mr. Sarakiotis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-28-S2-commons.u34	Minister, since 2018, when you mentioned that a law was passed etc., there has been no problem in the service of citizens. The last year these terrible phenomena have been observed. I will show you today's picture - not last month's, today's picture - in the town of Elia, where there are no longer any distributions to the homes of the elderly, despite the fact that 3 euros are paid. There is a reserve of 3 euros from the pensions of the elderly. And people go to a shop granted by the Municipality of Amphiclia - Elias - Tithoreas, which operates as a cultural centre and stacked by the elderly at 38 degrees Celsius and are waiting to get their pensions. These images were neither in 2018 nor 2019. Expired water accounts and PPC are coming in dozens of villages and cities of Phthytidos. And I would like to ask you: someone who loses the legal discount when he pays PPC's bill, where will he seek these amounts, because the accounts come with two and three months' delay? In the Municipality of Domokos there is currently a strong controversy between the mayor and the former mayor. What for? Because the water bills have arrived late for all the public. I mean, it's your responsibility. And the two combinations are killed for your own responsibility. The Domos are two people, two employees and one contractor. Will the chief get permission, like any employee, during the summer and you know what's happening? They propose that the contractor should take over the principal's debts. These have never been done either in 2018 or 2019. To support my words, look for the decisions of municipal councils and publications in the local press to see what is happening. Thirty-four villages of Domos are served by a postman. In Macargomi, Sperkada, Malesina, Atalantine professionals go to the stores and look for themselves to find the parcels in the ELTA stores. That's never happened before. Forty-eight villages, a postman in West Fthiotida. In many villages in the Prefecture of Fthiotida, Easter pensions were paid to pensioners after Easter. And you're telling me people enjoying services? Is this the pleasure, the expiration of accounts and the non-distribution of pensions? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-28-S2-commons.u35	Thank you, too. Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-28-S2-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, I would like to remind you first of all of this. The law is 4389/2016. It's your law, it's Article 197. You can look into it and see it in the truth of my word and from 1-1-2018 the company has been transferred to the HSY. In relation to previous accounts, I would like to remind you of the scandal that took place with PPC's accounts for the period 2015-2019, the period of governance of SYRIZA, which the citizens paid to ELTA the price for PPC's accounts and the ELPA retained the citizens' money for their own purpose. This is a scandal that has been recorded. I have evidence if you want. EUR 35.8 million had been retained and some time the amount was launched at 59.6 million. This was done on SYRIZA, however, and the people made their decisions. The question is this. One company was delivered in 2014, which was profitable, and in 2019 we reached the point, I would remind you again, every month to be loss-making by EUR 7 million. That was the management. This management we want to reverse it and reverse it for what reason? Because the Greek taxpayer cannot pay accumulated losses in previous years. I understand what you're saying, that there might be problems. I understand that. The administration will be asked about this, and every administration is controlled, judged. But we are in a transitional period. It became a success in terms of workers and labour costs, where 70% of the company's costs were labour costs. Over a thousand nine hundred workers wanted and followed this voluntary exit programme. They pressed the button themselves, they demanded it to reduce wage costs and it has decreased slightly over half and the company's rationalisation continues. We understand, however, that in this transformation, in this change made to the organisation - because nothing can change and suddenly turn to profitability, when the subject of work is reduced, because the letters sent by the citizens and the world - something needs to be done about how to operate. I understand that. Keep it up to you, and we tell the citizens, it's a transitional period. We expect to end up in the final transformation. The company concludes that it will be its final form. What is certain - and I am closing again with this - and we are committed by the Greek Parliament and it is also our obligation, we are not only doing so because we want it, we are obliged to cover the entire Greek territory and to make the distribution of the postal services of the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-28-S2-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. We move to the second with No 876/17-6-2021 topical question of the first cycle of SYRIZA MP Halkidiki - a Progressive Alliance Mr.Syria Malama to the Minister of Tourism, on the subject: "Serious problems in tourism in northern Greece at the beginning of the tourist season". The Minister of Tourism, Mr. Theocharis, will answer Theocharis. Mrs Malama, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-28-S2-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, unfortunately developments in the crucial issue of tourism in northern Greece continue to worry us. We have six weeks of tourism open and the vast majority of tourist businesses in the region of Macedonia and Thrace are in the air. You had first made it difficult for tourists to live with the protocols that you applied at the border, to the extent that the Balkan markets were ready to be lost. A few days ago, thankfully, you coordinated the European directives and started accepting antigen tests at the border. All this time you submitted diagnostic checks, even tourists fully vaccinated, although Mr Mitsotakis was supposed to fight for the 'green certificate' in Brussels. The result of this was to immerse road tourism in northern Greece before it even started. The largest Serbs tour operators canceled their packages in Halkidiki for asking for a PCR test for five-year-old children. The Russian market, which is also important for northern Greece, has also been lost for this year, with incalculable consequences in relation to the suspension of the Mousenides group. From the promises of an agreement with Russia on direct flights from Thessaloniki, it seems that we are going to ban Mrs Merkel from accepting citizens vaccinated with the Russian vaccine. That means, Mr Minister, the end of religious tourism in northern Greece and this year. And we ask you to answer clearly: why did you choose at the beginning of this season this extremely counterproductive management of vaccinated tourists? Why do you continue to subject the fully vaccinated tourists to checks that cause a crowd at the entrance gates of the country and, above all, because you do not support border posts with staff and infrastructure so that road tourism in northern Greece can operate from the Balkans. Road tourism may be the only one left this year in the country after the definitive loss of two huge markets, the British I mean and the Russian. In particular, as regards the latter, it would be interesting to hear what you intend to do with the losses from the suspension of the Moussenides group, which includes an airline, large hotels and huge openings in the tourist market in northern Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-28-S2-commons.u39	The Minister has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-28-S2-commons.u40	Thank you very much, Mr President. I find it hard to understand SYRIZA's position in relation to tourism. Is that your position that you described now? Get dogs salt, don't have any tests, whoever wants to come?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-28-S2-commons.u41	Don't falsify this. (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-28-S2-commons.u42	That is exactly the position you described.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-28-S2-commons.u43	Your Honor, please don't interrupt. The Minister will answer. You have the right to dentistry to correct, complete, alas. Minister, I'm zeroing time and start from the beginning.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-28-S2-commons.u44	Thank you very much. If you find it difficult to reach a coherent position, it is not your fault of the New Democracy or the Ministry of Tourism or me. For your bad luck the same day that you took off your question as to whether we accept the antigen tests, the same day the decision to accept the antigen tests was published in the FEK. Whether we accept antigen tests is not the Minister of Tourism's decision, because he is not the expert. It suggests a health committee. And I assure you that our position would be from day one, if it is healthproof, to accept antigen tests as well. And the committee's suggestion is that it is not healthly safe. It wasn't. If we didn't have any evidence for a few weeks to see the positivity at our borders from the tests we carried out, the doctors didn't sign the acceptance of the antigen tests. So you're telling us, in spite of the doctors' objection, that we should accept these tests against doctors. Well, no! The New Democracy does not pose a micropolitical problem or jeopardise the lives of its citizens. You, with your policy of proving that you would follow if you had had the helms of the country, it is obvious what you would have done, you would write the experts to the oldest of your shoes. However, the New Democracy Government does not do that. We are fully following their suggestions. So when they had the evidence, when we were sure that the positivity was small at our borders, we also have the possibility to move in the direction of openness and antigen tests. From there on we keep track of operational issues and health issues. As far as health issues are concerned, we are proving our reflexes. We have worked very hard to get to the point of opening flights with Russia. At the same time, however, we see an increase in the Delta mutation, both there and Portugal and Britain and elsewhere. Where we see this, we increase health surveillance and by increasing health surveillance we do the right thing for the health of Greek citizens, the right thing to do in the end for tourism itself. Because it is not the opening of tourism an easy process. It is a complex dynamic process that we must be on top and correct decisions every day depending on the new data they appear. Portugal did not have the Delta mutation. Three weeks of opening on the British market and acquired it. And within three weeks is 90% of the cases. These are new data that you need to take into account. We cannot take them into account if we want to be faithful to the task assigned to us by the Greek people. Now, as far as business is concerned, we'll talk about it in my denture so I won't take any more time. But I can assure you that road tourism is rising faster than air tourism. Just on Saturday, which is the day with the greatest flows, we had a 23% increase. Over twenty thousand people have entered our country by road from our northern border. And this shows that the systems also operate and any necessary improvements are made at a rapid pace.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-28-S2-commons.u45	Thank you, Minister. Here, my colleague, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-28-S2-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you falsified my words. I spoke about the rules imposed by the European Union, and I did not say anything in the air. It was very specific what I said and it was about what the European Union had decided. However, "other words to be loved", they say. I would like to share with you my experience of the situation at the Promahona border crossing. For what you say to us well, but every weekend, the tails and suffering of the world who want to come to northern Greece for tourism are enormous. We went to Promahona on May 14th a few hours before tourism opened. You know what we saw? Just a lane for tourist entry and a single step of EGE for diagnostic checks. Then we stressed that if all the border crossings are not operational, if we do not apply the 'green certificate' correctly, and if we do not strengthen the staff and the police and customs and EAEC, then the passage to peak days may exceed five hours. Sadly, since the three-day Holy Spirit and then we were confirmed celebrityly. I'm afraid so. Corresponding and worse image at the Euzone border station. And we ask you directly. You had seen the problem last year, we discussed this last year, Minister, here, why did you not make any preparations for the border? Why does the 'green certificate' mean a Greek who arrives in Germany passes the formalities in five minutes and a German tourist who comes by car in northern Greece or Halkidiki takes five hours to cross the border stations? The other day you went to the SANI RESORT in Halkidiki. I don't know what time you left, but at the so-called orphan kilometre at the height of Potidaea, the bowling was over three hours. And we repeat the question, why did you start this year's unprepared road tourism, when we had the same phenomena last year? Why didn't you fix last year's mistakes? In conclusion, I would also like to point out something that has annoyed the world of tourism in northern Greece. The Prime Minister announced a great support programme for tourism of 350 million, the programme for the supposed working capital. With the criteria you have set in this programme to receive EUR 1,000 aid, a hotel owner should in 2019 have EUR 20,000 turnover and three full-time staff for four months. What does that mean? That the reports on brave support proved to be carbon again. 90% of small and medium-sized enterprises will get from no up to 500 euros. Do you call that a working capital? Finally, most importantly, as you said about the developments with the Delta mutation, you have been tragically late in the vaccination of workers in tourism. Even today, if everyone is rushing - which is open to vaccines - to be vaccinated, all age groups need a two-month period to achieve immunisation. What does that mean? That workers and, above all, younger workers will be at least uncovered by July. And we ask you: why have you been so late in this regard?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-28-S2-commons.u47	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-28-S2-commons.u48	I'll try to talk a little bit codified, because a lot of issues have been raised. Firstly, we are not talking about the European Union's proposals. These are not the European Union's proposals. I say this, so as to end the point you raise in your question. The European Union, only three days ago, had announced its recommendations, and within them, did, in fact, speak of ten years and the antigen test following our own failures and proposals which were agreed at European, overall, only on domestic travel, not on Serbia, not on Russia, not on third countries. Therefore, the fact that we extended, after consulting doctors, the epidemiologists of these proposals to third countries, which are very important for tourism in northern Greece, this is an effort which we have naturally achieved in cooperation with the other ministries and, above all, with the committee of doctors. As far as the border situation is concerned, from the first day on, the effort for the borders themselves is much more coordinated and we do not have images like the ones we had last year. Last year we only had the Promagon open, precisely because the epidemiological fear was much greater. This year, having the experience and the tools that we have in our hands this year, we were able to start with more entrance gates. Example is the Nymphaea, very important gate to Thassos. Thassos professionals have sent us a lot of messages, just because the first day we tried to expand the entrance. Now, while I acknowledge that there are issues that need to be resolved, I myself in the period you mentioned, that I went to Halkidiki, went through Promahona, to have immediate knowledge in the field of the situation and as a result of this visit on the same day was agreed with the Chief of Police to extend three new entry lines, two to the entrance and one to the exit. Composition: Four and four entry lines were already in operation. So what you're saying is not true. Another parentheses: it is not now opposition to this logic, such as the opposition, which we saw, for example, from Mrs Skoufa, who went to the Evzoons on 7 rather than 10 in her own description, when she knows that the portal is opening at 7, to photograph the tail which is waiting with the gate to pass and is the maximum point in which the tail arrives.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-28-S2-commons.u49	Minister... (It hasn't been heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-28-S2-commons.u50	But he's your colleague. It's a sample, because the tourism manager, Mrs. Notopoulou, flagged this photo. It is therefore a central line of your party to make this kind of cheap opposition. Because it's cheap opposition to go photographing the tail when the border is closed. At 7 p.m. they opened the border and at 8:30 this tail was gone. And the fact that this weekend we didn't have the images we had the previous and the previous one, is precisely because things are getting better. Why do they improve? Because in cooperation - and I say again - there will be work to do with the Chief of Police and, as of July 1, there will be three lines, two lines, and one exit, at the Promachona. In cooperation with the Civil Protection Policy and the Ministry of Citizen Protection, we are opening up all the gates of entry, where possible, and Doirani and Nike and Krystalgate, we are expanding Cakavia, extending multiple gates of entry, the Euzones make them twenty-four hours, just to extend the movement and in a natural way break into multiple gates of entry - and this as of July 1st - precisely so that we can improve the conditions of entry. Now it's cheap opposition, because you know very well that on SYRIZA these tails exist. And in 2017, in 2018, in 2019, there were these tails, because they are also the result of the checks carried out. In fact, over the last two years for others - not health reasons - Schengen imposes controls which are not simplified at every stage for safety reasons and for the purposes of movement and control of citizens. So you know very well that, although the Schengen framework has been tightened, we have also come with more staff - thirty-six people are in Promachona and six people go to the Evzone - and new sanitary teams open up and improve the conditions. Here we will be, to watch and after all these improvements in the situation, to see if there is anything else to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-28-S2-commons.u51	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-28-S2-commons.u52	I shall conclude, Mr President, because I think that the picture is clear. I don't have to add. Firstly, the government has the health of its citizens. Secondly, it is above and corrects operationally or any other issues that will naturally arise. And we will be here to protect citizens not with economic logic first, but with health first. We will be here listening to the doctors, those doctors whom SYRIZA does not just take into account, but also in some cases, as we have heard from your SYRIZA colleagues, with their Facebook posts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-28-S2-commons.u53	Mr Athanasios Athanasios Athanasios in his letter to the President of Parliament calls for the absence of permission from the House abroad from Saturday, July 3, 2021 to Tuesday, July 6th, 2021. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-28-S2-commons.u54	The House therefore approved the requested permission. The following topical questions which I mention and the questions will not be discussed in consultation with the competent ministers with the honourable Members. It is timely question number 877/17-6-2021, Question number 875/16-6-2021, Question No 881/17-6-2021, Question No 888/18-6-2021, Question No 5978/577/14-4-2021 and request for documents to be lodged, Question No 6002/15-4-2021, Question 5912/124/2021 and Question No 880/17-6-2021. They will also be mentioned in the Minutes. The first question under number 871/14-6-2021 will be debated in the first cycle of MP B3' South Athens, Nea Charalambos (Babis) Papademiriou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Information on the results and progress of tax incentives adopted by Parliament to attract investment and natural persons with a tax residence abroad". The Minister of Finance, Mr Christos Stakouras, will answer. Mr. Papadimitriou, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-28-S2-commons.u55	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'm asking your permission to take off the mask to undo my glasses.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-28-S2-commons.u56	Okay, there's no one else.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-28-S2-commons.u57	Mr President, Minister, in a series of legislation taken by the House, incentives were given for professionals, small businesses and pensioners and individuals to come and settle in Greece, giving them the incentive to tax residence. This motivation is extremely modern. We agreed on this in the successive debates that have taken place here, and I believe that the debates that have taken place since your suggestions have helped the opposition to better understand the value of such measures. Comparing Greece with other states, it is taking steps to bring modern law closer to us without, of course, creating any problems of tax inequality between our guests and tax guests and our fellow citizens. However, since then and today, although you have brought to Parliament some elements in the last debate on the previous regulations, we have not received any information on the success of this initiative, which is what it is, and we would like to know exactly what you have done and what you have to do with the successful completion of this initiative. I would also like to take this opportunity to tell us whether there is, of course, evidence that is on the side of success, whether you intend to give more incentives or what we expect or what a campaign is needed, in order to make the opportunity for many to come to Greece more widely known. Greece is now a wanted state in terms of its level of life, protection against, as it has proved, such a serious disease and so contagious. In other words, we have many conditions, we have the possibility of building better tools that these people need, of actually bringing their tax home here, and by the way, Mr Staikoura, you can tell us what else you might bring after the completion of these tax incentives. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-28-S2-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr. Papadimitriou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-28-S2-commons.u59	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, Mr Papadimitriou, your question is literally timely, crucial and essential. It concerns the evaluation of legislative initiatives, the progress of regulatory acts and the information on the results of implementation of all of them. I therefore inform you at the outset of your main question that the resonance is important and the results are encouraging. I will go with the backwards of legislative initiatives, as has been put to your question. I'll start from 2019. Law, as you quite rightly say, 4646/2019. What then had we legislated as a parliamentary majority? In the 2020 tax year, the taxpayer - it is good to remember these things, to attract even more - a natural person carrying his tax residence in Greece can be subject to an alternative taxation of income arising abroad for 15 years, provided that it meets cumulatively specific conditions, including investment in Greece of a minimum amount of EUR 500,000. A flat-rate tax of EUR 100,000 annually eliminates every natural person’s tax liability on the income accruing abroad. Alternative taxation may also be extended at the request of the taxpayer to specific persons. That's what we legislated. In 2020, the first year of application of the provisions, despite the extremely adverse conditions of the first pandemic wave, submitted twenty applications, from which the applications of eighteen investors and seven relatives were approved. The applications concern investors from nine countries, mainly outside the European Union. The total of the tax confirmed and paid amounted to 1,9 million euro in 2020. In 2021, the number of applications already submitted amounted to fifty eight. The provisions for fifty-seven investors, seventeen relatives from twenty countries, mainly outside the European Union, were accepted. The total tax to be paid is EUR 7.9 million for 2021, of which EUR 2.9 million has already been paid. Therefore, this government initiative is being implemented, I think, by the elements you see in 2020 and 2021 comparatively, with great interest to investors. Let's go to the second initiative. Two in my prology and two in my denology. The next step, as you rightly refer to your question, is the granting of tax incentives by Law 4714/2020. From the investors where did we go now? Retired people. According to these provisions, since the 2020 tax year, the natural person who is a beneficiary of an income pension from a foreign pension who carries his tax residence in Greece has been subject to an alternative tax rate for foreign income for 15 years, provided that certain conditions here also apply cumulatively. The natural person pays each tax year autonomously at a rate of 7% for the total income acquired abroad, while the income obtained in the domestic sector is taxed by the general provisions. In 2020, the first year of application of the provisions, eight applications were submitted by taxpayers from five countries, mainly outside the European Union, from which the seven were adopted. In 2021, there were two hundred applications submitted by taxpayers from twenty different countries, both in the European Union and outside of the Union, for which the authorisation procedure is in progress. For these taxpayers - let us also see the tax benefit - the tax is confirmed by the submission of tax declarations that you know are in progress. This second government initiative therefore attracts a great deal of interest to investors and, in this case, retired people. So I told you about investors, about pensioners, my position on young people who want to return to Greece is in my denture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-28-S2-commons.u60	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr. Papadimitriou has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-28-S2-commons.u61	Thank you very much, Mr President, Mr Minister. I'd like you to go a little further and tell us if what you appreciate is really a success or you've been waiting for something more. I understand the circumstances of COVID, it is obvious that they have caused a disturbance in the decisions of all of us, how much rather the people we have expected, but, if this model is successful, then we really need to advertise it and become a component for which Greece will be renowned, as other states are renowned, because Greece is a place of peace, it is a place where the laws are implemented. These incentives are very important, of course at the same time as tax incentives. I would also like all Members to understand, and in particular those who objected in any way, even ironically during the debate in plenary, that these are revenues which we would not have had in any way. It is budgetary revenue, which we could not have in any way. Finally, I would like to ask you your personal opinion, Minister, if incentives similar to those in the real estate markets we have could be codified to form a package of attractions to people who want to come to Greece, because Greece is a place that attracts them, who loves them, who wants to host them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-28-S2-commons.u62	The Minister has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-28-S2-commons.u63	Thank you very much. Mr. Comrade, and only your question is advertising. It is advertising because it gives the political leadership of the Ministry of Finance an opportunity to unfold the legislative poems that we jointly voted for in the previous period, but also to assess the course of implementation together. The fact that from twenty applications in the first scheme we went to fifty-seven in the second shape and have confirmed EUR 10,000 000 in taxes, which we would not otherwise have received, as you quite rightly pointed out, shows the size of success. The fact that from eight pensioners in 2020 we went to two hundred pensioners in 2021 and we are still in the first half of the year shows the success rate of this initiative. This support is the third initiative. The framework of the tax incentives which has been supplemented, as you rightly say in your question, by Mr L.4758/2020. Where are we aiming here now? We aim to attract foreign workers from self-employed and Greeks who left the country during the health crisis. Under the provisions of this law since the 2021 tax year - we have legislation this much more recently - the natural person who transfers his tax residence to Greece has been subject to seven tax years - it also gives me this opportunity to recall the basic features of the legislative initiatives that we jointly voted on - in a special way of taxing income on an employed person and business activity resulting from domestic activity, provided that there are cumulatively specific conditions in place. The taxpayer is exempted from income tax and from the specific solidarity contribution of 50% of the income from employed and entrepreneurial activity acquired in Greece, while the annual objective expenditure on housing and private car does not apply. Although the application process has just begun, after the adoption of relevant ministerial decisions, sixty-seven applications have already been submitted, of which thirteen concern employees and the remaining thirty-nine free professionals and fifteen individual businesses. This government initiative therefore attracts a great deal of interest to employees, free professionals and individual businesses. I recently visited some businesses in northern Greece, Thessaloniki. In some of them I saw citizens from other countries, in this particular case Italian, who brought his tax home to Greece through these regimes. So, in practice, we have seen how the country can benefit significantly. I have told you, in less than a year - I stress, in less than a year - that we have more than five hundred cases of citizens, investors, pensioners, free professionals and workers of Greeks who had left abroad and have already made applications to benefit from these tax regimes. And finally, fourthly, the framework for attracting to Greece natural persons with tax residences abroad was complemented by what law? By Law No 4778/2021, a law very recent, which lays down clear and transparent rules for the establishment and operation of companies for the purpose of managing family property. In conclusion, Mr Colleagues, the Ministry of Finance closely monitors the implementation of the new provisions, adopts the necessary legislative acts and decisions to ensure that the regulatory framework is fully clear and complete. By evaluating the implementation of these regulations so far, we are making the necessary adjustments and - to answer this question also - to further facilitate the compliance of taxpayers, strengthen transparency and attract more natural persons from abroad. Indeed, due to the increased interest of the taxpayers, an extension of the deadline for the submission of applications for this year was granted. And that's a statement of how successful the shapes we're going to legislate are. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Mr Colleague, in closing, because I know your particular interest in this direction, taxation is an extremely useful tool to achieve development and investment objectives, apart from ensuring public revenue. The tax arrangements must therefore go hand in hand with the rapid economic and social changes. The pandemic took us back inevitably. At the same time, however, there was also a catalyst for a number of major changes. I would like to ask the President-in-Office of the Council whether he would like to make a statement on this matter. It is clear from the figures for the first period of application of the new provisions - and I conclude, Mr President - that, despite the unfavourable circumstance of the pandemic, the resonance of the new tax incentives is extremely encouraging and we have already legislated other tax incentives, such as housing and construction, which you have asked me a moment ago, for tax incentives specifically for the first three years through many different legislative initiatives. Greece goes beyond the crisis with project and confidence, recovers and develops and is open to attracting investment and human capital, domestic investment, public and private, foreign investment, capital and foreign income. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-28-S2-commons.u64	Thank you, too, Minister. We continue with the fifth under No 882/18-6-2021 topical question by MP B1' North Athens of the Change Movement Mr. Andreas Loverdos to the Foreign Minister, on the subject: 'Assessment of the application of the Prespecies Agreement and whether the other arrangements of this agreement are finally applied, except for the use of the name of Northern Macedonia'. The State Secretary for Foreign Affairs, Mr. Konstantinos Frangoyannis, will answer. Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-28-S2-commons.u65	Mr President, thank you for understanding. Minister, thank you for coming to answer my question. For those who have suffered a loss of remembrance, I would remind the House that, when the Prespecies' Agreement came to the House for ratification, our party, the PASOK, the Change Movement, was against, but did not participate in marching with MPs or his members, except for a minimum of exceptions. We had one point of objection, but we have identified it with a sense of responsibility in Parliament with too many arguments. As a parliamentary representative, I have had the honour of writing them. On the contrary, the party to whose government you belong, Minister, participated in the movement, if not officially, but with its most prominent members. The government changed after 2019 and I, as a Member of the Opposition and then today, consistently in the positions I hold and never my patriotism, which I feel and feel, to turn him into a profession, asked, by addressing the Minister of Foreign Affairs, what was the other issues regulated by the Ambassadors' Agreement, except by name, the name of the language, the name of nationality. The Convention itself provides - and in the House at that time we are debating the other issues at the initiative of the Members of the then government and of the Ministers. In fact, the majority at the time underlined the other issues, telling us that 'to give solutions to a number of problems'. Article 8(5) of the Agreement. It must be done within one month of signing the agreement, namely in 2018, by exchanging diplomatic communications from the Ministries of Foreign Affairs on an equal footing, a joint multidisciplinary committee of experts on a number of issues, including the writings in schools, the writing of history and so on. Our first question: did this committee become? After three years, did he yield results? The second question: the agreement has to be established - the Supreme Cooperation Council, which will meet and make reports. After more than three years, I wonder, was this high board formed? It is under the responsibility and under the supervision of the Foreign Ministers, us and them. Did this board become? Give us a report on how things have gone. One year government SYRIZA, two years New Democracy Government, in total three. But Greece is above all. Let's see how we serve her. Thirdly, a joint ministerial committee for better cooperation in a number of areas of economic cooperation and so on. Here you are, personally. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm closing, Mr. President. I ask these questions, I get an answer from Mr. Treasury. It does not satisfy a Member of Parliament, even the youngest in this Chamber, who tells me that everything is going well. It tells me everything's going well, nothing more and that the government, etc. I can read it in my denture and perhaps read a village. When I see the State Department doesn't answer me, I address the Prime Minister with a question. Look, I haven't asked a timely question to come to the Hall. I, my patriotism, do not make him a profession or a means of parliamentary display. But I was expecting a response of informative and, if you like, the statement of a committee. None of this. Mr. Gerapitris answers me on behalf of the Prime Minister, as usual, but the answer is written to a first person, that is to say, the Prime Minister, who says, “Mr. Dendias answered you, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs”, which had not answered me. Look, there is opposition in this Chamber, and indeed serious, no lurking, when you say the alpha we call the omega. But there is also a home, which we all stand for. Here you are charged with answering this question: Is the agreement being implemented by other parties, or is the development of the agreement being ignored for other reasons, perhaps politicians that opposition does not know about?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-28-S2-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr. Loverdo. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-28-S2-commons.u67	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Loverdos, neither of us do patriotism, both the government and I personally have a great deal of respect for the House and for the opposition, and I take everything you have said very seriously. You will allow me to mention the following: in today's question with number 882, as you say, you are coming back and repeat questions which you have already asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, as you said a moment ago - it is the question number 57/16-24-2021, as well as with the Prime Minister with Question 6384/6-5-2021 - which we believe have actually answered. I can only repeat that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has taken care of all the means it has for the full, consistent and good faith in the implementation of all the provisions of the Prespecies Agreement. It shall take all appropriate steps to deal with the delays or deficiencies identified by the other side. Implementation of the provisions of the agreement is an essential element of our bilateral relations with the neighbouring country, and we have ensured that it becomes an essential prerequisite for the progress of its accession process in the European Union. As part of the implementation of this agreement, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs ensures, a year's product and for the widest possible use of all the existing possibilities for developing our bilateral relations, particularly in the economic and energy sectors, always in order to serve the national interest. That's all.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-28-S2-commons.u68	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. Here, Mr. Loverdos, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-28-S2-commons.u69	Mr President, tabling this topical question was the last instrument the Opposition had to have in order to get a response that suits our culture, our political culture, and which is also in line with our love for our country. Now, what the Deputy Minister read in the Chamber is exactly the same or at least the same as the answer given to me by Mr. Dendias, which I will read to the public: "The position of the Greek Government for the Prespecies Agreement is known. It is also known that Greece, in the context of respect for international law and constitutional law, respects and consistently implements the international agreements it has concluded and takes effect. Likewise and on the basis of the fundamental principle of international law “pacta sunt servanda” - the agreements must be respected - the Republic of Northern Macedonia is bound by the Prespecies Agreement and must apply it as a whole. "The Ministry of Foreign Affairs shall ensure by using all the means it has for its full, consistent and sound implementation of the provisions of the Agreement. It shall take all appropriate steps, when delays or deficiencies are detected on the part of the other side. "Achieving the provisions of the Agreement is an essential element of our bilateral relations with the neighbouring country and an essential prerequisite for the progress of its accession process in the European Union. "In the context of the implementation of the Agreement, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs shall ensure that all existing possibilities for developing bilateral relations are exploited, particularly in the economic and energy sectors, with a view to serving the national interest. "I therefore, as you know, regularly and thoroughly inform Parliamentary parties in both the Permanent Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs of the Parliament and the National Foreign Policy Council." How can I answer without answering? I just don't answer. My questions have been raised here in this House, Mr Secretary-General, namely: have the committees come up? What work has been produced in the past few years? What work has been done under the supervision of the Foreign Ministers of the two countries? Can you answer us on this particular point? It seems that you do not want the House to wonder why you do not want to, because you have abandoned the agreement. Since its ratification, the Bulgarians have told our neighbours that you are wrongly saying to yourself and the Greeks that you speak Macedonian language or that you are Macedonians. Bulgarians themselves pose a problem in the course of this country in the European Union. You, who promised in this House that, in view of the evolution of the implementation of the agreement, you would also see its course in the European Union, you were the first to take part in the CFSP Parliamentary Assembly and I remember it as now in Zagreb, March 2020, you were the first to go together with Albania and start their accession negotiations, while nothing was applied on the part of the agreement. Where are you going with this? Have you been through a recent memory loss? It's for me now. You don't remember what you were saying in the House as a military opposition. As a government, however, you must respect the Chamber. Leave the many words and the thick ones, I ask something specific: give me a progress report! Give us a progress report! If you do not do so in your answer again, then the Greek Parliament knows that the government is hiding something from it, that the government does not want to speak, who knows why.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-28-S2-commons.u70	Here, Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-28-S2-commons.u71	No memory loss, Mr. Loverdos! We very well remember the agreement, our disagreements with this, that it is an agreement that we could have done in a different way, in different terms, in clearer terms, which would make it easier and simpler, but nevertheless, Mr Loverdo, we are called upon to implement, because there is a continuation in the state, because we have to implement the agreement, because one part of it is in the interests of our national interests and we are called upon to find the way in which we will best implement it, overcoming all the difficulties - practices and others - which the agreement includes. What we have done is to work very hard on a diplomatic level and you have seen the dozens of trips we have made in our neighbourhood countries, in order to create the conditions for the Western Balkans finally to become members of the European Union and the European Union not to hide the black holes that are currently in our neighborhood. We have provided technical assistance related to the country's recovery, technical assistance in resources coming from the European Union. We have a strong presence in the Balkans and we are politically present in all developments. We support Hellenism in all these countries, we support, at the level of economic diplomacy, the businesses that are active in all these countries, building bridges in the field of culture and arts. We are creating a cognitive level that is necessary to come closer. We work together in critical areas, such as the difficult months of the pandemic, offering technical and other assistance to all these countries in our neighbourhood. We are building a dialogue, we are creating a debate, we are dealing with issues and we are promoting energy projects, such as the interconnector, which will bring natural gas from TAP to northern Macedonia and from there to the other Balkan countries, as has already been completed - almost complete - the IGB project linking Greece and Bulgaria. We have confidence in each other in order to be able to deal with all the issues covered by the Prespecies Agreement and others that are not provided for by the Prespecies Agreement, because the good neighbours are dealing with their issues regardless of the framework of this agreement you have referred to. We create good neighbourly relations, giving examples of writing, we monitor the writing samples that others show and react in line with national interests. Mr Loverdo, we see in the future and it is important from this position that you do not react by managing the current situation alone, but that you see five, ten years ahead and do responsiblely what politics is called on to do, handle the feeling towards our neighbours, the geography which does not change, the logic that each bilateral or multilateral agreement we sign with and at the same time we can assume the responsibility behind everything we do, everything we organise and every step that we take in our policy in the Balkans. The Prespecies Agreement is a part of our relationship with the Republic of Northern Macedonia. There is also our bilateral relationship with her, there is all the diplomatic actions we are doing to be good neighbours and to be able to give samples of writing to both us and them to us. We see, watch and react. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-28-S2-commons.u72	Thank you, too, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minutes of Wednesday 31 March 2021, Thursday 1 April 2021, Friday 2 April 2021, Monday 5 April 2021, Wednesday 7 April 2021, Thursday 8 April 2021, Friday 9 April 2021, Monday 12 April 2021, Wednesday 14 April 2021, Thursday 15 April 2021, Friday 16 April 2021, Monday 19 April 2021 and Wednesday 21 April 2021 have been distributed and the House is asked whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-28-S2-commons.u73	The Minutes of Wednesday 31 March 2021, Thursday 1 April 2021, Friday 2 April 2021, Monday 5 April 2021, Wednesday 7 April 2021, Thursday 8 April 2021, Friday 9 April 2021, Monday 12 April 2021, Wednesday 14 April 2021, Thursday 15 April 2021, Friday 16 April 2021, Monday 19 April 2021 and Wednesday 21 April 2021 were ratified. The third question will be discussed under number 878/17-6-2021 of the SYRIZA MEP - Progressive Alliance Mr.Alexandros - Christou Ayloniti to the Minister of Culture and Sports, on the subject: "The abolition of admission ticket to the Old Fortress of Corfu". Mr. Aylonite, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-28-S2-commons.u74	Thank you, Mr President. I hope that in my question, Mrs Mendoni, she will not respond like the State Secretary for Foreign Affairs. It's so simple the question I'm sure it'll be a simple answer. You will tell me why such a simple question has turned it into a timely question. I would simply like, Minister, and thank you for coming to me, to highlight the specificity of the relationship between the surrounding city of Corfu, the two fortresses, and its urban fabric. It has been debated very strongly for years in my own country. We are not the only ones who have the monopoly, we very much love our city, its surroundings and its fortresses, and we would really like this to happen with the whole web of the city, so that our town and its inhabitants can have an economic, cultural and, above all, social connection with these two fortresses. Why am I saying that I want emphatically to stress this? Because I was very impressed by the fact: a discussion in Corfu society has developed a few days before I put this timely question about the ticket that someone has to pay to get into the old fortress, but also the new fortress is also free, not to need a ticket. The ticket has been there for a long time, but there is essentially a discreet possibility for the person who controls the entrance to the old fortress, if someone resident of Corfu goes to the side of the fortress to leave or in any case not to cause any particular problem. Now, however, a very long debate is taking place, which, as I said a moment ago, has the characteristics of a mass view, overall, that the ticket to the fortress, which is part of our city, should be abolished for the citizens of Corfu and it will be a very clear political and social move on the part of your Ministry to abolish it. Of course, I am aware that this will run counter to the positions of the European Union that it wants and the citizens of the European Union to be treated in the same way. If the visitors of our city are to be cut off, the same will have to be offered to Corfu citizens. In this sense, I ask you whether you are aware of this public debate that is taking place in Corfu on the exploitation of the two fortresses in the social and economic life of the island and, if so, what implementation plan you have made to date and if you intend to apply the abolition of the ticket to the fortress, so that this flagrant injustice is no longer suffered at the expense of the local society which, to a large extent, is prevented from entering a part of its city. She thinks it's part of her town. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-28-S2-commons.u75	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-28-S2-commons.u76	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much for your question. Before I get to the point, I should like to tell you that what actually applies to Greek citizens anywhere in the country is also valid for European citizens. That is foreseeable and nothing else can be done. The price currently in force not only in the Old Fortress of Corfu, but also in the entire organized and visited archaeological sites and museums of the country, was established in 2019 by the Government of SYRIZA. In fact, the joint ministerial decision of the then Ministers of Culture, namely Mrs Zorba and Mr Army, and the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Juliarakis, was published a few days before the national elections on 1 July 2019. Also, as you said - I am specific - the ticket to the Old Fortress of Corfu was institutionalised in 1991. It's been too many decades now. According to the current CYA, which determines the ticket fee in this case, as in all the archaeological sites and museums, the entrance is free for all visitors to all the archaeological sites of the country, thus and Corfu, specific days, such as the first Sunday of each month from November 1st to March 31st, as well as certain official celebrations or days dedicated to monuments and culture, for example the 18th May dedicated to International Museum Day or the 18th of April dedicated to International Monuments Day, as well as many others. Therefore, the inhabitants of the island are not excluded from the visit to the fortress. There is the possibility of visiting it at the specific dates that are not very few, while care is taken for the free entry of workers into services within the fortress, as well as to the citizens who trade with them, i.e. the general archives of the state, the public central library of Corfu, to students and staff of the Department of Music of the Ionian University. Also, employees and members of the Corfu Sailing Club, who are housed in the port of Mandraki of the old fortress, do not pay a ticket. So there are a lot of people who are being facilitated without paying a ticket and rightly. With regard to your question about the use of the old and the new fortress, I have told you from this Step of the House in previous discussions that the issue of the overall emergence and exploitation of the fortress is a priority for the Ministry of Culture. I would remind you that in the five years 2015-2019 it did not carry out any such work. However, as I have told you, given the lack of a strategic plan to highlight the fortresses after a visit to Corfu and after my instructions, the competent services of the Ministry of Culture proceeded with the procedures for drawing up the plan for the management of the old and new fortress. The specifications for the preparation of the management plan were approved by the archaeological board in September 2020. The specific management plan is already drawn up in the cooperation of the National Technical University of Athens with the relevant departments of the Ministry of Culture, i.e. the Department of Byzantine and Post-Byzantine Antiquities, the Department of Antiquities Corfu, the Department of Restoration of Byzantine and Post-Byzantine Monuments and the Department of Conservation of Ancient and New Monuments. Symptoms of the time that we are discussing here, I tell you that from 9 to 12 July, a step in the co-operating services of the Ministry together with the Polytechnological Research team will visit Corfu in order to demarcate the needs of the two fortresses, to record the problems and proposals in the context already approved by the Central Archaeological Council and at the same time to investigate their connection with the old city of Corfu. This management plan includes, inter alia, the collection of all information on the parameters of the broader fortress environment that will have a positive or negative impact on the recording and documentation of specific things, such as the natural and cultural environment of those monuments for their future interconnection with the other cultural goods of the city for educational tourist and communication purposes. Secondly, the urban environment of the fortresses. Thirdly, the involved operators and, fourthly, the correlation between the two fortresses and economic activities of the region in particular tourism. You realise that, with this, a large and ambitious programme has been put in place to highlight the two fortresses in order to make use of the available financial instruments of the new NSRF and the Recovery Fund since 2022. The proposals that will arise will be a product of interdisciplinary cooperation in accordance with international conditions, the principles of science and Law 3028/2002. The issues relating to the operation of the city are clear that, at the end of the drafting of the management plan, they will be consulted in order to take account of the proposals and observations of residents and local actors. I close, Mr Papoutsis, by saying that this is the first time that a coordinate plan is being drawn up for the management of two very important monuments, the Modern and Old Fortress of Corfu, which I fully agree with you is included in the monumental totality of the old city of Corfu. But that would require a system, proposals from specialist scientists, consultation of the city and, ultimately, projects. Projects which in 2015-2019 were simply not touched. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-28-S2-commons.u77	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr Colleague, Mr Aylonite, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-28-S2-commons.u78	Madam Minister, to the other questions that I have asked you and which have been discussed here, you have permanently discussed the 'on government SYRIZA' and so on. The fortresses are there centuries old. This kind of social issue is constantly being put into the tide of party controversy. That is not right in my view. I come as a Member of Parliament to tell you and to convey to you the problems of society and to seek their solution. I say this because there is a major difference that you have not answered me. The new fortress, which has exactly the same construction conditions and is part of the city's social and economic fabric, does not have a ticket. On the contrary, the Old Fortress of Corfu has a ticket. And as you rightly said, it should be part of the single policy of the Ministry of Culture in relation to the payment of a price at the time of its entry. But he seems right. Because as you said before in the old fortress - I am talking about its inclusion as part of the old city - the university works, the historical archive, the public library, the Byzantine collection of Corfu, the services of the Ministry of Culture, exhibition and events rooms, free spaces, many events. Above all, the old fortress is inextricably linked to the daily lives of the citizens. What does the Corfiot citizen want? In the walk he makes in the old town he has the ability to enter his fortress and take a walk. On the contrary, you are telling me that you rightly have to pay a EUR 3 or EUR 6 ticket, depending on the case and this need for it to be covered only in some days that you mentioned earlier. That's not what we're asking, Minister. We ask that both fortresses be treated in the same way, that the Corfu citizen have access to both in the same way, without paying a ticket, especially to the old fortress. To be quickly implemented by the management plan of the two guards of the old and new. Above all, to answer how the old fortress and the new fortress can be integrated into the city's social, economic and housing fabric. This will be the great achievement that any government will do with great importance and I would say national services in this place that has a strong historical and cultural burden. That's what I'm asking and I'm not asking for a party confrontation of the type what you're doing in 2014, 2015, 2016 and 2017. You realize that what I'm asking is a simple political move, so that the congressman and resident of Corfu who loves you, as you love your country, or anyone who does not have the financial capacity, can take a walk to the fortress and take his walk. Simple as that. The more complex the matter is, the more complex your answer is, we get away from the specific answer I ask. Can you implement the same economic policy as in the new fortress? I mean, don't let the people of Corfu pay a ticket. If there is a problem with the European Union going beyond it, so that no one who enters the old fortress does not pay a ticket, no matter what country it is? Is that what you can answer? That is the question, and I would ask you very much to answer it to me in your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-28-S2-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Madam Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-28-S2-commons.u80	Mr Papoutsis, I think I was very clear in my reply, but perhaps for some reason you do not want to understand it. Still, let's sort things out one more time. First of all, it is not surprising that nothing has happened between 2015 and 2019 and I have no intention of party confrontation. But it is a reality that is objective. It's four and a half years lost, whether it's like it or not. Time, numbers, numbers are something objective. Let's go later now. First of all, I answered what you asked with a basic argument about what we were doing, which if it had been a few decades ago or four years ago or five years ago, it would just be over now. I told you that our priority is the two fortresses, and that is why we are currently working not on our own but on the Metsovio Polytechnics, a specific management plan which will create the framework for an integrated management of the two fortresses. It was a strategic option to move forward in the preparation of a management plan to record and tackle holisticly all the issues related to fortresses and the city, introducing a strategic planning, setting priorities, goals and timetables and fully covering all aspects of their management in line with modern international perceptions. It's not that simple to say we're removing a ticket for everyone. Obviously, we're dealing with public revenue. So these are all things that are evaluated and costed. These are things that are part of the management. I repeat for the third time that the result of the management mode is the result of this management plan, the master plan, the strategic planning that we are already working on. In the New Fortress of Corfu, we don't have a ticket, but we could get a ticket. We did not do so at the moment, because it makes no sense to draw up such a management plan. This management plan will document everything holistic and then the Ministry of Culture will see what it will do. We'll see what we'll do. On the other hand, I have said quite thoroughly that everyone who has any professional, educational or other employment relationship with the area does not pay a ticket and they are too much. Let us not forget that. On the other hand, in the two fortresses at the moment - so, to give you an overall picture - various projects are being developed, such as the restoration of the fortification section and projects to improve the accessibility of disabled people, the emergence of the protagonist front in the Old Fortress of Corfu, access to the area of the sea moat and the Savorgnan battalion. The importance of the monuments and the old town of Corfu itself, which is one of the most important fortified cities in the Mediterranean with huge-scale technical constructions, led us to this choice, to the management plan and, at the same time, to develop projects. Corfu is absolutely interested in the Ministry of Culture. I would remind you that the restoration of the Martinengo bassion has already been integrated into the projects financed by the Recovery Fund. Be sure that the projects and actions proposed by the two fortress management plan under way will make a full contribution to the economic and social development of the place with full respect for the universal value of the monumental whole of Corfu, because they are all linked to each other. The plan will, however, be completed, approved and implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-28-S2-commons.u81	Thank you too, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-28-S2-commons.u82	With the consent of the House at 18.26 hours the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Tuesday, 29 June 2021, at 10.00, on the subject of this House's work: legislative work, according to the agenda that has been distributed to you.
