ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 21-4-2021, PIO's minutes were ratified at its meeting of Wednesday, 21 April 2021, with regard to the vote on the entire draft law: ‘State aid to enterprises and non-profit-making bodies for natural disasters, urgent arrangements for economic support, supplementary State budget and pension regulation’.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the supplementary agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all draft law of the Ministry of Justice: 'Code of Justice'. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 15 April 2021 to discuss the draft law at a single sitting in principle, articles and amendments. With regard to the organisation of the debate, it is naturally proposed that the rapporteurs, the special speakers, the parliamentary representatives and a one-sided circle comprising one speaker from each parliamentary group and one twelve-member circle of speakers with the ratio: five New Democracy, three SYRIZA and one of the other four parties parliamentary groups. A teleconferencing service shall also be proposed for a 12-mile circle of speakers with the same ratio. The names of the speakers, as you know, have already been appointed by the Parliamentary Groups in letters on this subject. Does the House agree at the beginning of the procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u2	The House agreed. We are starting with the rapporteur, Mr Lazaros Tsavdaridis, for 15 minutes. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, a bill of major importance is currently coming to the House today, and it updates the Code of Judiciary after twenty years. A piece of legislation, a footprint of the philosophy of the New Democracy Government, which is based on the axes of innovation, reforms and quality interventions and takes the best form possible thanks to the spirit of cooperation, the focus on dialogue and the commitment to substantial convergences. A new Code of Judiciary, which has been our programme commitment, fully compatible with the realisation that as justice is a dynamic concept that evolves over the years, thus evolving and changing with the years and the context within which the concepts of productivity and efficiency of its services are delineated. A new, state-of-the-art code that is a natural continuation of modernization, as well as a renovation of a fertile effort of the previous Prefecture Committee, designed to meet the modern needs and requirements of justice, as well as of the officials who serve it with dignity, dedication and an excess sense of duty. The common location of the conclusions, as they have emerged from the positions of the large majority of representatives of the institutions, is the feeling that the new code is directly facing a series of organisational and operational problems of the Judiciary, while at the same time improving the quality of the justice system in our country. This common place was also certified by the fact that despite the expected disagreements on a few issues both SYRIZA and KINAL by their rapporteurs, they voted in favour of the bill at first. In his two hundred and thirty-five articles, the bill that came to the vote today rationalises and upgrades the administrative support of justice, correcting omissions, balancing procedures, modernising frameworks and maximising positive prospects, related to the service situation, working development, graduation structure and the aptitude assessment of officials and heads. Ensuring the specific institutional status of judicial officers as a means of independent justice, establishing a personal register, introducing the institution of evaluation of heads of government, greater transparency in the selection of heads of directors of general management, management and department, extending the evaluation criteria beyond and above simple knowledge of the subject and sterile formal qualifications in those of qualitative behavioural interaction in the working environment, creativity in the performance of the tasks, as well as in the positive example, but also in the strong impact that his working presence leaves on the environment in which he acts, are the main features of this assessment framework. In addition, it settles a number of outstanding issues which lacked valuable staff within our judiciary, firstly by definitively resolving and across-the-board acceptance of the thorny staff situation of officials with regard to the work of private law indefinitely, secondly, by abolishing, by Article 4, the anachronistic ceiling of the age of appointment and thirdly, by adapting the provisions of the new code to the Code of Civil Service and to the issues of the well-organised administration of the judicial service in order to mobilise the existing officials, but also by reversing a stereotypical view of the difficult work and not at all attractive, due to the high number of tasks, conditions in the field of judicial officers. A well-established stereotype which, unfortunately, even the pale of interest in filling the relevant posts, in the last two AACC competitions, where half of the posts declared were not paid, although there was a very large number of appointments of judicial officers. In addition to this, the new Code of Judiciary modernises and shields our legal system within the oceans of the modern digital world, in which unavoidable navigation, but also the harmonisation of justice, is as full of opportunities for exploitation and risk avoidance. In this respect, the establishment with this Legislation of two new, independent branches of specialised judicial officers in new specific fields, such as legal documentation, communication and international relations, which will assist the judicial officers in their judicial work, is considered absolutely essential. Why do you have to? Because, with the first area of judicial documentation and assistance, as described in Articles 23 to 65, the ground for adequate support for judicial officers is finally being laid down, first of all in the highest courts by providing, among other things, legislative, legal and bibliographical documentation by specialised officials in competition proceedings. While the establishment of the judicial and international relations sector with Articles 66 to 82 ensures the safeguarding of the institutional role of justice through the sound and timely communication management of information to and from the point of view of justice, as well as the protection of citizens from inaccurate information. Oddly, of course, the Opposition dealt with these two innovative regulations, which are not only based on already documented, tested, but also well established good practice of advanced judicial systems other than the European Union, as well as several other judicial systems outside it, but also enjoy the approval of all the supreme courts in the country, other than the Ice Bay, which had just expressed some reservations. With regard to the first of these two arrangements, she founded her refusal on strange and uncomfortable arguments concerning alleged intervention by those officials in the judicial work and in the role of judge, as if the judges were inappropriate children's or inexperienced trainees, rather than powerful personalities with huge experience, excellently trained at the National School of Judges and completely independent of doing their duty in accordance with Article 87 of the Constitution. So how exactly does the Opposition imagine that the households, facilitation, speeding up and conducting the massive judicial work in the highest courts in the country will be reached when it blocks the absolutely necessary staffing potential that will provide valuable aid to elements, production, preparation and legal indexation of our judges and prosecutors? Same awkwardness and fearfulness with regard to the second innovative regulation, this sector of judicial communication and international relations. At the time when it is uncomfortable for the courts to respond to this need, while the judiciary is considered that it should not have a public say, but should be expressed only by means of its decisions, but also by a lack of support structures in the field of international relations which will enable the courts to respond effectively to the needs created by increasing the participation of courts in international fora, exchanges of visits and the promotion of national case-law abroad, the opposition chooses to raise objections as to the shadow. Ladies and gentlemen, the government is not prepared to allow the outdated and outdated to determine the pace of the new era. And in this direction proves that he knows and hears and adopts and corrects, but also exceeds. Only in this legislation is the Minister today making twenty-three - please - legislative improvements which are incorporated into the text. He said it and he did it. Like for over a year and a half, the Government of New Democracy and the Ministry of Justice, with works and not in words, have shown the particular importance it attaches to the overall reform of the area of justice for the benefit, not only of its officials and employees, but above all of the Greek citizens themselves. This is a reform that has already made substantial progress in the promotion of mediation in civil and commercial matters, in improving the coordination of the various services and bodies responsible for combating corruption, in speeding up the procedures for the award of major cases with a large development footprint through the creation of special sections, in codifying the Court of Auditors' procedure to speed up the enforcement of cases having a financial effect, in creating the legislative framework for the establishment of the Office of Justice Statistics, which will enable the mapping of the existing situation, in strengthening the intellectual capacity by increasing the organic positions of judicial officers, in establishing the direction of the peacekeepers at the National School of Justice, an initiative that marks a new era in the industry, and in particular in the rapid digitisation of justice, a digitisation that has so far been issued by more than a hundred thousand digital certificates from judicial authorities, the criminal record being requested and delivered electronically, and can only be awarded more than six thousand electronically and can be awarded by electronic means. This is a reform which does not end here, but will continue, always in good cooperation with all the institutions and representatives of our legal world, never in secret and never depriving us of the highest respect for our justice and democracy. Unlike unacceptable attempts to work justice shortly before the July 2019 elections on micro-group benefits, as unfortunately the former Minister of State said recently about the previous SYRIZA Government himself. The Government of New Democracy will be at the forefront of the cross-party - I want to hope - an effort to improve the quality of our legal system and to multiply the added value that this gives our society and our culture as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u4	Thank you. The general rapporteur of SYRIZA, Mr Theophilos Xanthiopoulos, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u5	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is essentially the fourth session of the Legislative Assembly on this bill. We have developed the major and essentials throughout this process. After the latest developments and additions and the remarks of the Minister, I think we should look again at a number of issues in order to keep their prints on both the National Representation and the Greek people. We know very well, and those of us who are around justice and, above all, citizens, that the problems of justice are institutional and operational. With this bill, therefore, the Ministry is trying to tackle the operational problems of justice with regard to the judicial service. I want to say this again - we have told the committees too - that it is essentially a need for society, because the proper and rapid administration of justice concerns the entire Greek people. We in the SYRIZA government have taken the initiative, set up the Legislative Committee, which has reached the conclusion that it is the basis of the debate on this legislative initiative of the Government, and that is why we voted 'yes' in the first place, because a large part echoes SYRIZA's views on the functioning of justice, helps to address the problems we have previously highlighted, has the support of the large part of the judicial officers, because we know very well that if it is not supported by those who are concerned with any reform and no initiative can have a happy end. We are very well aware that the main problems we are facing today in the part on which we are discussing are, first of all, the sub-commitment of the courts and their intensification with the continuous retirement and non-renewal of staff. We know that the work that officials are doing is in very difficult circumstances, since they work in poorly maintained buildings without adequate technical support and even reduced the support and use of new technologies. In this part, as SYRIZA, we took an initiative to record and distribute political trials. The first phase of the integrated judicial management system was completed in political, criminal and administrative courts, which now increasingly allows the movement of electronic documents. So these figures which have been constantly being heard in Parliament in recent times and the satisfaction felt by the majority Members of Parliament of the rapid and exponential increase in electronic documentaries, has a background and an infrastructure that is based on SYRIZA's governance, and that is why we are proud. What we are criticising the government is that, for a year and a half now, the system of electronic handling of procedural documents has remained inactive or has not been extended at all. As we left it in the four pilot prototypes, in the same way it remains. Moreover, the disadvantage of the judicial officers is the absence of any kind of specialised training and continuing training. Another institutional problem, which we know from those who are serving in the courts, is the intense service dependency of officials on the court's director. This has an intrinsic weakness, because the judiciary, apart from its main tasks, has the interference of the administrative functions of the courts and you realise that it is difficult, if not impossible, to be sufficient in both cases. It takes care of the main judicial work, which is the adoption of judgments and their involvement in the compositions of courts - criminal or political - with the result that the administrative procedures of judges, tribunals and tribunals are considerably less. Finally, it is the unfair treatment of employees, and even becomes unjust, precisely because it is not recognised overtime in a job which, by its very nature, does not have any hours or days. We know very well that the courts will often work and after the hours have elapsed. We also know that self-sufficient, self-sufficient procedures, as their definition says, do not have days or hours. With the bill, we solve the problem of the large number of civil servants of private law indefinitely, precisely because they were employees without full rights and, above all, could not participate and contribute to the functioning of justice. This is a positive attitude to this draft law. Finally, there are particularities in relation to the mobility of officials between the courts and the public services concerned, because the latter cannot, first of all, become a vehicle of further subordination of the courts or of a staff weakening them by or for the sake of other powers and services. I have referred to the problems we, as SYRIZA, have pointed out the difficult functioning of the courts and the obstacles that have been set by definition in the efficient functioning of the courts. At its initiative, the Government introduces two new bodies, two new agencies - to say better - to the functioning of the courts, for which we have strongly criticised both the parties to the opposition and the Ice Board plenary session with the administrative assembly, by decision 4 of 2019, if I am not deceived, as well as the Federation of Judiciary officials. The first category of workers to be created by this bill is the category of staff who will provide assistance and assistance to the work of judges. Here there are very serious issues, which we call on the majority of the House, the proposed component to think very well about what a slippery road it opens. The text and the precise activity of these officials shall not be sufficiently specified. When we say, they will have supportive action, what exactly do we mean? Because today, as this is described, we very much fear that, under the pressure of needs and under the state of the pending documents, they will be given informally, but essentially the responsibilities and responsibilities of the judge, who has constitutionally guaranteed rights and the responsibility, of course, and the knowledge, to carry out the judicial decision. The employee, however trained he is, is not a judge. And I would like to say, on account of the fact that the improvement of case-law, the finding of case-law is not a technical issue on which we give indiscriminate opinions. It is a deep scientific issue, in which the judiciary chooses, judges, disguises the cases ahead of him from a legal point of view and chooses with what he will cost, what will follow, what is basically the presumptions of the proper administration of justice and thus integrate it into his own decision. So it is either hypocritical or naive to say that the clerk will bring the case law chosen by the judge to the judge. It is a key point on which we really have not received a substantial response. I have repeatedly said the objections. Is it in the court’s support to point out the contradictions between the witness’s statements? Who is he who, in the internal relations of a judge and a clerk, can judge that here is the limit, if not the law? And why is it not clearly described, in detail, so that the official knows that he does not exceed his own institutional role, but that the judge also knows that he cannot demand such behaviour from the official? I am very well aware of the majority's argument that this type of institution, this type of procedure, exist in other legal classes in our own Europe. Of course, but there is a different legal system. I do not want to talk about the American system or the Anglo-Saxon countries in general, which is a contrasting system and has other predictions. For Greece, I think we are opening up the bourgeoisie of Halos and possibly having problems with the administration of justice, because it is precisely because people who do not have the formal and substantive competence in this regard will be involved in the adoption of decisions. Also, insert the new institution of communication, the representation of the Supreme Courts, courageous and the presence or statement of the idea of justice is a technical topic, it is a porte parole issue and it is an issue that requires communication management. Of course you eat beans, beans, you testify, precisely because you realise that this is the way you deal with politics, that everything is communication management and possibly that communication management helps justice. Listen, ladies and gentlemen of the majority. Justice needs substantial deep, institutional areas. It needs the restoration of its prestige, it needs the care of its independence, it needs logistics and it needs continuous training. There is no need for a representative who is supposed to confront the make news and the various announcements from which the internet or the public sphere is found. Perhaps that's not a job of justice. But I understand very well how you approach it. So you've learned to make politics. So you continue to make politics on this point too. Finally, I would like, Minister, to mention this amendment that you have brought about a change in the definition of a commander at the beginning of laundry. I don't really understand that. An amendment was tabled after the end of the night. Is the House overnight? An amendment was tabled which I do not understand as a matter of urgency. Why are you pressing? Do you have anyone you intend to find and who needs to find the institutional framework ready? This is a very serious matter, and I invite you to think about it three times. In accordance with the provision, the President of the Authority shall be appointed as the Chief Prosecutor in active employment, with knowledge of the English language, chosen together with his Deputy, by decision of the Supreme Judicial Council. The Chairperson of the authority shall be full-time. The appointment of the President and the alternate shall be made by a decision of paragraph 6 within 15 days of notification of the decision of the Supreme Court of Justice of the Minister of Transparency and Human Rights. How are you, ladies and gentlemen of the majority? Minister, I want a very serious and substantiated explanation, because I am making bad thoughts, bad thoughts, such that they do not suit you, as a person, and above all the institution of the Minister of Justice. So you come with an amendment and say that you can also be appointed a public prosecutor in honor. The problem here is that, on the one hand, the retired judiciary provides less guarantees of operational and personal independence and, on the other, there is a problem in the way it is appointed. For as a pensioner, the Supreme Judicial Council - even a smaller sample of its independence than the existing regime - is not dealt with as a pensioner, but is appointed by a joint ministerial decision of the Ministers for Justice and Finance following the first proposal and the simple expression of the opinion of the Permanent Committee of Institutions and Transparency of Parliament. However, and if the committee were to be consulted, in which I am a member, and there are increased majorities, because of the strength of the principle of declared and without provision for a qualified majority, it would once again be the commander of the authority to be an exclusively governmental option. Listen to me, ladies and gentlemen. You are determined not to leave any presumption of objective operation in the country's public life, but we are equally determined to denounce you and to tell the Greek people that you have come as a hollow, as Armageddon, not only for industrial relations, but also for structures that are counterweight to the ever-expanding bourgeoisie of the executive. In this way, what you are legislating and want to bring back post-night amendments for the selection of the President of the Dumping Authority, you implicitly agree that your aim is to keep nothing out of control of your bourgeoisie as government authority. We won't allow it. The Greek people will not allow it. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u6	We shall now proceed with Mrs Constantina Giannakopoulou, who will speak via Webex on behalf of the Change Movement. Mrs. Yannakopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u7	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today in plenary the draft law entitled 'Code of Justice'. I think we have said so in the discussions of the committees that, of course, we should all bear in mind the specific role of judicial officers in the system of justice in our country. This importance characterises the position of these officials, because I think that, on the one hand, it reflects their contribution, if you like, to the day-to-day functionality of all the courts throughout Greece, but on the other hand it is precisely the reference to Article 92 of the Constitution. Indeed, the fact that a separate law has been provided for by other civil servants clearly shows, I think, that the state recognizes that judicial officers are and are treated and must be treated as a particular category of officials because of their status, namely to help independent justice. It is precisely for this reason that I think that any piece of legislation on this issue should be, it should be a result of sound dialogue, but also of proposals, which under no circumstances could and should not affect constitutionally guaranteed rights. Of course, I think the importance of all the proper interventions in the Rules of Procedure is easily understood if we consider, among others, that this draft law also comes within a very critical time, at a very critical juncture for the Greek reality, both in general and because of the situation in the courts throughout the country, with the suspension because of the pandemic, because of the coronary, of the full functioning of justice for more than a year. And that is very important. Minister, we have made clear our position at the first moment, namely that we are positive for the full legislative update, the modernisation of the Code of Judicial Officers, a mouse that has brought together, yes, the Legislative Committee set up by the previous government, the SYRIZA Government and has continued and been completed by your own in order to be able to respond to the current needs of the way of justice. Only so with such modernisation if you want, can the quality of the organization, staffing and functioning of justice be upgraded. And always in the right way, we are in favour of any initiative which promotes every sector of the Greek state and of the Greek society and which ensures the proper functioning, in accordance with the needs of the entire future. Of course, it is true that we had quite interesting discussions during the previous committees. It is a fact, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, that, in some parts of the bill, there was a joint and comprehensive response from all the representatives of the Representation, but also from the relevant bodies that we heard in committee, especially for the establishment of the two new branches of judiciary. I am talking about the Judiciary Documentation and Assistance Sector and, of course, the Judiciary Communications and International Relations Division. More specifically. I have already placed myself in the previous meetings, Minister, that we in a position of principle are positive in creating the necessary conditions to help Greek justice and there is absolutely no reason to delay its award by its officials. I have asked for good explanations on the sincere purpose of adopting certain provisions. And not just me and colleagues of the Confederal Group of the European United Left - Nordic Green Left. But you will allow me to tell you that I do not think the answers we have received were the most convincing ones. You have brought the code in accordance with the legislative procedure and you are doing so well. It is something that I recognise, because in this way you have been given the opportunity to take advantage of the possibilities provided for by the debate in this House, to hear our concerns and even our objections and, even now, to move on, Mr Minister, to something really consensual, as is appropriate and necessary. After all, you also mentioned this need for consensus at the first meeting of the committee. With regard to the third chapter and Articles 23 to 83 on the setting-up of the special branches of the Proofing and Assistance of Judicial Work and of the International Relations Committee, to say it simply of the assistant judges, what we first asked you to do in parallel with the change that you bring, is, above all, to realize the huge gaps, to realize the enormous deficiencies that exist in the positions of judges in the Greek courts, and to be able to take the necessary and necessary steps to fill these gaps. For it is certain that you know this after so many months in this position that you are covering that our country is at the lowest level of all the other European Union countries in terms of staffing judicial services. We are in the lowest position in terms of ensuring the necessary infrastructure in buildings, in information systems. And we are at the lowest positions in terms of the correct ratio of judges and secretaries. That is why, first and foremost, we have asked you and we ask you to do and move accordingly and immediately to fill these vacant posts, which is something that is stumbling and stumbling Greek justice very badly. We also mentioned the reflection, which I think would create in every good faith, the negative position of both the Administrative Assembly of the Ice Arena and the Association of Judges and Prosecutors, as well as the Federation of Greek Judiciary officials. I wonder, the Ice Bay judges, the Association of Judges and Prosecutors do not want to be helped in their work, Minister? Why would they be negative to something that you tell us you're bringing it to help them? It is obvious that with the solution you are projecting, it is if you want a new hybrid branch of officials in the courts. Of course, I would remind you and say again that at the same time you do not solve the chronic problems which we all know exist. So what you seem to be doing - in the way you bring it, I would like to stress - is that you are creating two-speed judicial officers, one speed with those who are in the current situation and, on the other hand, another speed of an elite, if you want, assistant judges, who, in addition to all others - and that is something that really makes it seem - will have the privileged treatment both wages and other ways - of developing and others - of other judicial officers. So here we do not have a clear position which justifies why the reform is being carried out, as you are saying. So I repeat - and I want it to be clear - that I sincerely fear that the attempt you are making is incomplete. And I honestly tell you, Minister, that I would be much more positive in my dealings with this institution and this change that you are trying to do, if you would see it much more flexible and with much more open definitions of qualifications, but also with responsibilities, but also with the need to recruit specialised scientists and not just legal persons who will file and classify the case-law, as provided for in this draft law, i.e. get lawyers to register and classify them. It would help, Minister, if the assistant judges were officials who - I say to you - possess specific formal qualifications and knowledge, which are necessary and necessary to assist the judicial work, such as, for example, to deal with economic cases - as I have told you in the committees - or complex loan contracts or financial disputes and fraud, which we all know is now much more specific to the way in which it is done, if I could say so. The knowledge of a civil servant specializing in economic or other matters of practical law would, in fact, be of help to a judge at the time of making a decision on countless calculations and on understanding precise specific terms and technical issues. And, yes, Mr Minister, our guide could be similar institutions that operate in France and the United States and operate in the way that I tell you, not in the way that you are trying to bring in. On the other hand, the search for critical elements in order to complete the file in order to classify and present the case-file or to identify the missing legal or factual issues, all of these, I still consider that they are and remain a work of the judge, whether or not he can assist with this already existing staff, without requiring the creation of a new specific sector. However, it is clear that even if we want to accept that your intentions come from doing, if you want, a reform based on what applies to other legal classes, I would like to say to you that, yes, to see what is happening in the other legal classes that, as I said before, is done in a much more holistic and open manner. However, let us not forget, on the other hand, that in these countries there is a different structure, if you want, of legal designs, of different functions in the administration of justice, the full staffing of services is ensured, the necessary infrastructure is ensured, there is a proper ratio of judges and secretaries in contrast to the Greek reality. A comment, which I think you should see, is also about the potential wording that you put in Article 24b, which I think undermines what you want to do. Why are you there saying that this institution applies if - as you say - the rules of the prosecutor's court are laid down in the rules of procedure. That is what you understand that creates a very dangerous ambiguity. Will you now explain to us - even now - the way in which practical application is carried out? So, is it a substantive provision, is it a reform that will apply to all courts or, ultimately, is it a wishlist, as it makes us wonder 'when'? Do you want to legislate which, if provided for in the rules of the court in question, is well, if not, will simply be something that will remain printed in the code? This reasoning certainly does not refer to necessary reforms. It hardly shows, if you wish, an atmosphere and a fear if you want to move forward in that direction, as you are telling us. The choice of heads has also been made by my fellow Members - and I fully agree with them - that there should be a modulation of a seminar cycle far greater than that of a staffer's formal and academic qualifications. And yet you have not answered the reasonable question of how it is justified to have different speeds in this bill. The diplomas of universities are all as strong and we do not think it is appropriate to further molecule some of the specific, if you like, of them. I would also like to tell you my concern about the interview as planned. I do not want to make any doubts or, if you like, an irregularity, as we have seen many times, imported through the institution of the interview. I would therefore suggest that you, Minister - and here I would like to speak by making a clear proposal - consider very seriously instead of providing for a public oral procedure and an interview, as is the case in the School of Judges or as was previously the case in the examinations of lawyers being conducted. In conclusion, I cannot comment on the permanently negative position - which I have expressed to you in committee - on the issue of the secondment of judicial officers both to the political offices, but I will also tell you of all positions to authorities, public bodies, etc. As far as your position is concerned, I will say the following: I asked you what was the position of the Committee on Legal Affairs, not what the Federation of Judiciary officials said. And since you specifically referred to the debate that the representatives of the parties were having with you in November when, yes, you invited us on the subject of conscientiousness, I would like to ask you, Mr Minister, to be absolutely precise when you speak and especially when you carry what others say other than yourself. Because, in fact, I was amazed at the fact that you have not remembered and mentioned my strongly recorded reaction to and differentiated myself on this subject, when - and you remember it very well - you have asked all of us to reach agreement on the extracts issue. I, too, have given you and I have justified my differences in acquaintance with all the other representatives of the parties. Honestly, therefore, I am impressed by this selective memory, Mr Minister, and the way in which you carry the facts differently from how they happened. I would therefore stress my position, which is clear and which says that there should normally be no secondment of judicial officers either to political offices or to authorities and agencies, not only for quantitative or practical reasons, which, of course, are very important reasons for them, but above all to defend the institutional guarantees which they bear because of their status. The secondment of a judiciary to such posts, of course, also bears one identity, if you like, and a character that is incompatible with their constitutional role. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that sincerely we as a Change Movement are seeking consensus, agreement and we believe that, yes, parliamentary procedure is the most creative part of counter-population. That is why we are coming here not with humours, not with extremism, not with slogans, but with remarks, with a very specific justification of our objections and with very specific counter-proposals, such as those I have tabled to you. Because our aim is precisely to contribute to good legalization and to the right change. And we want the laws that the Greek Parliament is voting on to be good laws for Greek citizens. So we ask that you listen to our voice, listen to our arguments, proceed to the corrections to be made...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u8	Ms. Giannakopoulou, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u9	On this basis and on this condition that you will listen to us and make the changes, we vote 'yes' in principle. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u10	Thank you. The floor will now be taken by Maria Konnaka from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr President. I don't have the time, Minister, to place myself on the rain of the amendments you brought up to last night. However, at least the amendment of the Ministry of Labour is a challenge. Christos Katsotis will be placed in detail next. You are trying, allegedly, to take another step in privatising and awarding pensions, namely the gradual withdrawal of the state from responsibility for social security. Of course, if you really want to proceed with a rapid award, you can hire staff who are missing from these services and do not try to tame lawyers, young and self-employed, that they will be able to work on it when it is assumed that the lion's share will be taken by the big lawyers who will do gold business with the needs of the insured. Minister, the vote of the Code of Justice, which is being discussed today in plenary, attempted to be presented by the Government, of course, of the other parties which consent to it, as required and in some way neutral, on matters relating to the Staff Regulations of Judges. But can such changes be of a neutral nature? Are the changes made in the area of justice akin to neutrality in general? They couldn't have either. At the meetings prior to the committee, the Minister seemed to be having a difficult time or not to understand the criticism of the JRC in a series of changes that seek to shape a fairer legality than the needs of business groups and thus hostile and more difficult to access to the popular layers. What does it mean when it repeats that justice plays a central role in the economic development of the country? Does economic growth not have a specific class mark? Is capitalist development for all? The answer to this question does not require theoretical knowledge of political economy issues. It arises uncertainly from the reality experienced by the workers and the populaces, which on their own rampant wages, in life-tree, in their broken working relationships, in the memorial bans on permanent recruitment that you have been releasing with SYRIZA for so long, allegedly looking for the cause of the tragic subjugation of the courts, on which the multiple recapitalisations of the banks have been built, the rescue and multiplying of the big business profits, as is now being prepared. That's why you're raining the anti-gauges. In these needs, justice cannot be brought into line, and that is certainly not a secret. You recorded it in the Pissaridis report and implemented it literally. What else can it mean when you admit that any reforms in the area of justice are of key importance in absorbing the resources of the Recovery Fund? In fact, it is such that your concern that the Minister justified the unacceptable exclusion of the Union of Judges and Prosecutors from its at least self-evident involvement in the legislative process of the Code of Judiciary and Judiciary, the need to speed up reforms so that the resources of the Recovery Fund are not lost. And then you allegedly innocently wondered "But, well that you find the connection to judicial codes with the need to promote business interests." What else can this cynical admission mean, and in the Pissaridis report, that justice must be transformed from uncertainty to confidence in investors? But nothing less than what you rushed to implement. What was, really, the first change in the direction of acceleration, which keeps the flag, if you want, of reforms, gives the stigma and - excuse me - but makes an eye? The fast-track investment divisions, luxury procedures with specialised judges to avoid finding a rock on the road of investors of green energy, digital colossal and others. It is characteristic that the Pissaridis report sets out the objective of extending the special sections and other issues of major economic interest, such as competition, bankruptcy, corporate governance, and even the question of focusing on the education of judges on these issues in relation to courses at school. This is who sets the priorities. If, really, you are the same for the speed and quality of justice for all, why do you not do the same for people's affairs? Why do you not appoint qualified judges to make family courts, framed by the relevant specialist scientists who have now been legally provided for, but who are left on paper. For workers who have been doing years of work to earn their salaries, to get their pensions, why don't you make luxurious departments with qualified judges and full staff an hour ahead of them? And not only that is not what you do, but when they manage to overcome the snipers that all of you have legislated and acted or mobilised, then in the light of this - they dismantle the courts to take the strike out illegal and abusive. And of course, you have the courage and you speak of justice for everyone when in Athens all the procedures frozen in the courts, within the only three exceptions, were the actions against the strikes. So here's what your contribution is to speeding up justice. But you also make a further contribution to the introduction of private mediation which clearly favours the strong party in every dispute, the most economically strong, the employers, the business and the banks. This nature of justice dictated the changes and the Code of Civil Procedure. Another collaborative work of successive governments of New Democracy and SYRIZA, which, together with the recent changes in the Banking Code, has shaped the ground for massive seizures and auctions at the expense of workers and popular units, as is also confirmed by the most recent arrangements for the effective reopening of auctions by June and the lack of protection of the first home. So the priorities you put to speed up justice are the ones that reveal and what the character you want to have. In this context, the new Code of Judiciary is part of the new Code of Judiciary. You are, therefore, discreet as the purpose of the code, in the first article of the bill, the upgrading and modernisation of the situation of judicial officers. But can there ultimately be even a debate on upgrading, when the thousands of empty organic posts are not handled throughout the country, when there are legal services operating with less than fifty per cent of the predicted employees? When are the explosive building problems and so many shortages of logistics in the courts? For example, can you talk about upgrading the services when the Lagada Peace Court has been housed in a building that has been found inappropriate since 2018 and the Piraeus Court - not in a remote provincial peace tribunal - workers are still working in an asbestos building? What, really, is the decent, rational and creative work to which the code refers? How these go hand in hand with the requirement to ensure health and safety conditions. Where, for example, doctors who have already been provided by the law of 2015 for the courts have not been recruited by any government to date? We must not, of course, talk about measures to protect the courts in the middle of a pandemic which is once again opened without the necessary vaccinations of judges and officials even before. If, in fact, you were interested in upgrading, you would increase the remuneration of the judges who have been devastated by the Memorandum cuts, they would see to it that their overtime work is paid, that the travellers who are still on their feet increase. And while all these issues remain unsolved and are growing, only the evaluation procedures of judicial officers, even dressed in the cloak of the special institutional role of the judiciary as a forerunner of justice, are being upgraded. In this mantle, a special effort is being made to integrate them fully into the urban targets for justice. This, of course, is not unprecedented. This character has been evaluated in a number of public sectors. It does not, of course, have anything to do with the need for scientific, technical and professional support from public officials, so that they themselves and public services can be better, modern, more qualitative, in terms of providing upgraded social services for the people. It's done with other criteria. It is done on the basis of criteria such as such that competition is cultivated and the evaluation is finally transformed into a tool for the prevention and intensification of work, particularly when it is carried out in conditions of tragic shortages and undermining. Really, in services with 40% and 50% vacancies, how will you measure the qualitative and quantitative performance of employees? When an official works for two or three or keeps his own service, as is the case at the Lemnos Peace Court, what else will it mean by becoming a ‘ladder’, so that he can actually cope with the needs? The question, therefore, is not generally the assessment of judicial officers, as is the case in general, but also with what criteria, with what content and for what purpose. Similarly, the question is not, in general, the training of workers in order to monitor the new data, but the problem is that it takes the character of long-term post-training, ultimately strengthening competition between workers and introducing unauthorised differences that will also be linked to their wage position on a path. In fact, with these seminars so far, we have not seen the relative change you promised, Minister. Degrees, postgraduate and doctoral qualifications of workers are still being shared. Instead of solving the reasons for the delays, the existence of many times of downgrading of the services, you are increasing the obstacles to finally be judged by an official excellent to offer a project from which you say there was a significant benefit in the service. From your point of view, of course, such a choice is absolutely justified, because it is necessary to discipline judicial officers on those objectives which the civil state places. From this point of view, therefore, we disagree with the tightening up of the disciplinary framework, especially when recent experience of how disciplinary boards have been used repeatedly to terrorise and fade them - otherwise - heroic doctors, when dramatic deficiencies in the public health system have been indicated by their mobilisations, gives rise to a wider concern about how such a strict framework can be used. We therefore have no right to consider such rules as dangerous in the code, such as Article 94, which stipulates that judicial officers cannot manifest or disseminate their political and philosophical convictions in the performance of their duties or by using their status? So, the judges have no right to criticise anti-French politics? Are they not entitled to discuss the demands of a strike, which are obviously political in nature? In fact, this regulation is hypocritically part of the article on the right to freedom of expression. Moreover, of course, the creation of the two new branches of judiciary which, in practice, forms a separate, intermediate one, could mean an elite among the officials with special status and salary development, and indeed with tasks that are not clearly defined, as is rightly the case in these articles, but through the rules of the courts in question. In these areas, in fact, a number of reactive arrangements are introduced, such as the possibility for the judicial or public prosecutor to impose their work at home or at a different time from that provided for, arrangements which come in a more general direction that exists to extend the working hours, such as restrictions on their participation in political life, but also provisions for the evaluation of staff on the basis of their morality. We are at least concerned about how such provisions can be exploited. And here, of course, are the priorities you set out in the creation of these two sectors which are far from the real needs of both workers in the field of justice and more generally. Of course, if the judicial associations themselves have at least judged it unnecessary, since their communication issues with the press and the various bodies themselves are handled in their own judgments, how much I can rather imagine that building the confidence of the citizens in justice will be built by posters and "like" of court judgments in social media. However, the nature of the judicial documenting and assistance in judicial work fairly brings greater reflection, especially from the point of view of alignment of judgments attempted by the consolidation of the case-law of the courts and of the Court of Justice, as a whole with Union law. And the crucial thing is not, as is being attempted to show, whether the judges are able to impose this alignment on the judges' judgement, but the overall effort being made in various ways on the part of the civil state, such as the guidelines already given by the Court of Justice for the rejection of debts in the cases of overdue households, the tool of the pilot trial that plays a particularly important role in the name of acceleration. This option is directly linked to the functioning of justice as a master of business groups. It serves deeper targets for suffocating case law control in their benefit, not to mention any progressive approach to the interests of the people. The changes that come from the Code of Judiciary cannot be considered as coming into empty air. They are integrated into the axes that have been drawn up and implemented, a step by the Pissaridis report itself, which, inter alia, speaks of closure and merger of courts in the province, of the closer control of judges through evaluation procedures, the extension of the hours of judges, changes which naturally do not aim to better and faster service citizens, the fulfilment of the needs of workers in justice, but the conversion of the judiciary into a source of confidence for new investments. We are not going to agree on that, of course, and we are therefore voting against the Code of Judiciary.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u12	Now the speaker from the Greek Solution, Mr Constantine Hetas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u13	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, when we discuss, you know, a bill from the Ministry of Justice we have very high expectations of all of us, not because you are or are not very competent or productive, simply because we need to help the poorer justice. We hope that we will be able to change things in the area of justice for the best, namely that we will be able to solve problems, pathogens, which you also know for decades have been afflicting the citizens, the judges, the officials, the lawyers, the whole system in general. But when we talk about justice, we are talking about proper administration of justice, and that is where we should focus. We're talking about justice that has a primary objective. What is the goal of justice? The protection of citizens, the protection of their rights. That's what's important. We are talking about the justice to which the citizen, the wrongdoer, the impossible one, is subjected to his right to illegality, to injustices, to interests and so on. That is why justice, Mr Chiara, must be independent and unaffected by various sirens, by various methods and by interests. The truth, however, is that the situation in our courts - I do not have to say it, you know it very well - is anything but idyllic or satisfying. Large deficiencies in judges, staff, coupled with the lack of infrastructure and equipment, resulting in hundreds of cases being accumulated in the courts, particularly first-line courts, court proceedings and first-class courts. Question: Is justice being given when, for example, a lawsuit is being tried and tried years later? Question 2: Is justice granted when a decision on interim measures takes more than a year to come out? And especially now with the restrictions, because of pandemic and all that, things have become much worse. Justice, however, is not a catering shop, so we can shut it down as we closed it down. It's neither "take away" nor "click away", you can't put a padlock. So we have seen that the measures you have taken did not succeed in either focusing, of course, both on the whole external and on the retail trade, obviously not even in justice, which could work, with measures, safely, distances and so on. Don't hang up at least. The padlocks have become permanent. A lot of the padlocks that got in are permanent. Some of our fellow citizens will never open up their shop again. There have been too many padlocks with people on the market, if you like, in despair. That is why justice and that is why the courts do not mean that they can't put down rolls, because it is the judicial function that protects it, it is the one that ensures the separation of powers, our democracy and citizens' rights in a favoured state. No one really refuses that the way justice is to be awarded must be modernised, that the courts must be strengthened in both staff and infrastructure, but also modernised. You have said many times, Mr Chiara, that with the bills you bring, in which we have collaborated almost everything, you put small stones - that's what you always say, a small stone - you take small steps to do the right thing. Now, with this bill you are amending the law on judicial officers. Introduce, among other things, new categories of officials to strengthen the work of justice. We, as a Party, as a Greek Solution, do not question your good intentions. But I'm afraid, and we're afraid you've started with the wrong starting point once again. And make something clear. It is necessary to help the judges both in their work and in their work. They actually raise a very large load on their backs, and the state must take action and be a good one to them. On their part, however, the judicial officers too, with all the shortcomings and difficulties they face, are trying to help with the work of the judges. That is why state measures should not be one-sided or one-sided, as they are here. They must focus, that is, they must also have a positive impact on all those who are carrying out work either directly or indirectly on the administration of justice and most of all adapting to the Greek reality. Why am I saying that now? Why are you legislating on a new category of judicial officers, a new - let us say so, for people to understand - an interim category of officials between judges and judges. These will be the new employees you are legislating on today. Actually, we're talking about assistant judges, as the coach has his assistant. This is an assistant judge. Let me say it like this: assistant judge. They will assist the judges, help them first, rather the highest courts. You say that this system has a great success abroad - you said - that these assistants abroad exist, operate successfully in many countries and you said examples, such as America, Australia, etc. Minister, I believe you, we really believe you when you tell us that this system operates abroad. No doubt we have. It's working. But is this where we are, or is it missing or something very important to you? Question: Are the courts of these states, to which you referred, faced the problems of the Greek courts? Second question: do these countries have great deficiencies in the courts' secretaries of those who go to the seat, of those who are secretaries and prosecutors? Third question: Do they have large gaps in organic positions of both judges and officials? Fourth question: Do they have the problems we encounter in many courts in buildings and infrastructure abroad, such as here in Greece? Do I need to tell you, Minister, the situation of many buildings in Hope or in many regional courts and courts of peace, which do not have appropriate judicial offices or that many secretaries in the province are being appointed and are still working with an official and everyone is suffering with this situation? Isn't that the ones that lead? I mean, shouldn't we be able to solve this a little bit and get to it? It's a little bit too, but make areas important. This must not be tackled by the state as a priority, so that we can get here and then see what further we can do and what else we need to do? I think that you, too, do not disagree with what I mentioned and I will listen carefully to you. But that is exactly what the warning is, and it seems to be what the priorities of each government are, especially now that we are talking about your own government. You, the Government of New Democracy, are talking about abbreviation of justice. It is something you said, Mr Chiara, at the last meeting of the committee responsible. That's what you said. However, as a Greek Solution, we are talking about and we are seeking the right, quick administration of justice and not abbreviation. A swift award and right of justice are being sought. But that doesn't mean you have to make fast tracks. It can't be done. To solve the problem, fast track you are. That's what you're going to do. It does not mean dealing with a case, but effective judicial protection for the citizen in a reasonable and short time. I can't fuck everything. You're interested in getting the numbers, the statistics. What can I say? That's how many cases I had, so I took them, so I got it. It is, to satisfy the interests of creditors, creditors and banks. We are interested in the citizen, we are interested in the man who is behind the numbers you see. That's exactly what you do with the high-priced households, with the thousands of accumulated cases in the pacifist courts. By circumventing procedures, by blocking procedures and in any case by adding even more burdens to the citizens. After having legislated for their bankruptcy, since, of course, you agreed to take out their homes in the hammer, you make them virtually tenants in their homes. These must not be forgotten. They must be said, they must be pointed out. We are talking about the sacrifices, about the labors of the Greek citizens. However, the truth is that you always know, against the Greeks - not personally, your party yes and all those who have governed - you have been very strict, impatient, I would say, very often and the state exhausts its rigour to our fellow citizens. Of course, here, the same does not apply to other categories, such as, for example, - I will say it - for illegal immigrants, which, as you say, you want to put them in our country. Here you show another face. You have favourable arrangements, privileges, homes, free legal support, and that is not the case for the Greeks. And the Greek is struggling for survival with access to justice, and many times this access to justice is accurate, very accurate, but also greedy. Unfortunately, that's the way things are. These are the choices and priorities of your Government. And in this context, with all the current situation, is the establishment of a new branch for judicial officers, according to your bill? Okay, it's not bad, but it's gonna be some kind of press office. Is this urgent now? So, did our communication turn us into a garner? I mean, it seems to me that you're making the window, that you have a shop, if I'm allowed to express yourself, that you're making the window, but inside the store there are very basic things missing and you're just trying to fix the window ahead. I am afraid that with your bill you are legislating two-speed judiciaries, where, although the older ones will feel wronged and continue to work in the same difficult conditions, the younger ones will feel favored. I must also highlight the concerns that exist as to whether these officials on the basis of the bill will have an indirect judicial role. We must be very careful about such arrangements. And because we are talking about public officials, about civil servants, about democracy, and we should at least talk about excellence. How much, though, Minister, is excellence rewarded? How much do the best ones get? I'll get an example for people to hear about their choice of heads. I mean, I want some superintendents. How do I choose them? The moleculosis of a seminar with a hundred molecules and the university's degree is limited to thirty and if it is legal with forty-five and a 30-graduate degree. But if you attend a seminar, you'll get a hundred molecules. Well, that can't be. So, you cleaned up with two seminars? That's it? Is that how the perfect ones will go in front? You come in front of the graduate with postgraduate and foreign languages, and you take someone else. And I would remind you at this point, Minister, that this lack of dignity, because nothing is dispersed, is a sequence of events, as I have shown you with research that I have presented here in your bills, is the first reason to leave our thousands of young people abroad. How do we expect these children to return to our homeland? The rapid administration of justice is undoubtedly essential. We will all agree with you in this Chamber that it is an essential component of a fair trial. So it must be a rule of law. It seeks justice, seeks justice, protection and, of course, to be satisfied. And the state has an obligation to operate. It is the state's duty to operate, legislate with specific strategy and programming. So set the right priorities and implement what Greek justice and Greek citizens really need. And since it's a bill of law from the Ministry of Justice, finally proceed, Mr. Chiara, to strict sentences. Impairment of penalties! We have experienced tragic events in recent months, and I am referring above all to pedophiles. We've said it too many times. Go ahead and tighten sentences. When we say life, we really mean life. If we don't say it here today, in a bill from the Ministry of Justice, when are we going to say it? Do the thing! Now, on the other hand, I wonder if you legislate. Six amendments bring in the Ministry of Agriculture, Justice, Labour and Labour! - Defense, interior and education. Six! Are there going to be more? We should know. Well, they come, they don't come, it doesn't matter. I will make a little reference to Mr Hatzidakis' amendment. He is the superman of the government, the man of special missions, who celebrated the pensions on his cake, celebrated OSE, PPC. Whatever the Superman sold out was celebrated! Let me ask you something, Mr. Chiara. Does the state keep up or doesn't it? He has, so you've told us. In big, you've shown it, Skopje, all of this is the state. You've said it many times. Isn't the party state all the time? Why am I asking? The Minister of Interior leaves, Theodorikos, Vorides comes and changes everything, cast vote, etc. It was Brutsis, the "ATLAS" system, which we talk to "ATLANTA". You were trying to convince us two weeks ago to vote for him. The Prime Minister opened it, “What good the “ATLAS” is”, which may be because I see that many pensions have passed, it showed the thing to slap - that I think a hundred and fifty thousand pensions have come out, in any case, what you did - and Hatzidakis, the superman, and he's changing everything now! So your party state doesn't keep up? Do you not understand that you should have a party's policy as a basis? That's what you're going through. It's not possible when every minister changes everything. Why is Hatzidakis going to leave? Are they going to change again? Listen now! This is the first time, Minister - I will tell Mr Hatzidakis when he comes, I will tell him many years of man, I hope he has brought us some cakes - that retired people will pay from their pockets to get their pensions back! The first is that. Secondly, about 80 million euros will be charged to the state budget, the Greek state, me and you, the citizens outside, the money that Mr Hatzidakis is voting for and decides on! 80 million doesn't give it out of his pocket. They will come out of the state, from the Greek citizens, 80 million euros! Why? Three hundred thousand pensions with 200-300 euros each pension he wants to give everyone. Why is he doing? He'll pay, says, the state's tax and lawyers. Where will the state get the money? Who's gonna pay for that money? First time! While the system seemed to work, as it worked. Wasn't it working? Do something else. But while you have so many civil servants, do you get private people to pay them - not from your pocket - from the pocket of the Greek people? And what are we gonna do now? Hatzidakis will be gone in a year, two years. We hope sooner, let's do what he wants. He's going to leave! The one who'll take over after where will he find these files, Mr. Chiara? There'll be such a dispersal of cases out there that mother loses her mother and child mother! Where are you going to find each case, every file?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u14	Let's get it done slowly.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u15	I shall conclude, Mr President. Thank you very much. We don't have another speaker today, anyway. I'm done. One more minute. Thank you. Let me tell you something else. He's a poor retired man who's been waiting three years for his pension. He's not retired. For example, Hetas is coming out - for me to retire now - and because I have money, I go and I press, in a month's time! Where poor and his fate! That's what's gonna happen. He will also pay out of his pocket the retired person and tell him the lawyer or the tax agent "let me take off your pension, but you will also give me two pensions, two monthly". Don't you think that's what this is all about? So where do we live? In the land of angels? Aren't these going to happen? They'll be done. In any case, you decide - and I close, Mr President - as a party as a government. You will now tell me "What you tell me, Heta, I am justice, tell Hatzidakis". I'll see you there, but you're a member of the government, you know. And the government shows he doesn't have a plan. Every minister probably has personal pursuits to build his own portfolio. You're not going well, you know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u16	Now here's how we go. After Mrs Angeliki Adamopoulou has spoken - she will speak via Webex - on behalf of Mera25, we will go to the circle of the six speakers, who are five because a party has not given a speaker. Then he will speak for nine minutes, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure, the Deputy Minister of State, Mr Kotsiras. The Minister informed me that he would speak after hearing all the speakers. Now, because I understand that both the rapporteurs and speakers and the parliamentary representatives because of the amendments will want to make a separate position - perhaps those who want - on the amendments, I am making a proposal - unanimously accepting it - that after all my fellow Members, rapporteurs and speakers, and Parliamentary representatives, also have five minutes of dentistry, if they want to make use, or of the amendments. What they want to say, but I suppose they will want to talk about the amendments, which the ministers will slowly come too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u17	But one of the two: either the rapporteur or the parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u18	No, no. They are, Mr. Chiara, both right of seconds. It's just, when it's a meeting, we don't usually have a second. In any case, do not take six amendments on you. Okay. The ministers will be here to answer. Do you agree, ladies and gentlemen, with this proposal?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u19	We agree, then, unanimously. That's for anyone who wants to take the floor. Because someone might not want to.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u20	The reason is now, through Webex, Mrs Adamopoulou from Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u21	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened with real interest to all the positions in committee. I too must say that the debate was very interesting. However, I cannot hide my disappointment at some of the regularities on the part of the top representatives of the opposition in this bill, namely both the Ministry and the special speaker. This frequent mood to shade doesn't seem to offer constructively. And I'm saying that, because here there's a pattern, bring in some bill -- well and wrong -- and attack imaginary enemies. Who told you that we do not recognise that there are also positive initiatives? For example, some of the regulations relating to service matters satisfy consistent requests. However, from there on, to support - for example - the possibility of promoting secondary-education staff in post managerial posts is zero? Asking you to allow it only exceptionally, when it does not serve as an employee of technology or university education, such as the Public Code, is zero? Is it irresponsible to complain about the worst treatment of parental leave or mobility by court officials compared with other civil servants? Because these issues are matters of service too. I will agree with what the Minister said 'a little stone, a stone', but that does not mean that we are not allowed to disagree on what a bit of stone: either we will either add or remove bits or we will put them better. So the fact that there are positive in the bill does not mean that there are no errors and shortcomings. We say this, we argue, we have proposed concrete changes and, ultimately, this is causing discomfort and discomfort. I come to the point that, as it turns out, it is what the Ministry has raised the most within the committee - unjustly, in my opinion - the specific sectors - especially the first - of documentation and assistance for judicial work. So I would like to explain where we agree and where we disagree, because we believe that misinterpretations have been made and I want to believe without treacherousness. Are there any such institutions abroad? Sure. Are there everywhere in Europe and in America? Of course not. To close this - because it was heard by ministerial lips - and to move on to the most important issues and questions. Is the institution uniform in all the States and the courts applicable? No, it's not. Otherwise, it operates in France, otherwise in Germany, in the Court of Justice of the European Union, otherwise in the Court of Justice in Strasbourg, with the same general philosophy as the judge's assistance, but not in the same way. Because other needs have every rightfulness, other things allow, and others forbid, and of course other problems have every justice and every court. The institution in America and Britain, for example, works completely differently. That's where the assistant isn't a permanent employee. The court and in America, in particular, the public prosecutor themselves, freely proclaim the post with office and choose a council among those who applied for. In France, however, the sector is special and independent, it has an absolute expertise on this matter and it is outside the closest body of judges. The Court of Justice of the European Union and the Court of Human Rights are much younger than Greek justice. They were built in the first place with these institutions in their operational core, and these institutions are operating in the first place. So when we compare, we have to compare similar situations. We must compare specific things, we cannot compare apples with pears. We cannot even compare here - I have repeated this to the committee - we have no comparison. I have asked three or four times in committee and I have not received an answer from anyone. So I hope that now, at the expense of the House too, you will answer the very simple thing: what exactly will these officials do? Because in all foreign and international courts this is clearly identified. And since you call for best practices, please again tell us what is the practice that exists abroad for every post in detail, to speak in detail. Make it clear what these people will do when they go to work. Of course, answer us if these courts are faced with the problems and shortcomings in organic and logistical infrastructures that are afflicted by Greek courts. Of what you are writing in Article 24, it is clear that these officials will be treated in case of caselaw, indexes and case-law, legislation, literature and literacy. We recognize this, we understand that, regardless of whether we consider that modern media already provide these tools to judges. There's a lot of tools, legal intelligence banks, and there's no need for any employees for this job. So to date, when we are discussing the bill in plenary, you have not explained to us - and I would ask you once again to explain to us - what it will say 'to help the judges and prosecutors directly in their work' and what it means in practical terms, but in practical terms! - that they will be employed in a preliminary processing of cases. And when I say 'practical', I mean in procedural terms, in procedural terms. I also looked into Mr. Gravaris's note, I didn't see anything specific. He is, of course, talking about documentation, which refers to a transfer of quasi-judicial work. I have also seen an assessment of the benefit of the institution abroad, which is scientifically respected, but it is a repetition of the general provision and not more. In the end, you are trying to convince us that you are bringing innovation and a beneficial institution, but you do not want to describe it in concrete detail. And to say it in terms of purchase, if in personal life someone wanted to sell you a service, a product that would advertise you as particularly innovative, innovative and important, but avoided answering to basic things and uses, would you buy it? So we are not to blame when you do not know or want to explain ambiguities to the very essentials. We are very clear: only the judge can produce quasi-judgmental work, only the judge can perform an admissibility check, interpret a rule of law, bring the facts into line with the rule of law in the context of the administration of justice, i.e. assess whether there is a legal case. Estimates and documentation cannot be done by anyone else. Of course, as I said before, the truth is that the court itself, those who say they will benefit, does not seem to mean the matter. The administrative plenary of the Ice Bay had a negative opinion in 2019 when he dealt with the code and proposal for the creation of assistant judges. Indeed, since you have told us that you are actually bringing the same text to the end at that time, the Areos Ice unanimously requested the abolition of the special sections of university education, documentation and assistance for judicial work and judicial communication and international relations laid down in the third chapter. It was in Articles 23 to 82. Nor do I need to recall once again the completely negative view of the Union of Judges and Prosecutors, which is far too many of them and obviously has the most needs. Eventually, you have not obtained the necessary consents to something that is so serious. Now let's go to the choice. In an exception to all other colleagues in the courts, officials from these two categories shall be chosen without involvement or at least supervision of the AACC. For the first time the committee nominated by the plenary is chosen, for the second committee appointed by the Minister himself by 6/8. So, should we not mention that? I would even remind you that you have recently passed a law that amended the AACC and its procedures. In fact, then, some New Democracy officials from the Stepping of the House told us that as an exception you are aiming to fight the exceptions and to ensure the much more frequent effective involvement of the AACC in all recruitment procedures in the public sector. So now you themselves, and while the ink has not yet dried up in this law by Mr Vorides, break this central commitment from the Step of the House to articles 29 and 70. So we say "ASEP everywhere" and if it needs assistance because of a special cognitive subject and has the right and has the way to receive it from both the service and from the judges and from the legal schools and from the legal corps. We therefore have a clear and comprehensible position. You, on the other hand, disguise yourself by bringing new exceptions that you will soon disappear, i.e. permanent civil servants without an APA. As far as moleculosis is concerned, I will not say anything at the moment. We're waiting for legislative improvements. Of course, I find it unacceptable that we have not yet been announced and, in fact, only the rapporteur of the New Democracy should know them. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Lappas told the committee yesterday something very appropriate, he said - if I am not mistaken - 'Here is no cover for the house and the Ministry is dealing with furniture', and it is precisely to establish to a certain extent. In the countries of the Council of Europe, including Azerbaijan, Albania, Moldova, Georgia, Armenia and all former Yugoslav Republics, on average in these countries account for 3.1 officials per judiciary. In Greece we have six thousand employees for four thousand three hundred judges. In short, therefore, the two judges account for fewer than three officials. We have courts where, as I said, the officials are half the judges. The proper administration of justice, as the Union of Judges and Prosecutors has often said, is conducted on those material terms that ensure adequate staffing of the secretariat, an appropriate logistics infrastructure that meets the current needs. So, first and foremost, a necessary step in this direction is the immediate recruitment of secretaries covering the existing empty organic positions and not, of course, officials - there is no need for officials - who will replace the judicial and judicial crisis. The Minister in the committee has given us a credit card that the successful ones are not going to be appointed, and that is why we have empty organic positions. The question is: What are you now legislating on? Will people be glad to serve the courts? Did you change your motives? You have neither increased remuneration nor introduced anything beneficial that can give vision to a person - a young man - to work for justice in a small way. So how do you expect the basic problem of sub-station to be solved? So the basics from the courts, Mr Minister, are the missing ones. Neither communication luxuries are missing with inadequate description and limited consensus, nor are the shadows of anxieties from bizarre modulations and promotions. And I will end with the amendment that you brought in very late last night in relation to the President of the Anti-Counterfeiting Authority of Criminal Income. So you say in the order that while the current Supreme Prosecutor is chosen together with his deputy by a decision of the Supreme Judicial Council, but on a relevant question from the Minister of Justice, and appointed by a joint decision of the Finance and Justice Ministers, here you are bringing the honorary senior prosecutor, who is chosen together with his deputy on the basis of a joint decision of the Minister of Finance and Justice, on a proposal from the Permanent Committee of Institutions and Transparency of the Parliament. You are making a distinction: You are completely overriding the choice of honor by an independent body, such as the Supreme Judicial Council and, of course, there is no binding opinion from the Committee on Institutions and Transparency. I'm sorry, but this is ashes in the eyes. We think there's a manoeuvre. It's a photographic device. There is already a choice and you just want to legalise this ministerial choice to circumvent the Supreme Judicial Council. Please withdraw this provision at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Adamopoulou. At this point this cycle was completed and we proceed to the circle of six speakers with a natural presence. Mrs. Papadimitriou, who is the first, is Mrs. Xinoyannakopoulou, who is second, Mr. Mulkiotis, Mr. Katsotis and Mr. Boubas. Here, Mrs. Papadimitriou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to welcome from this step the amendment tabled by the Ministry of Labour and Social Security, which at last gives a solution to the problem of thousands of pensioners. This demonstrates that the government is disgraceful about the problems of society and is indeed dealing with the issue of the holisticity, as many issues are dealt with that may arise in the processing and resolution of these issues. And since I come from Pieria, a particularly rural area, I would also like to welcome the amendment tabled by the Minister for Rural Development on the issue of the withdrawal of land workers from third countries. And in this case the reflexes of the ministries and government were immediately and it is certain that the harvests will not stay in the fields, they will not stay on the trees and that this matter will also be dealt with immediately. Also, because a number of building infrastructures, shortcomings and others have been heard, I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that seven new judges were approved a month ago, the rebuilding of five other judges in central Macedonia, central Greece and Crete, on a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. Tsiara. Now you'll tell me 'we're done with this?' No, of course, because the enemy of good is always the best, and that's why we're fighting. And now I come to the bill. First of all, it is very positive that it has been accepted by many of Parliament's wings. This is something that one would expect, since common sense dictates it, because it is a draft law on the discussion and preparation of the Code of Judicial Staff and cannot be subject to political controversy. After all, that is precisely why the Ministry of Justice has adopted, on the one hand, the finding of the prefecture committee which has taken the lead in the previous government and, on the other hand, is introducing it in the ordinary legislative procedure rather than in the code process. Because that is the case, let me say 'basan' - I say it in introductory words - of ordinary parliamentary processing, such as the submission and debate to the committee responsible, the debate on the principle and on the articles, the second reading, the hearing of the bodies, the proposals made by the Members, the hearing of the bodies and the proposals of the bodies, the evaluation report and the report of the Scientific Office of Parliament. So it will be an essential tool, on the one hand, to upgrade the work of judicial officers and, on the other, to speed up the administration of justice. The government, committed to its reform work in the field of justice, now, twenty-one years later, replaces the current Code of Judiciary officials by introducing a new modern code that meets the requirements of the time, but also the special institutional role that judiciary officials have as a helper of justice. The new Code, in line with best international practices, comes to modernise the organisation of the administrative departments of the courts and to overall upgrade the work and development of judicial officers. I will focus on three main axes which, in my view, are all three major reforms. The first relates to the system of evaluation of judicial officers, a system which, unfortunately, had resulted in a formal and pretext, if you wish, in which all of them are assessed with a "excellent", without any substantial discrimination and reward for the actual abilities. This is now changing, as modern evaluation criteria are introduced, and for the first time the assessment of the heads of government are also being established. The second basic reform concerns the selection of moleculosis-based supervisors, resulting from a combination of formal qualifications, work experience and skills. The large section, however, is the introduction of the two new branches of judicial officers, the Judiciary Documentation and Assistance Branch, which will support judicial officers in the fields of legal, legal and bibliographical documentation and the Judiciary and International Relations Division. In particular, the first branch will provide significant assistance to the work of judges in matters of programming, listing and generally practical handling of cases, thus contributing significantly to the great risk, that of speeding up the administration of justice. And it is worth wondering that reservations and allegations have been made that are lacking in credibility. For example, it was expressed by many colleagues that the recruitment of qualified scientific staff from various specialists, such as psychologists, social workers, economists, political engineers and other scientists could be carried out. Ladies and gentlemen, the law must always be clear and clear and specific. We cannot go into legislation today with an indicative list of professional scientists who will assist the judges. It is impossible, but it is also not legally appropriate to establish in advance such a list, which of course can also be inexhaustible. Moreover, where specific knowledge is required that evacuate the framework of knowledge of the Judges, there is, according to the procedure, in all proceedings there is this, the evidence of the expertise which the Judge may order on his own initiative or even ask the party to do so. It was also claimed that the officials would replace some of the judges in their judicial work. But will the clerk be tried? The formation of the judiciary and the adoption of a judgment will only belong to the judge, as is laid down in the Constitution. Does anyone really think the judge will not check and judge the material that the staff member in the service will have prepared for him? In closing the chapter, we have to say that this is an institutionally tested and successful in the field of justice in many states. To sum up, this draft law, the Code of Judiciary is, first of all, introduced by the ordinary and thorough parliamentary procedure. Secondly, it is based on the finding of the nomadic committee which has a starting point from the previous government. Thirdly, it introduces the institution of assistance, an institution tested in international legal systems. Fourthly, it has been accepted by the majority of the competent bodies in the committees and, fifthly and more importantly, it is in complete agreement with our Charter, the Constitution and the demands of the times. Let us hope that it will also be a bill that will benefit from the acceptance of all parties, as the effort to speed up the administration of justice by the leadership of the Ministry of Justice is a struggle that must be won, because it affects the lives of thousands of our fellow citizens, but also because it has a direct impact on the development, investment and economy of our country. Because that is the only way that the highest individual right to a fair trial enshrined in Article 20 of the Constitution and Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights applies, and why we can talk about the rule of law at that time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u24	The floor will now be taken by my colleague from SYRIZA, Ms. Marilissa Xinoyanakopoulou. I would ask all colleagues to keep a distance. Me and Mr. Chiaras are doctors, we can't see that. Mrs. Xinoyannakopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking to place myself on behalf of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group - a Progressive Alliance for the unacceptable amendment tabled by the Minister of Labour, Mr Hatzidakis, involving private lawyers and accountants in the awarding of pensions and the functioning of the ECA. The reality, ladies and gentlemen, is that the social problem and, at the same time, the budget of outstanding pensions, which have more than tripled since the 2019 elections and now more than four hundred thousand, has the signature of the Mitsotakis Government. For eighteen months after the election, there was refusal to admit that there was a problem, and after the remodeling, Mr. Hatzidakis, as if he did not receive from a minister of the same party and the same government, all he does is to deceive the EVA, to talk about August manoeuvre, to talk about the functioning of the EVC, to underestimate and devaluate civil servants. It is obviously a double objective: on the one hand, in the noble tactics of the Mitsotakis Government, we have shifted responsibility. It is never this government's fault, it does not take responsibility, but it passes on to some others, and in this case, to civil servants, as if we had no political leadership. At the same time, however, the neoliberal account of the bad and problematic bureaucratic public and the privatisation of services is also served. We are standing against this amendment, which of course we shall vote against for a number of reasons. First of all, it's unconstitutional. It is contrary to Article 22(5) of the Constitution, which expressly states that social security, the public insurance system is the sole concern of the State. Let us be clear. What was Mr. Hatzidakis supposed to do? It would have to make the necessary recruitments to the FBI, because there are no executives, decreased by 48% in the decade of the crisis, and at the same time speed up the digital upgrade of the insurance history that is the great reason for the delays. Second reason. We oppose this amendment because it is a coup d'état, which opens the way to privatising public services as a whole in public administration. Look, here we are not talking about certain contracts with companies that buy software services or some other infrastructure or logistics, here we are talking about privatising services that are at the heart of the public service, for which it goes without saying that the citizen should be served, as the taxpayer and the insured person in this case pays the costs of the ECA. The third reason is that, of course, with this regulation, which has permanent characteristics - that is, it is not a temporary arrangement to deal with the outstanding pensions, the thousands of outstanding pensions - it does no limit, so in fact it does a permanent privatization of the ECA services, which will lead to further depreciation of the ECA, as the ECA will actually be decorative, it will simply be there to register and ratify decisions. That is the reality, and so the substance of the problem will never be dealt with, it will also be incomplete. The fourth reason is that it obliges the members themselves, the pensioners' candidates, to pay out of their pockets in order to make the public's self-evident obligation, that is to say, to retire. And how does this seem from the amendment, since it does not bring about a real regulation that excludes it? Because he says that the insurers assign professional lawyers and accountants. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] Minister, you weren't here, of course, to listen, but it's okay, you're a Minister of Justice, and you know you're awarded it means it's a contract that the insured pays. In fact, here we have the first and the most unheard of and unacceptable, which is socially and classically unacceptable, the insured person who has to pay for the first time, even if his application is later from another insured person whose application precedes. And that's how we get to the next reason we're against. Here we are also in breach of the basic principle of good administration, namely that there is a protocol that thus operates all the states of law throughout the world and the Staff Code is violated, which even considers it to be a disciplinary offence, if the official and the public as a whole as a service neglects an earlier application and puts forward and serves a younger one. At the same time, this is another reason for criticising and we are opposed. He comes and puts a blackmail on the officials themselves, on the civil servants, so that they do not have proper control of even those files that will be brought to them by individuals. It puts them on an exclusive basis for thirty days, i.e. it obliges them to sign. However, because Mr Hatzidakis is wicked and dicolorously aware that the civil servants will refuse to sign, precisely so that they do not complicate in a series of disciplinary and criminal offences, he says that if the 30 days do not sign, what is automatically true is what is being filed by individuals. There is no precedent for this, and of course we see that there will be no control before or after that, because of course the 5% sample check is not sufficient. Now we're going to the raw violation of public interest. The SYRIZA government in 2018, just to speed up pensions, made a contract with private companies in order to make a digital upgrade of the insurance history. It cost the government budget and the taxpayer 6 million. Question One: What has the New Democracy Government done since 2019 in order to speed up and complete? Question 2, will the state budget and the insured and the taxpayer pay three times the same work? In other words, we pay as insured and taxpayers for the operation of EKKA, the taxpayer pays the company 6 million, and for the same project EKKA will pay private individuals again, as well as individuals themselves. It is clear that here we have a violation of any concept of constitutional, legal and administrative law, as well as of the public interest. And I will make a provision: in the end, this provision, in addition to all these scandalous arrangements it brings, will also be incomplete. It will not work, there will be ignorance, the certification and training systems will not work. You are, in fact, in breach of the public interest and the Constitution, but you will also be delaying the resolution of this crucial problem of outstanding pensions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u26	And we thank you, Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou, and the consistency in time. I call on the MP of the Movement of Change, Mr. George Mulkiotis, to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, every day the government is telling us that it is lacking in seriousness, while the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is becoming a great champion of peculiar legislation by means of amendments. Having been ahead of a communication storm in the past few days in relation to the amendment that is supposed to give a great deal of solution to the problem of outstanding pensions, the text was finally tabled last night in Parliament at the last moment literally. The Minister can tell us why the text of the amendment has been given to the media for so many days, while the House has been tabled a few hours ago? Why is the Minister resorting to such practices? I think the answer is simple. Because this is how Parliament is aware of the role and functions extortionally in the opposition parties. It is impossible to put it seriously, correctly and precisely in the light of the seriousness of such legislation, without even having given the minimum opportunity for the social actors to put themselves on the subject. And I will submit for this reason to the Proceedings and letters of the Single Network of Pensioners, the PDOCPP, the Pan-Hellenic Association of Workers' IKA and the EBRD. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Mulkiotis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] So where is the consultation? Nowhere. But is this the good legality, ladies and gentlemen? The government's amendment that it is yet another communication bubble without any implementation timetable, not only does it want to have any substantial effect, no process of speeding up the issue of outstanding pensions, but introduces for the first time the history of social security for individuals, into the pension issue project. With the amendment, but also with the imminent privatisation of subsidiary insurance, it attempts to implement the strategic objective, to depreciate public social security and to grant it all or part of the market. Of course, he opens Halos's hold on endless judicial disputes and claims. And to speak clearly. The responsibilities are enormous to increase the outstandings in the governance of the New Democracy and they are entirely borne by the Mitsotakis Government. Reduction of employees in the ECA, split by seven hundred contractors with proven experience in the pension offer, no preparation in the adoption of the single benefit regulation, bubbles on digital pensions. Really, ladies and gentlemen, where is the digital "ATLAS" that, with a button, would come from? And the main question is this mechanism will be permanent or temporary? This provision does not say anything. Is it just to solve the problem of outstanding pensions? We have also asked on several occasions why the government has not exploited - and has not exploited to date - the seven hundred pensioners, young scientists, who had proven themselves to be offering pensions and who have all recognized it? Why would it prefer the training and certification of professionals in private individuals, lawyers and accountants, whom we fully respect as personals, without knowing from whom or how long the training will take, but also from whom will the certification take place? "All will be decided by the Minister himself in second year," they said in the last few days. What exactly does the government do? He's doing what he knows very well. Firstly, it triggers social automation, turning the Greek society and the candidate pensioners against the workers of the ECA, to whom the full responsibility of the thirty-five thousand remaining pension applications lies. Secondly, it transforms the workers of the NSAs into employees of certified private individuals, since both the preparation of the insurance file and the responsibility for the decision to retire is burdening the employee and not the individual. And thirdly, it forces retired people to put their hand in their pockets, because no private person will deal with their pension records and their issue, with the crumbs that the FBI will give. Instead of making progress in digitising the insurance history, instead of simplifying the legislation to quickly bring pensions, without any cost to the insured, the issue of pensions is privatised, directly burdening the insured. It also legislates an increase in the limits of debt, on the basis of which the debtor can retire, but makes it gypsy, limited. Yes, there must be an increase, but there must be a brave increase, because the data of society, which the government knows but seems to be ignored. Is there any intention of raising these limits? It's unknown. I shall refer specifically to provisions which are unprecedented. You bring us as a pretext to vote in the House and you want to adopt the certified professionals without giving a definition of what certified professionals are. So we in Parliament adopt what the government wants. Second, will it be permanent or temporary? What is the duration of these people's employment if it's going to happen? There's nothing to be said. What does that mean? We're going to a permanent process. And can I tell you something? Paragraph 5a states that in five years' time it may be said that if certified persons are wrong, they will be excluded. So at least five years will have them permanent. Thirdly, they are certified at the successful conclusion of seminars and, in fact, in paragraph 7, they say 'by decision of the Minister'. Then we'll only find out how the training is to be done, who's going to do the certification. Everything with a Minister's decision that will be made later. And I ask you: is there going to be the possibility of any candidate retired to entrust them with his file? That is what the amendment says. He's gonna go look for them. So you understand what's going to happen on the labour market. You understand what will be in advertising: 'We are making good pensions, poor pensions, large pensions, rich pensions'. Fourth theme: the insured person chooses the professional. Is there a matter of mediation? Are we asking the House to adopt such a procedure and imply a matter of mediation by any person insured with the professional after the EPCA has legalised him? Is that a process? It does not assign the file to the office, assigns it to the insured person. Watch out. That is what the amendment wants to impose. He shall pay for each individual operation flat-rate allowances. The amendment has six actions. In paragraph (b) there are six acts. So for each act it will have a specific price. Processing of personal data. Where does it appear that these people will be able to assess, use and process personal data? Who gives them that right? Will they be able to? What guarantee? In addition to the training seminars they need to do, how will they have such possibilities and rights for the management of personal data? In any case, there must be an opinion on the principle of the protection of personal data for the possibilities or not. Because otherwise it's gonna collapse everything that's going to happen. Random sample check. You have heard 5% of the pension awards at random. Why not check the provisional or final pension plans within 30 days? Why when the project comes within 30 days of the signature and becomes a final pension, the check does not go immediately and we go to a decade and an illegal pension produces legal effects for a decade? And what happens after the decade if there's a check? Is it never going to be a check-up? Does he close his eye again to the private for any process he wants? Is this sample sufficient, as they indicate, or is it ineffective? And who's in charge of control? Who's going to be in control? Why don't they mention it? Shouldn't the House know what will happen to these procedures? How are we going to move on? It is a major issue, Mr President, and I will need half a minute. Cases of revocation of project decisions shall be reported, due to error or inconvenience or serious negligence. My colleague, the State Secretary, is, of course, well aware that fraud, gross negligence and error are only legal, nothing else. Who, then, will judge whether there is any error, treacherous or gross negligence? What instrument will he judge? And what body, if it considers that, will it make decisions? What responsibility? It is in the air, ladies and gentlemen, and this provision. It's unacceptable and it's causing. It cannot be accepted and Parliament can come and adopt such procedures. And finally, four ministerial decisions need - in addition to what I have said and which are very little - to make things clear. When they're issued to get pensioners, they're on the air. So we refuse to make the expatriates in the government's communication show, which does not hesitate to use the agony of retired people, without a pension, as a means of micro-participation and the application of 'dats' practices. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr. Mulkiotis. The speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr President. Our rapporteur, Maria Konnakas, fully referred to the Ministry of Justice bill. We will be putting ourselves on the amendment of the Ministry of Labour which is causing the undertakings to be made to the large business groups. But he'll get an answer. Already at the moment, the FBI's employees are protesting at the Ministry. The labor pioneering with the strike gathering on May 6th here in the Constitution will respond to the anti-government and anti-insurance abortion prepared by the government. In this amendment, as we have said, it causes workers. It encroaches on all those who wait for up to five and six years to vindicate the pensions they have paid for in their working life, regardless of whether or not on time. Now you tell them that if they don't apply to the big lawyers and accounting offices to make the application to the FBI, they will wait twice as long as they do. From the pension in two months that one Minister would be leaving, in one month's time, with one click by the former Minister of New Democracy, suddenly Mr. Hatzidakis discovered the bounty of August, as the whole system described. It comes with this amendment and causes, as we have said, workers. It invokes this shift in unfinished pensions, the work of all the governments, which, one day, set the ground to overthrow the social character of insurance and its conversion from social responsibility to individual and the discharge of a state and an employer from the payment of contributions and the introduction of the old political system, and now comes to privatise the pension sector. The temporary award of the pension by the large legal and accounting companies, which is invoked in the amendment, such as all the so-called temporary measures of the memorandum, ten years, says that this story will last, is well known to be permanentized, such as all the measures, by exacerbating the terms of pay, work and life of workers. The pending applications for the award of pensions by the main and the auxiliaries and the ones have exceeded four hundred and fifty thousand. All the governments of the capital have taken over the insurance funds, they have opened the private-insurance courier, they have reduced employers' contributions, they have introduced the national pension of EUR 360, which is now the temporary pension, this has been introduced by the New Democracy Government in his name not to be a worker without any life resources. They have left the services of insurance licensing bodies, subordinated, without the necessary logistics facilities. The New Democracy, as SYRIZA has previously done, instead of recruiting workers, providing logistical infrastructure, does this step of privatisation as part of the overall privatisation of insurance. Fifty and fifty ECA workers were retired in 2020. In 2021, with data from the workers themselves, seven hundred other workers will be retired. From the former OGA, farmers' pensioners were transferred to other places, thus increasing the situation and not getting out of pensions. Workers who have been employed in fixed-term contracts, with various programmes, which were about six hundred eighty-eight, according to the figures of the workers who were trained in the field and engaged in the issue of pensions, have been made redundant. Why is it all this? Computers, too, are few. More than three employees can share a computer with six codes they need. They're outdated and stuck. And the government refuses to buy the necessary computers and the logistics infrastructure. Why is it all this? With the amendment, the Government grants these powers to large legal and accounting offices. Converts EKKA workers to employees of large legal and accounting offices. What does the amendment say? Certified professionals shall determine the time of insurance to one or more bodies, main or ancillary, and issue such a certificate, establish whether or not the self-employed or selfemployed person’s contributions are due and issue such a certificate or application for an arrangement. They shall calculate the amount due for the recognition of a fictitious year and issue a certificate in question. They shall draw up a draft temporary pension decision and a final main and supplementary pension. They shall issue the pre-retirement certificate referred to in Article 47 of Law 2676/1999. They shall draw up a draft debt settlement operation. How are they going to do all this? They'll have the FBI officials at their service to give the files ready and every element in the certified professionals. That's what the arrangement is for. The decision of the commander of the ECAI shall be defined in each pension service by officials responsible for the uninterrupted cooperation of certified professionals with the ECA, the provision of information from the physical or electronic files and the response to questions relating to cases examined by certified professionals. In other words, the entire work will be done by the FBI officials and will be rewarded by the big lawyers and accounting companies. Isn't that the reality? So whoever goes and submits the application to the FBI, and not to the legal and accounting offices, will wait many years, because the employees will be employed with them. By entrusting - it says - it is automatically provided, even if it is not explicitly mentioned in the document concerned, authorisation to process personal data relating to the contractor or licensee. But the insured, gentlemen, we all know where the accredited person is going to investigate is in the SGC along with all the other employees of the company. So in the hands of the accredited person it will be the sum of the employees' data. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Your tolerance, Mr President. It is scandalous to grant to private agencies that, within the framework of their powers as a public body, EKKA is the only person responsible for providing as much security and reliability as possible, such as pensions and insurance benefits and any other service to all insured persons. The fact that the institution appears ineffective and weak to fulfil its essential obligations, leading to the direct award of pensions, is the responsibility of all governments. They are consciously delaying the extradition of pensions. What do you actually do, gentlemen? You are moving towards a forced internal loan by retired people with tens of billions of euros that should have been to retired people. You're undermining the FBI, deceiving him and leading him to full privatization. That is why there has been no single euro since the beginning of the operation of the ECA, no one permanent employee has been recruited, and conditions of employment are created for the remaining workers. Of course, you are dismayed at the workers. We are talking about an incomprehensible attack by the Minister so that all this policy can be handled easily. So whoever pays the certified private office, in some cases, will retire much faster, because beyond this voucher that EFKA will pay, there will also be the "fast" that the insured himself will pay to the same company. We are therefore calling for the immediate withdrawal of the amendment, for the new attempt to mobilise the insured and the retired. Of course, the solution is the immediate recruitment of permanent staff, the provision of logistical infrastructure for the service of insured persons. Here too, the government cannot hide the great responsibilities it has in its entirety for the great problem created by the ongoing pensions and the insurance benefits to workers as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr Katsotis. The Minister of Education, Mr Syrigos, has the floor now in order to place him on the amendment by a general number of 859 and a specialist number 51.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u31	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Education has tabled an amendment with four articles. In the first Article, Article 13 of Law No 4186/2013 is amended as regards the date on which the number of importers was established at the universities in the country. It is stated that instead of 15 April, it will be on 15 May. The second article on the addition - an amendment defines the powers of the Rector's Board in relation to Law 4777. The third article defines the newspapers at the University Hospitals "Aretaire" and "Egyptio" and in the fourth article we have some provisions for the completion of the TEI's practices or clinical laboratory exercises. More specifically, as regards the first Article, the period for the adoption of the Ministerial Decision determining the importers by school and a section is extended by one month. The aim is to have the necessary time to prepare and coordinate better all the actors involved, including the HEIs, for the final adoption of the Ministerial Decision, since prior opinion of the schools is required and cooperation between schools and universities often needs to be established. The second article addresses the question of the immediate adoption of decisions concerning the establishment of the security and protection committees of each university institution and the adoption of the relevant safety plans. With the third article we have a problem, which exists only for two university clinics in the country, for "Artites" and "Egyptio". Some time ago, we had discussed this - a relevant provision for the members of the 'Artites' and 'Egyptian' VDU in relation to newspapers. We now anticipate that this is the case for LPIS members, LPISs and academic scholars. The possibility of participation in the on-calls of expressly defined qualifications is thus provided. The fourth article is one of these articles, which, unfortunately, we must take a decision because of a coronary. It was not possible to conduct clinical, practical or laboratory exercises at the undergraduate students TEI. I would remind you that under the existing system, the students of TEIs in 2019 were able to choose whether they would take courses at the TEI or go to a university department. Those who chose to stay at TEI were required within a certain period of time, which now ends this semester, to complete their clinical practices or laboratory exercises in order to be able to obtain the relevant degree. Since there is this whole procedure of suspension of clinical practices and laboratory exercises, students and students have not been able to carry out them, so we are giving them this possibility, giving them an extension for the time necessary to complete the above exercises, so that they can normally complete and obtain their degree without a problem. Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr Secretary, for the brief time and the precise position. Now we continue with the MP of the Greek Solution, Mr Constantine Buba. Mr. Booba, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u33	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, first of all we must say that we have had a protest this morning and that people have done well, they are shouting for their own. But professional drivers, as my cab drivers used to say, were not aware. They were uninformed about this course, so there was a hurdle of communism and they couldn't go to their jobs. I'm saying this because you, the government, weren't you the ones who voted for a law where you would have contacted the head in order to keep the world informed and not troubled? I'm saying this to see what's going on with the practicer. Let's go a little bit to the command. Aristotle used to say "the ruler's chariot", that is, it's difficult to command. There are a lot of clear words that we could mention for the administration. The great Solon said "learning ruler, draws up" because if you are not commanded, you cannot command. Today we are talking about a model of administration of justice, but it is unfortunately being created - my fellow Member, Mr Hetas, has said it - two categories of judicial officers, the satellites around the judges, who cannot function without the satellites, my Minister, and the water owls, second-class judicial officers, who have to carry out bureaucratic clashes in the predatory judicial decision-making that is stacked. Because the ultimate purpose of this specific code that we need to decode - because all the codes want decoding - is to see how they work, in order to carry out and facilitate the judicial work so that we can quickly have justice, without obstructions and to improve what we are saying very quickly, the quality of justice. Isn't that the ultimate purpose, my Minister? That's him. So here can't the seminars have up to 100 molecules and the degrees thirty or forty - five molecules. So there are reactions here. Reactions exist by the Association of Judges and Prosecutors and by the Federation of Judges on these two branches of documentation and assistance and communication of international relations. They say it. So what do the judges say? They cannot interpret judicial decisions and represent judicial officers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u34	For the bill...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u35	I see the reaction. Does it or does it not? Minister, excuse me. I read the announcement and objections of the Association of Judges and Prosecutors. It's not mine.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u36	For the Association of Judges and Prosecutors, yes...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u37	Good. Shouldn't we listen to them? They had their doubts...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u38	I'm telling you, you're the other one.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u39	I say about judges and prosecutors, as well as the Federation of Judiciary officials. Should their opinion not be heard, their reaction, their disagreement on the matter? It's democratic, isn't it?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u40	But we discussed this in committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u41	Yeah, but they do. I repeat it. As far as shortcomings are concerned, some statistics are given here. On average, with the European Union, we are not far behind. We're going pretty well. You know it. Most of you are legal. It is 25.8 judges per 100 000 inhabitants, when the average of the European Union is about 21, in Germany 24,2, in Spain 11,5, in Italy 10,6, in France 10,4. But where are we going? Where is the problem in Greece, as is the issue of the Ministry of Health? Why don't we go well to health? It is not just a matter of medical and nursing staff, it is also an issue of an administrative model in hospitals. Administrative staff are not qualified in knowledge, so today we have a malfunction in hospitals because of the administrative model. What do the evidence say? The Council of Europe accounts for 3.1 employees per judge. In the Council of State, the CTB is a half employee per judge. So we can't have command. We must guarantee that there is a balanced administrative development in the courts. Don’t create employees and employees b, because that’s where we'll have reactions. We'll have some injustices with regard to the evolution of employees. We cannot, in other words, put them in time for the matter of seniority. In order to create skilled administrative officials - I am not saying, you may have that intention and you have it well, because specialisation is everything - I am stumbling up is what will help. "A start of learning begins to draw." I'm supervising it is what's going to make a difference. No one's going to see. But we must see it, because the injustice of administrative officials in the courts can create and produce the negative results. We, as a Greek Solution, tell you not to create different factions, different categories and different levels of employees from one moment to the next. You're going to put on old times, put on the experience they get. As on the subject of digitalised justice, of course, I will give you a negative element. Greece is therefore the last country in terms of the degree of introduction of information systems and computerisation. Get in, check the statistics, and you'll see it. We are not going well on the subject of technology so that we can simplify, overcome obstacles, resolve bureaucratic claws with a view to serving the citizen. I take this opportunity today to say that we, as a Greek Solution, addressed all parties, independent of ideological navigation, and told you about some dangerous judicial seminars in relation to training texts for first residence. Here is Mr Tsiaras who has tabled the timely question as a Greek Solution since July 2020. And he had the courage to say that, yes, there is a training document that the judges say to the incumbent representatives of Themidas, to the new judges: "Should you take out potential delusion to the subjects, that is to say to the borrowers and support the banks." With my regret, all my fellow Members and my counterparts from the Greek Solution, none of the parties, while they knew it and their leaders, took a stand. Not to interfere with the judiciary. I have heard Mr Ploiros say at some point that 'we cannot intervene in the judiciary'. We didn't ask you, gentlemen, to intervene in the judiciary. It's not the thing that touched you on who says it, as a Greek solution, but the point is what he says. We were just talking about it. You have not taken a position to condemn it. Why am I saying that? Themida must be well-dressed and the clothes she wears and we go today to make her be with a uniformity, an elegance and a comfort. I say this because the Marios Ice a while ago vindicates what we were calling the Greek Solution. And as lawyers, Mr. Xanthopoulou, you didn't take a stand. You are many lawyers in the Chamber and representatives of the people and not Members of Parliament. So, what the Marble Ice says? "No, gentlemen. You will not take off the subjects with potential deceit to support the banks." It's the current Ice Bay decision. He says: “We will see what circumstances. We'll see how these people came to this economic situation. Did they lose their job? Has their income been shattered?’ So you cannot invoke the saying: 'the just thing, or the carpenter'. It's not the law of the mighty. So the Marios Ice here did his job and he comes to justify what we called the Greek Solution so that the borrowers can also resurrect and those who are entitled to, need special treatment in the face of justice. That's why it's the quintusia of democracy. Yesterday we were talking about a damper day. The citizen must feel that toward him Themida embraces him. As in the question of health and education, it is also a matter of justice. But there really must be fair criteria in there, there must be a well-being, an organisation and a smooth and proper function in justice, so that we do not have sick citizens. The disease among citizens is when there is no law against them to judge them. Why is it that the timeless saying is what it is, ladies and gentlemen? 'The sword of justice has no case'. So this case must be removed, so that we can have courts that operate properly, with satellites and not waterbirds - there we have reservations as Greek Solution - that you want to create, to be truly close to the citizen. It's what we say you'll first be a rower if you're even a judge and then you'll get the helm in your hands. "Erete is first born before he has laid a helmet." This is Aristophane's time-consuming saying and justice. So create and lay foundations. Make a court of law. If you see the Court of Justice in Serres, Mr. Chiara, it's about to fall. We go with PPP now and I don't like PPPs in justice.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u42	He's in. It's going to be a new one.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u43	It came in, but the PPP, the public-private partnership in justice, I don't like it. It's my personal opinion. At least it's programmed. So solve both the logistics infrastructure, computerized systems, digitalised systems and building facilities in the courts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr. Boomba, too. Mr. Kotsiras, Deputy Minister of Justice, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u45	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate on the draft law of the Ministry of Justice on the Code of Justice and on the reform sought by this legislative initiative comes to debate a very serious and detailed debate, in my view, which has taken place in the relevant parliamentary committee, where important issues have indeed been raised by all the representatives of the parties. The Minister, Mr Tsiaras, as he has done in the majority of the bills that have come from the Ministry of Justice, shows in practice that the Ministry's political leadership respects the proposals and parliamentary dialogue in practice, and that is why we have proceeded with the adoption of productive proposals that have been made by all colleagues. It is an initiative for this draft law that comes to be added to the overall reform policy designed and implemented by this government, and even at a difficult time for the country, within the pandemic, demonstrating that the right, institutionally measured and necessary initiatives for the proper functioning of justice continue and are guided by the government, as the Prime Minister himself has repeatedly said. So we see in this bill that emphasis is placed on upgrading and making effective use of the human resources that make up the area of justice, a very important factor in its smooth functioning, along with the important effort being made in other areas, such as supporting justice by means of its more digitized operation, such as strengthening justice with best practices applied in other countries, or more codifying legislation, so that there can be a framework of overall and broader management by judicial officers and by judicial officers, but also by the judiciaries of justice, so that we can actually take a step - a step forward - in a better, qualitative and institutionally armored administration of justice. The human element in this process undoubtedly has an important role and many times the role of the human factor is irreplaceable. That is why this draft law shields the Staff Regulations of Judiciary, strengthens their powers. There are considerable predictions made by the legislator, which started the preparation of the institutional framework by the previous government. And that, as the Minister said, was an indication of the rational management of state continuity, with specific remarks, proving that, in the area of justice, the effort is not a static effort, but an effort that has dynamic characteristics and we all have to take a step - a port - a port - to add measures that will improve and shield the very sensitive area of justice. This area really is aware that it needs interventions which are very multi-dimensional. The Code of Civil Procedure which will come in a short time, Criminal Procedure, the Criminal Code, the Code of Judiciary, this code. These interventions are a framework, a puzzle within which justice can operate more qualitatively, with institutional safeguards. Obviously, in this way, we will help speed up its award, which, in fact, is a key objective over time. And for our Government, however, it is a very important chapter to assess and use it. So it is not a fragmentary piece of legislation, but it is a process after long follow-up and solves problems functionally and organisationally within the Judiciary, whose contribution is undeniably extremely important for the day-to-day life of justice. As I said, arrangements are being made to strengthen the framework for the continuing education and training of judges. There is provision for the restructuring of the branches of the judicial officers. The conditions are laid down for the way in which the College of Judges and their duties are brought into office and for ensuring an adequacy, rational and modern system of judges' evaluations. So problems that also have timeless features are solved, but they are also required for the most modern ones, for the quickest and modern functioning of justice in its everyday life. The most important, however, in my view, initiative and regulation of this draft law in the Code of Justice is the creation of the two new branches of judiciary, which will assist judiciary officials in their work. These will strengthen the specific knowledge and training they will have - after a competitive process, following a specific education that they will receive - but they will also meet vital needs in the area of justice, qualityly strengthening the institutional function of judges and prosecutors on a daily basis, as well as speeding up the process and facilitating judges in their daily work, in my view giving a quality and assistance to judges at critical points in their daily assessment. I do not understand - and we have said so in committee - this suspicion, this reservation, perhaps even fearful many times, of whatever is added to our legal system. This institution - and, indeed, in a much more advanced way - exists in too many legal systems, which are not just advanced and we are trying to say that they are more advanced than the Greek one, but they are also systems which have common characteristics with our own in their legal form. In France, whose legal system is largely similar to ours, in Germany, in the European Union court, where they are chosen by the judges themselves, in the European Court of Human Rights there is the institution which assists the judge in the day-to-day performance of his duties. And obviously there is no question, for obvious reasons, of any kind of intervention in its judgment. It is also inconsistent with the very provision and prediction of the Constitution and the provision of Article 87 of the Constitution, which is also contrary to reality itself. The judge who has full operational and personal independence knows very well how to assess a case, knows very well how to make his investigation and his assessment of the case, but he obviously also needs help, which will be qualitative and important aid in carrying out his duties. The other sector, which concerns judicial communication and international relations, will also help to protect the justice institution itself from the misinformation that is often in relation to decisions, but also to strengthen its extroversion, which is fully compatible with the justice we want and we need in modern Greece and in modern European times where we want to play an important role. I do not understand many times the criticism of this: since justice has so much problems, why are you doing this? Efforts to solve the problems of justice have no divorcing features. We don't either do one or the other. It has cumulative characteristics. And one and the other. And with great interventions in the institutional shielding of the role of justice and with measured interventions in the legislative framework, in the procedural framework, in the organisational framework of justice, but also with modern, innovative and tested solutions such as this one. I do not think, therefore, that there is any reason for any reservation when something new comes into our country, when anything new and innovative is added to the process and, indeed, to institutions such as justice, which, as we have said before, do indeed need measured and institutional interventions. Because in this way we will be able the next day to face up to the many challenges being more institutionally shielded, but we will obviously be more compatible with the good practices that other countries have adopted for many years, but also with institutions that have adopted and which have succeeded. Obviously, the problems of acceleration are not only solved by one intervention. We need to see one, one of the arrangements which help to have more rapid and operational and, obviously, institutionally shielded functioning of justice. I should like to close, Mr President, so as not to abuse the time - in any case the details of the bill analysed them, and the rapporteur of the New Democracy in their details and, in my view, also a great consensus from the opposition parties, as appeared in the committee - was the following: In a difficult period of time, such as this is the case, the fact that the Ministry of Justice comes and interventions that have reforming characteristics, which strengthen the seriousness and the shielding of the area of justice, is an indication of the continuity of the state, of the modernisation of the area of justice and it is also an indication that the next day will find us armoured, reinforced and very wide-ranging interventions, which will solve the daily problems of justice, then obviously the consultation needed and then, obviously, a serious processing traditionally carried out by the head of the Ministry of Justice. The opinion of the Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, is declared that despite the difficulties that the country is experiencing, we are moving forward with reform, we are moving in a measured and modern manner to solve the daily problems of justice, but also with institutional problems that will be the basis for the resolution and the role of the country the next day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u46	And thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. Mr Lebanese, the Minister for Rural Development and Food now has the floor, in order to put it under general number 867 and a special 56 amendment. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am here today to support the amendment under a general number 867 and a special 56. Because I understand that you have had controversy with another, I think it will give us a chance to all agree and vote together, because, as I have said, our agricultural issues are united. In March, therefore, we voted for a provision on the transfer of a third-country citizen, by way of derogation from the existing legislation, to work in the seasonal rural economy. We have provided for this procedure to be carried out through an electronic platform, to which the employer's application will be submitted with the supporting documents, in order to check the entry and residence and work of the foreign worker, to be more flexible and to comply with the health protocols. For the operation of this electronic platform seven Ministries are involved, as well as the commander of the Independent Public Income Authority. For each Ministry concerned, and in the interest of its competence, all necessary elements should be provided for in this procedure and for the interconnection between them. As you can see, this takes time, but it does not exist, since there are crops which should be harvested immediately. To be harvested, they also need workers' hands. So this amendment comes to give an immediate solution to the introduction of land workers for the benefit of our farmers before the launch of the electronic platform for all producers. We have already anticipated this last time for asparagus and it has been successfully done, that is to say, the application with the necessary documents to be submitted either by post office or by e-mail. The maximum number of workers in each region, specialisation and production is already provided for in a joint ministerial decision. The process that we are now extending to all the activities of the seasonal rural economy, as I said before, has already worked perfectly well in the harvesting of the caves, without creating the slightest question. The possibility of entering without the platform, but with all the sanitary protocols, is given until 15 June 2021. I think it is useful to support the amendment together, to give our producers the opportunity to have the necessary workers' hands at this difficult time, in order to do their job. When the platform is ready, work itself through this platform is done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u48	And we thank the Minister. Before I give the floor to the Deputy Minister of National Defence, Mr Stefanis, in order to put it under general number 864 and a special 53 amendment, I would like once again to personally as a Member of the West Attica and because this amendment refers to the Elefsina Shipyards, to thank the Government and the State Secretary, but also the other co-presidents responsible for this amendment, which comes and is repeated - if you are watching - every quarter, until the final solution to be given by the new property, which the Eleusina shipyards are to take over, as was done with the Syrian shipyards. I must tell you that it refers to a sum of EUR 3,175 000 in order to deal with the payment by the Navy of the monthly wages of workers, which is extended for another quarter, namely 1 April to 30 June. I would like to say that it was important for the Bureau and the workers' association to contribute to the Elefsina shipyards. This amendment is always supported by all the Parliament's wings. It is an amendment that gives a way out, so that these people too can be paid, and especially during this time of year, to make Easter. I should also like to say that together, Minister, together with the other ministers and all those involved, we must do our utmost to ensure that there is new ownership, which will also relieve you of giving extensions every three months and that money that is for the payment of workers. Thank you again. Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u49	Mr President, thank you very much. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am given the opportunity today to present an amendment from the Ministry of National Defence of a general number 864, which is part of the draft law of the Ministry of Justice entitled 'Code of Justice' and contains seven provisions. I will be very brief and thank the President who has already introduced this issue. The first two provisions concern the Scaramaga shipyards and Elefsina shipyards. What's the basis, and why are we doing it? We're doing them for a number of reasons. The first reason is to enhance the operational readiness of the Armed Forces to take our ships better, so that we can have them ready if required. The second is the social person of this extension. In cooperation with the administration and the workers we are ensuring that they are active, working and, of course, using them in this work, which they know extremely well to do; shipbuilding ships. So two are the actions. One action is for the missiles, the other for the submarines. One at a shipyard each other. We have already taken one of the two missiles, number 6, Karathanasse. It's already operational. Its work has been completed at a rate of 90%. There is a minimum left, which we are currently dealing with. The rocket number 7 is about 60%. It has been launched and we are now intervening while it is in the water, to complete all of what we have to do. The sums are EUR 3,175,000 at one shipyard and EUR 10,300,000 at the other shipyard. This money is for payrolls, but also for materials that need to be purchased, so that they can be placed on our ships. The third provision concerns the extension of the term of administration of the associations. We have the Union of Adolescent Officers, which has fifty-four clubs under the Panhellenic Union, one for each county. We are addressing an audience of over twenty thousand adolescents who have been fired and run the Armed Forces' reserve capacity. Through this extension, when the time comes and when we have escaped the crisis, we will be able to hold elections properly. At the same time, it allows us to do something that we have undertaken with great honour: the Conference of NATO of Adolescents. There will be bases here from all NATO countries and from countries working with NATO, and there will be mutual information, education, discussion on the issues that concern us. The fourth and fifth provisions are related to the use of the material. Old material of the Armed Forces, but also new material that is now non-operationally necessary, enables us to make auctions or contact defensive material companies and exchange it. Old ammunition for new ammunition, old items for new items. It is something that has already worked out, and we have already done so for a year. The competitions we're competitions pay off. We are making full use of material that is not operationally necessary in the Armed Forces. We are able with this provision to standardise procedures even more and to be much faster. The sixth provision deals with the time limits for students to study in ADISPO. The High School of War is a school that every officer of the Armed Forces - Army, Navy, Air Force - must pass it, because it is a prerequisite for its further development. We extend the limits instead of the fifteen years of presence until twenty - five of an officer in the Armed Forces, we make it sixteen and twenty - six. In this way we can have more officers to participate in the school, so that we can enable more executives to be trained and not miss the opportunity for their growth. The last provision relates to the transfer of property by the Autonomous Construction Agency Officers in zone 2. It is an old topic, which has been employing the service for forty-one years since 1980, and has been concerned with an area which has been rented for sports reasons in an area of Hymettos which cannot be done any more. We now give the opportunity to negotiate the terms with the parties concerned and to acquire and exploit our real estate. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. All that I mentioned above comes into a wider framework of the Ministry of National Defence, which has to do with the following: We increase our operational capabilities, we make use of our real estate and we care for our staff. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u50	We thank you, Minister, and especially myself, for one part of what you have said is mentioned in my own constituency. Ladies and gentlemen, if you want to ask the Minister present, you have the opportunity. The rapporteur's first hand was raised on the Greek side, Mr Hetas. Here, Mr. Heta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u51	Mr President, thank you. Mr Secretary, Mr Stefani, you are very well aware that in the area of Armed Forces, National Defence, we are always with you, and we are always positive, as we are with the amendment. Just, "for the fear of the Jews", which we say at one time, I want a clarification from you to be absolutely sure. I do not hide from you that it eats me a little bit from inside, so I would like to ask you to be absolutely quiet, because, otherwise, we are positive to everything, we are not talking about it. In Article 7, in the Autonomous Civil Officers' Organisation, we are a little concerned here that says: 'to be granted without competition and in exchange for clubs or other non-profit-making legal entities governed by public law or private law'. Is there any chance that a NGO will blow up tomorrow? No, right? That is what we are afraid of, I tell you frankly, that there is no NGO. Because the "out here" hides in the little letters, in the details, it sat us in the eye very badly. Of course we are in favour, again, just to clarify it, I would like you to disprove us in the Minutes as well and to be clear that there is no way for us to see any NGO popping out tomorrow - tomorrow. That's nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr. Heta. Now she has the floor to ask the Minister, Maria Konnaka, of the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, first of all, let us clarify that in the first two articles on the Elefsina shipyard and the submarines, as we have voted in favour of any other extension, we are positive. Of course, the common problem that exists in other cases also applies, that they come together with other articles in which we may have disagreements. I wanted to ask, first of all, about Article 7. You, you say, for the last time an extension to the possibility of renting these properties. And we ask ourselves: after these five years these needs of sports, environmental, cultural and others cease to exist? What about the clubs? We also have complaints from various clubs that there are pressures to abandon similar property that has been granted. We would like to know which criteria are chosen which clubs will come out of these properties and why. And a detailed question for Article 5. We understand the replacement of old equipment. However, we are concerned about the replacement of unused equipment, why, anyway, we have supplied the supplier and it is finally replaced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u54	Minister, Mr Stefani, you have the floor, if you like, to give clarifications which have been requested.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u55	Thank you very much, Mr President. I come to the joint question you both have raised. The AOOOA holds around the six hundred properties, which it rents all over Greece. In this area, zone B of the protection of Hymittos has only three. One property is thirty-two acres and the other two are two hundred ninety-two acres and three hundred acres. The two big properties are woodlands, there's nothing there. Thirty-two acres since 1980 have been rented by an Anti-Semitism Association which has two thousand members. Since 1980, it was taken as a field and slowly the club at its own expense has begun and is building it and now has five fields, catering areas, accommodation areas, etc. What do we achieve with that? It went through a decision of the AEOA Board of Directors that, first of all, we are changing the rent and from 1,800 euros a month to 11,800. So we're making use of real estate. I confirm in the clear answer I give to you that it is this club which has about two thousand members, people in the region, who have no other place for them to be sported. It is therefore also a social provision for society to continue to fight in an area where, if we are to stop using because it belongs to the protection zone, nothing else can be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u56	But you're saying there won't be another extension.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u57	Forgive me. I can't hear you if you're asking me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u58	I don't want to interrupt you, but it says there will be no further extension of the lease after five years.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u59	We in the first phase resolve an issue, because since 2017 there have been actions on both sides and we want to end this. So we solve one issue and give a solution. We'll see then. We're given time. As far as your second question is concerned, I would like to say what it is about the material that we are approaching. It concerns material which is either useless or usable, not operationally necessary. In other words, the Armed Forces have too many materials. I will give you an example: Radio Sprays. Radios no longer operate with lamps. They work in another way. But the lamps are functional, so they are easy to use. These lamps, however, do not have the corresponding means to place them. Why should we keep them or throw them as a shampoo and not go into a process of making use of them and making money? It is one of the 11 strategic choices of the government to make use of the real estate and the Ministry of National Defence implements it with passion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u60	Thank you too, Minister. The New Democracy MP, George Kotrias, will now be given the floor and then the Greek Parliamentary Representative, Mr. Vassiliardos. Mr. Kotraya, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a rule of law entails a strong and unbiased system of justice and the defence of the ideal of human rights. A system based, above all, on strengthening and supporting the role of its own officials, with final beneficiaries, of course, society and citizens. Judiciary officials, a dynamic part of the functions of justice, are a key pillar of this building. With this draft law, through the rationalisation and modernisation of the framework in which they operate, with provisions for their service and situation, the broadening of their areas of competence, their modelling, continuing training, evaluation and objective development, this pillar is certainly strengthened and stronger the uninterrupted and rapid efficiency of justice for citizens. Let's look at the bill a little more detailed. In Articles 4 to 10, the Code of Judiciary shall be in line with the Code of Civil Service with regard to their appointing obstacles and the abolition of the provision of the maximum age limit during the relevant procedure. The bill provides for a number of articles that strengthen the judiciary, as well as the professional status of judicial officers and promote their continuing training and education. Article 11 provides for the coverage of the positions of judges in particular of the IP, TE and PP Sectors of Secretaries and Translators - Interpreters exclusively by written invitations to tender. Articles 20 and 22 define their graduation on the basis of their formal academic qualifications and the faster development for graduates of the National School of Public Administration, as well as the required additional formal qualifications. In Article 21, important branches such as the Statistical Office, are added, for example, to the work of extracting complex and reliable statistical data. Articles 123 to 127 form a framework of transparency in the continuing training of judicial officers, since for the first time those who follow any training programme, including short-term, a seminar, are obliged to submit a written follow-up report after its completion. Finally, Article 128 provides for the possibility of obtaining a licence for a year of service in the course of the career of judges, even for the acquisition of a postgraduate degree. Particular importance through this draft law is given to the way in which judicial officers are assessed, as it attempts to adopt a modern and, above all, worthwhile system of evaluation of the work and their suitability to cover a particular post. The evaluation criteria focus on the knowledge of the subject, the efficiency of the staff member and his service relationships, while introducing an assessment of them from the existing ones for the first time. The Personal Register of Judges shall be established and a minimum period shall be set for the Chiefs to carry out an evaluation of their subordinates, as mentioned above. The evaluation shall be carried out by means of a report independently drawn up by the immediate Head and the immediate superior of the staff member and, of course, by any assessor, shall retain the right to object before the relevant Staff Board, which shall act upon hearing both parties, and the interview in the evaluation process shall also be established. Equally detailed is described in the bill and the process of promoting judicial officers and the taking over of positions of responsibility, such as Head of Directorate-General and Department. In this context, for the first time, a system of mobilisation of evaluation criteria based, firstly, on educational qualifications, secondly, on professional experience of the subject of the service and, thirdly, on the individual skills of candidates. A prerequisite for applying for head of positions is the completion of a minimum period of judicial experience and the existence of a minimum number of candidates for each post for the sake of transparency and integrity. Articles 147, 149 and 150 clarify issues which have a significant impact on both the professional and the personal and family life of the judicial officers, as well as issues relating to the conditions and procedures for their movement and transfer for reasons of health, co-responsibility, etc. Innovation of the new code is the introduction of two new branches of judicial officers, who come to work as an adjunct to the work of judges. This is the Judiciary Documentation and Assistance Sector and the Judiciary and International Relations Division. With regard to the first, his role focuses on supporting and strengthening judicial and public prosecutors, carrying out coordination and programming tasks. And because I have listened to many colleagues who have had some objections, the role of the judge is not substitutable in any case, but they are assisted. In other words, they are, in fact, helping to deal with practical matters, as well as with the documentation of cases handled by judicial officers. The officials of the industry will come from judicial officers and the competitive procedure for their admission will be carried out exclusively by judicial officers in the industry concerned. This is followed by the successful example and best practices of international courts. The same goes for the establishment of the Judiciary and International Relations Division, which is responsible for the management of information in the field of justice. And here is the example of the judiciary systems of most European countries and the European Union itself, where higher and higher courts keep press and information services, press offices and accounts on social networking networks. Articles 66 and 82 provide for the administration of the relevant departments, in particular the Supreme Courts, with specialised officials and, finally, Articles 73 to 82, regulate all the matters of such officials. It is clear, ladies and gentlemen, that the bill modernises and improves the working conditions of the judicial officers and thus ensures the proper functioning of the National Judicial System for the benefit of citizens. It is a bill that worked very hard, had the positive opinion of the workers, and I believe that it should be accepted by the unanimous vote of all of Parliament's wings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u62	We are also grateful to Mr Kotrias and to him for the consistency in time. Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution Mr. Vassiliardos, after preparing for the Step. As you can see, we're taking care of health above all and above all. Here, Mr. Villarde, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u63	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, Mr Secretary, your introduction has been quite informative. Starting with the bill, we will only be referring in general, after our rapporteur has analysed it, such as the fact that a particularly favourable and, in some cases, in our view, a photographic framework for the officials of the judiciary, such as their ability to take a long-term leave, is created so that they study abroad. In this regard, we consider it a mistaken arrangement, since we are talking about officials appointed and paid by the State. With such arrangements it is not surprising that there is so much bureaucracy, as well as so much delay in the justice system. Furthermore, the current government accused the previous one of its transactions with civil servants. So it's not good for him to follow the same path, if not even the worst path. In any case, we have not seen any provision of sanctions for inadequate and inappropriate officials, while the evaluation process is rather typical, having just been legislated to be in the Code of Justice. As far as the general disciplinary provisions are concerned, they are very loose and flexible, while, as we in our programme emphasise, they are required for the whole of the public, not only for the judges, the establishment and creation of strict control mechanisms. The current control mechanisms favour corruption, cover up inappropriate behaviours and strengthen the party client state, which must obviously cease to be the case. In the bill, there are additional provisions for multiple permits, completely unequal to those in the private sector, which makes the common sense reasonable. For example, with a rough approach, we have seen that it is very easy for judicial officers to be absent almost two months from their service, and yet to be paid normally. Obviously, it's not right. Especially now, with regard to Articles 165 and 166, which introduce as a disciplinary misconduct the refusal to take a medical examination, we hope that the enforceability of vaccination will not be indirectly promoted, with which we do not agree, since we believe that everyone should be free to choose how to behave in his body. As far as justice is concerned, there are long delays, since in civil and commercial matters in Greece in 2016 sixty-seven days after ninety days in 2010, when in Romania there are only one hundred fifty-three, while in Greece there are a thousand eighty-sixteen days when in Romania, seventy-seven. Then we must not ask ourselves why Romania's GDP is growing at a much higher rate than ours, which is constantly falling. It is true, however, that the courts are subordinated to qualified assistants, since the ratio of court staff per judge in Greece is 1.5 versus 3.9 of the average of Europe, according to a study that we will present in the Minutes, confirming what our colleague, Mr Serres of the Greek Solution, said. On the other hand, Greece does not fall short of a number of judges - it is also right - since every 100 000 people are present in Greece 25.8 judges, when Europe's average is 21.5. However, we are not spending, since the budget of the judiciary in Greece is EUR 41.3 per inhabitant, when the average in Europe is EUR 64. In addition, there is a lot of workload in Greece as a result of the memoranda, the sale of public property, the auctioning of private property, the massive bankruptcy, with the weakness of payments, with PPP contracts, with pensions and so on, i.e. all the good things that have brought us the Memorandums and the PSI. In addition, there is pluralism and maliciousness that have deteriorated in recent years, again as a result of the memoranda. Continuing, it is also interesting that, for the first time, the area of judicial communication and international relations is being established, which concerns communication, as well as the management of information to and from the point of view of justice. These are judicial officers who will make contacts with other courts of the interior and abroad, while carrying out additional tasks of contact with the court in relation to the media. What, really - is our question - will the media be involved in and in justice? Isn't that enough of the TV trials we're seeing almost daily? Would they also decide on the correctness of judicial decisions? Finally, as is the case with all the bills, the same excessive legislative powers are adopted to the Minister of Justice - it is with all the Ministries and with all the Ministers - so that he can identify important issues that should be regulated for the sake of transparency through his parliamentary processing. On the other hand, we welcome the reference made by the Minister of State, Mr Gerapetititi, to our rapporteur for the government's intention to reduce the number of independent authorities, as we have asked, as a Greek Solution, repeatedly, since it is unacceptable that there should be more than thirty independent authorities, which naturally cost huge sums when our Constitution only provides for five. We shall continue to refer to the amendment by the Minister for Labour concerning outstanding pensions, as we read it from the media the other day - from the media - and I stress it - without even posting the website of this House, nor being given to us. In the end, of course, it was posted late yesterday, along with a bunch of other amendments, and it is, in fact, a whole bill, with its almost eighty pages, substantiating that the Minister preferred the amendment rather than the bill to avoid public consultation. When he comes, of course, we will ask him - if we are not mistaken - why Article 8 has been deleted with aid for the employment of young people abroad, with the REBRAIN GREECE programme. We have not found it, at least we in the amendment. It was something very positive, and indeed, it had also been arranged today by the Minister, Mr. Hatzidakis, and was also presented in December 2019 by Mr. Brutsis. Obviously, this is in itself a scandal, namely that the media learned it well before Parliament, since it is not possible to inform the House, the MPs from the media. We think it is a disgrace to the government and especially to the Minister, who, instead of informing the Members of Parliament, prefers to celebrate his birthday with a cake that presents him as a superman, as my colleague has said many times. It is being documented in the worst possible way that the government does not have a programme, giving its opinion on what is known as'seeing and doing', as well as on bad communication slogans, such as its reference to the invisible enemy of the pandemic and now in the war of the hundreds of eighty days for pensions, as both of them appear in articles that we will be tabling - later, all together - in the Minutes. Especially in the pandemic, it does not want to see that, with its failed operations, the government is destroying both health and the economy, while it has been proved by the United States - as we will testify in the Minutes - that, whether a country has been locked or not, the consequences of the pandemic are almost the same. In any case, the question of pensions is not something new, since it is constantly mentioned in the assessments of the European Union, that is, the troika with its new name, and earlier in the IMF reports. For example, in the IMF report, after the end of the third memorandum, that is, before entering the fourth memorandum, page 7 - which we will present in the Minutes - it is stated that the fall in insurance expenditure in 2017 was reduced due to the delay in the awarding of pensions, while on page 44 it is stated that any financial problems will require reductions in pensions. We repeat this: Any budgetary problems will require pension cuts. However, the budgetary problems that the current government caused in Greece in 2020 can only be compared with 2009, noting that on page 67 of the IMF study, Greece does not have the highest percentage of GDP financing costs in the European Union, as it is dispersed for the purposes of manipulation of its citizens - this fact, despite the more violent fall of its GDP in history due to the catastrophic memorials imposed on it - and it complements the fact that the old people in Greece are the most exposed to poverty in the European Union. And of course, we're going to testify all this in the Minutes because we want to substantiate everything we say. With regard to the European Union's evaluations, the eighth evaluation and page 8 states that there was an action plan in October 2013 to reduce debts which were not met, and there is a commitment to zeroing by the end of 2020, with the exception of pensions - with the exception of pensions, I stress it - for which the commitment is at the end of 2021. Why, really, are pensions excluded? Because of the indifference to the elderly Greeks, who are considered useless by the troika? Because they're costing, so the less? It's a disgrace! It is stated on page 19 that the amount of outstanding debts was EUR 979 million, of which EUR 485 million is not related to pensions. Therefore, the debts of the main outstanding pensions were EUR 494 million from EUR 497 million in the eighth evaluation, which we will also be tabling in the Minutes. There has therefore been no progress at all, and we have not seen a serious report from the State General Accounting Office on this regulation, with the view that progressively all pensioners will receive the national pension regardless of the contributions they pay. After all, this is the method of Mr Hatzidakis and has proved it too many times. The same logic applies also to the Pissaridis report, since on pages 106 and 107 it clearly states that pension expenditure should be reduced as a percentage of GDP by proposing the adoption of the capitalisation system, but in a damaged country, with a funny stock exchange - literally funny - without the possibility of issuing money, since we belong to the Eurozone, it is impossible to function properly. With regard to the articles, we will only refer to the first, which allows individuals to hire for the extradition of outstanding pensions, at a fee of EUR 480 per month, but without any responsibility - no responsibility - no responsibility - I stress it - for entries and indications of transactions resulting from errors of attestations, as referred to in paragraph g. If it is possible for individuals to have no responsibility! Then Mr Hatzidakis asks why they do not sign with him for the temporary retirement of civil servants! Simplifiedly, because they will have a responsibility and are bound by the Civil Service Code, as we will be tabling in the Minutes. So let's have a search to see why they have reservations. Moreover, he launched to PPC, which, after volunteering, hired the well-known Golden Boys to the offices and contract unions, as evidenced by the accident at Evia, which we will also present in the Minutes. Is the famous digital state incapable of doing so, despite the fact that the 'ATLAS' system has been placed since last year with Mr Brutsi's triumphs - which we will also be tabling in the Minutes? Does the superman need to replace him, obviously, because he didn't do his job properly? It's our question. On the other hand, why have the insured of the former OAU not been able to pay their contributions because of the crisis, for which they were of course not, but the governments of the country? Does the government hate free professionals, as well as small and medium-sized enterprises? It cannot be possible to receive a pension for our fellow people because they have been owed or interrupted, let alone when many of them have completed the minimum pension years, while they are in high-age hostage status, with many having serious financial problems. In addition, their debts account for the amount of medical care, but they were not allowed to make use, which is certainly unfair - extremely unfair - and must be corrected, i.e. all these amounts must be deducted from their debts. In conclusion, we will again emphasise that what we are seeking, as a Greek Solution, is no more than the country's governance, knowing that the multiplier, multiplely gifted Greece, can succeed if a proper macroeconomic policy is implemented, with the aim of producing wealth, before all, without spending more than we receive, just as we all do in our homes, with the ultimate result that we can lend ourselves constantly in exchanges and irresponsibly transfer our own debts to our children, such as the current government. Apparently, no one in his house does anything like that. Of course, we could not go along with any other party, since - with the exception of the JRC, however, we have a measure of contrasting perceptions - all the others contributed to the disaster, if not the betrayal of our country. How? With the monuments, with the mortgage of everything through the signature of the PSI, with the delivery of the name of "Macedonia" and much more. Of course, we have absolutely nothing to do with the extreme neoliberalism of the New Democracy nor with its views on globalisation, which lead our nation to end up in the trash of history. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u64	And we thank Mr. Villardo. I would like to say that Mr Villardos has also taken his denology, his statement and his desire, so as not to be surprised about the time. Mr. George Papaliou from SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance. Here, Mr. Papaliou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u65	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall refer to this draft bill and finally, I shall make a brief reference to the amendment of the Ministry of Labour. Since the health crisis, ladies and gentlemen, the judiciary has been hit at the highest level, since for a long time the courts have been closed. This is something unprecedented, since justice, one of the functions of the democratic culture and the main pillar of the rule of law, is suspended and citizens cannot resort to it, have no access to it. The state, while having time to design the safe way of reopening the courts, did not do so, with the result that there are mobilisations both by the Association of Judges and Prosecutors and by the other justice officials, lawyers and judges, who are critical and important actors in the functioning of justice. Regardless of the health crisis, the problems faced by judicial officers and, in general, the judiciary has been attempting to rule SYRIZA, as far as possible and under the well-known suffocating memorandum conditions, to be dealt with in order to substantially strengthen the functioning of justice. Approximately a thousand judges' posts were proclaimed in Greece, recording and recording technology was introduced in political trials, and the preparation for the introduction of the same technology into criminal trials was started. Today, despite the new crisis - health and economic - it is possible to promote reform interventions, to restore in the area of justice the balances that have been disturbed over the Memorandum and to strengthen justice further so that it can carry out its constitutional mission. Ladies and gentlemen, the great problem of Greek justice is the slowness with which it is being awarded. It is a result of the subordination of the courts, of their growing subordination and of the disparity between judicial and judicial officials - one to three - which is just as reversed by what common sense and needs stress, but also the ratio in Europe. All this, as I said, leads to delays, which are unacceptable to a modern rule of law. The growing subsistence, therefore, and the disparity of judicial and judicial officers who bring about these delays, must be addressed. How's that gonna happen? This can be done by upgrading and the position of judicial officers - institutional and wage-related - with new recruitments and the evaluation of new technologies. New technologies can help the judges' documentary work on the formation of a judicial judge and the adoption of a judicial decision. This documentary work, which also appears as court support, is part of the judicial crisis. However, it is unconstitutional that any direct assistance - assistance to the above project, which means participation in the judicial procedure, which is attempting to introduce with the new branches of judicial officers, the documentation and assistance of judicial works and judicial communication and international relations. The work of the judge shall consist of the formation of a judicial judge and shall be carried out by him exclusively. The assignment of judicial officers, which is general and are not demarcated by the judicial work, as mentioned in the report of the Court of Justice of the Parliament, as well as the work of sorting and preliminary processing - the preparation of cases to judicial officers, refers to the core of judicial function and not to its region, as some speakers have said in terms of Coupling, without even the judicial officers and as a result, those who undertake this work being given personal and operational independence. However, even the duty to process case-law is the task of the judge rather than of judicial officers. With regard to the new branch of Justice and International Relations, the analysis of the consequences of regulation of the bill and the positions of both the Minister and the Deputy Minister of Justice in the committee confirms the objections, objections and reservations, since the members of this new branch would say that they are involved in projects belonging elsewhere, in this case to legal associations and, indirectly - or rather, directly - they will be the voice of the chief judicial officers. And I now come to the amendment from the Ministry of Labour. The vertical increase in the number of outstanding pension applications is a major issue. Let us not forget that this government received a hundred and eighty thousand outstanding applications for retirement, which became four hundred fifty thousand during your administration, Prime Minister. It is therefore a major issue. The scheme has been blocked, with the consequence that potential pensioners are at a dead end, after waiting for a long time for their pensions to be granted. Under the pretext of accelerating the issue of pensions, the Minister of Labour's amendment is tabled, which confers on privately-owned responsibilities for e-ECA in connection with the adoption of decisions on temporary or final primary and supplementary pensions and, indeed, with the costs of insured persons. It is not only about cumulated applications for retirement, but it is permanent. In fact, the delegation is part of the government's wider plan to depreciate and undermine public free social security and to privatise subsidiary insurance in the first phase. In this context, the reduction of ECA staff is also promoted. Thus, instead of conducting the operational restructuring of the ECA, the recruitment of new staff and the strengthening of its logistics infrastructure to support him, he is being blocked, undermined and annulled by his current employees. The award of private pensions is contrary to Article 22 of the Constitution, which provides that the State ensures social security for workers, since, by affecting the core of the right to social security, it undermines its public and free nature. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] By means of this amendment, EVKA is being punished by its employees, who are even converted into employees of certified professionals, i.e., large legal and accounting offices, the public is financially burdened by the payment of flat-rate compensation for the individual transactions entrusted to the certified individuals, as well as by the creation of a certification body for private individuals and their training. The insured are charged mainly and in addition, although the e-ECA is also financed by them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u66	Please complete, Mr. Papaliou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u67	I shall conclude, Mr President. The protection of the personal data of insured persons is also questioned, since the information systems of e-ECA, which contain sensitive personal data, manage them or manage them privately. In other words, there are serious issues of legitimacy, transparency and efficiency, in addition to the constitutional problem that exists. We are therefore also calling for the withdrawal of the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, too. The speaker of the New Democracy, Mr Efstathos Konstantinides, now has the floor. Here, Mr. Constantinidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u69	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law to be passed redefined as the framework for the organisation and functioning of judicial officers has evolved in detail, consultation and discussion in committees. I shall therefore confine myself to a brief reference to new regulations in view of the fact that the provisions of the repealed Law No 2812/2000 are maintained. But almost a generation, twenty years, has passed and a lot has changed in service needs, structures, technical means, in the way of administration of justice, and therefore improvements are needed. So let us see what is envisaged in the new code. The scope is redefined, the codes of civil and judicial officials - where this is permissible - and the qualifications and impediments of judicial officers are redefined, the filling of posts with the planned recruitment planning and the competitive procedure for special posts, the branches and specialities with the establishment of young people, such as the Statistical Library, Documentation and Assistance, Judicial Communication and International Relations. The last two are, in fact, an important innovation in the new code. Thus, there are two hundred and twenty-six posts for Documentation and Assistance and twenty-one for Judicial Communication and International Relations, and for their coverage there are increased specific formal qualifications that meet the current needs of justice. The documentation and assistance sector seeks to support judicial and public prosecutors in the performance of their duties, especially in the highest courts and tribunals in the country. The task of classification, planning and coordination and documentation of cases is, of course, part of their duties, and not of a judicial nature, as has been said too much. The introduction of specialization follows practices in Germany, Austria, France and in the Anglo-Saxon systems. With the other new branch, that of Judiciary and International Relations, it is seeking to staff senior courts with officials who will be able to respond to the specific tasks of informing the public about activities and decisions, organising conferences, working with foreign courts, organisations and networks, and even attending the Internet. It is expected, of course, that European and other systems already have a relevant service, such as the Court of Justice of the European Union, the courts of the United Kingdom, Germany, France, Spain and the Netherlands, with a systematic presence on the social media. The law defines the formal qualifications and duties required by the two new branches, the competitive procedures for filling posts, as well as issues relating to the service, introductory education, their distribution to the courts, their evolution and wage incentives. Other provisions of the draft law ensure a specific institutional status for judicial officers, resolve the question of the staff situation of officials in the courts with regard to the employment of private law for an indefinite period, define the conditions and the way in which they are to be introduced into this House, as well as their duties, and establish a system for the assessment of judicial officers on three axes. Firstly, on the basis of knowledge and creativity, secondly, on the basis of service relations and behaviour to the public and thirdly, on the basis of their effectiveness. In addition, for the first time, moleculosis from participation in training seminars is established, and permits and incentives are provided for their ongoing training. New criteria are laid down for selecting heads, on the one hand, objectively and on the other, on the profile of candidates. Finally, the disciplinary law and the grounds for resolving the staff relationship shall be redefined. Ladies and gentlemen, in all its dimensions, the new code is an integrated and coherent system for the functioning of the judiciary. It adopts modern instruments and methods that will significantly contribute to the service development, the encouragement and motivating of employees, as well as the increase of their productivity, while new branches will strengthen the work of judges and the communication with the contributors to justice, other professionals, citizens and organisations in Greece and abroad. Its establishment is not yet a programme commitment by the Government, which is implemented by the current political leadership of the Ministry of Justice. The institutional, digital and other interventions of the current government upgrade the area of justice and the rule of law of the country. And that's not what I'm saying. This is what the European Commission says in a 2020 report, which was recently presented on 20th of the month, at a teleconference of the General Affairs Council of the European Union. There Greece accepted the credit for the progress of reforms, the strengthening of transparency, digital transformation, the strengthening of the rule of law in general, and was in a significantly improved position over the previous years and this is due to the reforms of the state of service. This restores the crack that the government caused in June 2019 then of SYRIZA, by converting the crime of corruption from a felony to a defect, see Contonis. These interventions are an institutional acquis and a strong weapon against bureaucracy and corruption. The report underlines emphatically the digital reforms in justice, such as system interoperability, e-monitoring of cases, electronic performance and unification of multiple certificates, the use of digital signatures, all of which are integrated in the context of the general digital transformation of public administration, with more than a thousand different operations being able to take place through the Gov.gr digital platform. We therefore hope that the next evaluations that will include institutional interventions, such as today, will increasingly place the country in the international positive rankings, where it deserves it. We are therefore voting in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u70	We too thank Mr Constantinidis and the consistency in time. The speaker of the Change Movement, Mr George Kamines, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u71	The problems in the field of justice are well known: a great shortage of staff, with subordinated services, inadequacy of infrastructure and buildings. It appears that, at least until now, the electronic submission of pleadings has not been exploited and in general, digital technology has not been introduced in the field of justice awarding. In all judicial services in the country there are more than two thousand organic gaps, with the number increasing, given the retirement departures. These gaps concern in particular the specialities of the secretarial and the curriculum sector. However, the few, but particularly useful positions of the IT industry remain vacant for most of them despite the competitions that have been opened for them since 2017. Here, Minister, emphasis needs to be given. We all understand that the introduction of technology and the recruitment of people of experts in this area will significantly reduce the number of cases. Why? Because we know that the main problem of justice today is the slowness in its award. We need the recruitment of employees. But the introduction of the new technology also needs to be done. It has to go further. The pandemic and the long suspension of the functioning of the courts has obviously also led to the accumulation of extra volumes of cases. The reopening of the Courts requires the immediate implementation of a plan of protection of the interests of all judges and officials and of the parties and of the public. The draft indicates the specific nature of the judicial officers, which is already recorded in Article 92 of the Constitution, which reserves them special treatment, which is primarily identified in the Staff Regulations and in the composition of the Boards. The rest the editorial legislator leaves them with the ordinary legislator. The consultation has shown that as regards the status of judicial officers, the main issue is the harmonisation of provisions applicable to civil service staff, service development, grading structure, evaluation, mobility to other services, objective qualification mobilisation, and criteria and conditions for selecting heads. The positive features of the bill are the resolution of the issue of the permanentisation of civil servants of private law indefinitely, the process of evaluation of officials and heads and the provision of training for judges. Minister, you are claiming that you have achieved harmonisation with the Civil Service Code where this is legitimate and feasible. However, we cannot understand why there are still some omissions and differences. Integration into mobility and transfers, with a project of course adapted to the specificities and requirements of the orderly functioning of justice at the same time as there are things that are very differently regulated, such as the selection of heads, which has been the subject of many comments. I understand the opposing views that may exist between old and experienced officials and younger people, who are generally more typical. A rational weighting is required here that does not leave any suspicion of irrationality. You tried this weighting to do it with the legislative improvements you've brought us late. The spindle, however, is still aging. I think it is extremely problematic for secondary school officials in 2021 to be able to take up a manager's position.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u72	We'll do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u73	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u74	I mean, in the direction...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u75	I am pleased to hear that because this is not happening anywhere in the public sector and it is extremely problematic that it should be at the expense of people with multiannual studies. This is done essentially with an evaluation of the degrees, with the invention of a mandatory seminar with highly moleculosis and an interview that is also accompanied by a high moleculation. You will allow me again to point out the question of the fact that interviews, but also oral examinations, in the case of officials carrying out documentary and subsidiary work, must be public, Minister. This guarantee of publicity is extremely important. I wasn't heard when I said it about civil servants. But we have to understand that once. In the Citizens’ Counselor, when we ourselves hired our staff, we did so by public interviews, where everyone could attend. It is fabulous to hear the interviews that the Council of State had conducted in the oral examinations, when it invited the candidates to the Committee. The oral interview was of great importance. There was a big audience. It was a real ritual. I insist that it is a matter of fundamental transparency. The new code attempts to create two new sectors and two hundred and forty-nine new jobs in total, which come to meet needs. I want to congratulate you on the new Jurisdiction and Documentation Branch. Those who fear that there is a chance that these young scientists can substantiate the judge in his work are making a great mistake. It's an experience tested in foreign courts. They are famous for the Clerks at the Supreme Court of the United States, the Superme Court, where people who are currently at the top of legal science in America have served. It is considered a great honor to serve as a Clerk in the Superme Court. I would therefore like to urge that the examinations be carried out very strictly and at a high level. There is a high-level world that can no longer be absorbed by the law. It is a first-class opportunity to help the courts to upgrade their work, their case-law and provide a worthwhile and dignified way out to people with qualifications who are now outside the labour market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u76	Thank you. I should like to invite the New Democracy MP, Mr Athanasio Ljupi. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the administration of justice in our country is at a high level thanks to its human resources, the prosecutors, the judges and the judicial officers who serve in all branches and levels of justice. It was a great challenge and it was the acceleration in the administration of justice. In this direction, the government and the Ministry have taken decisive steps. First, on infrastructure level, construction of new buildings and reconstruction of old buildings. At this point I would like again, Minister, to thank you for your positive attitude from the outset to the question of building the new Volos Judicial Palace. Secondly, it is important that the initiatives already taken for the transition to the digital age in the area of justice by digitising the systems, recording practices for the first time at the criminal hearings, electronic disclosure of judgments to parties and lawyers, extending the application of electronic documentary evidence with a digital signature. Thirdly, it is important to strengthen the courts with human resources, by increasing the organic positions, judges and prosecutors and by recruiting two hundred and fifty judges pending and new recruitments. And finally, the upgrading of services and the acceleration that includes both education and training of all the parties involved, judiciary officers and officials. Today's bill was discussed sufficiently at the Commissioners' stage. He received positive impressions on the part of the bodies, while comments were received from the bodies and the Opposition which were incorporated by the Minister. In this general consensus climate, the Civic Opposition and the Change Movement vote the bill at first. The Code of Judiciary shall be updated and updated so that the level of services provided meets the needs of the officials and contributors of justice. The recognition of doctoral and postgraduate degrees is also extended to judicial staff. Accordingly, with regard to civil servants in general, the requirement to appoint a very good foreign language and adequacy of computer knowledge is also introduced to judicial staff. Staff training is provided, and sometimes even compulsory, while continuing training and postgraduate education is given importance. Very important is the system of assessment for judges. The implementation of the objective and merited assessment in the public sector, as you all know, is a priority of the government. The evaluation is carried out at three levels: firstly, knowledge of the subject, secondly, attitudes towards colleagues and the public and thirdly, efficiency. Each judiciary is assessed by two assessors, and for the first time the heads are evaluated by their subordinates in line with international standards. A mandatory part of the evaluation is also an interview with the assessor, in order to identify elements of his or her personality and character, which are not reflected in the official's formal and statistical data, but are equally important to illustrate the staff member's overall image. Section of the bill 'introduction of meritful and transparent procedures into the selection of heads', which is for the first time made by a moleculation system. The question is resolved with the judicial officers working under a private contract of employment. They can be judged for simulation after two years of work. Generally speaking, the great innovation of today's legislative initiative is the addition of two new branches of judicial officers, who come to meet immediate needs in the efficient functioning of the courts. In particular, the new IT and judicial assistance branch is an excellent initiative in European and other advanced countries' standards. It will work helpfully in the work of judges and prosecutors, at the level of legal search and a first elementary processing of cases. No involvement in the role and judicial judgment of the judge does have in this new institution. On the contrary. It respects the important work of the judge in need of scientific support. Following the modern requirements for exploiting the technological means of communication, important as the new branch of judicial officers of the IP, judicial communication and international relations. Finally, two words about the amendment of the Ministry of Labour tabled by the Minister of Labour. It implements its commitment to solving the chronic problem in the delay in the awarding of pensions. The e-ECA partnership with certified professionals is a courageous and decisive move that will bring about a significant improvement in the huge pension allocation times. Today's bill makes major contributions to the field of judicial officers. The organization of the courts still has a lot of scope to improve. Digitalisation in the field of justice must be speeded up. Intensification of the effort to grant digital signatures to lawyers throughout the territory is necessary in order to effectively dismantle the courts from the physical testimony of the pleadings. At the heart of all reforms is independently strong justice, a concept that is unnegotiable for the functioning of the civil society. In addition, democracy is safe at Pythagoras, only when justice is square, in all parts equal and identical. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, too, for the consistency in time. According to a decision of the Conference of Presidents, when there are amendments to legislation other than that of the Ministry, Parliamentary Groups have the right to appoint one - either a member or a qualified MEP - to defend certain issues. On the basis of this decision of the Conference of Presidents, Mr Kegeroglu has the floor from the Change Movement. Mrs Eleftheriadou will be followed. Here you go, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u79	Mr President, thank you. In particular, I would like to refer to the amendments. I would, of course, like to inform the House at the outset, and we also know that in the Conference of Presidents we have raised the issue of the bad and irregular procedure, which is put to the vote amendments which have more than one article. In many cases, while there is agreement in many of these articles because of the disagreement on some or even at one time, we are not given the opportunity to vote in favour of an amendment. We have asked the Bureau of Parliament to settle the matter in such a way that the articles of the amendments are put to the vote and not the amendments to the whole. It's too basic for us. In this respect, we have an amendment from the Ministry of the Interior which has almost all the positive articles except an article which has a problem for us. We would vote on them if they were put to a separate vote. The amendment by the Ministry of Defence concerning the extension of the programme for the completion of the two torpedoes. It is of course the long time that this issue has come to Parliament because the work has not been completed. There is an agreement from 2016 that the Navy pays 70% of the workers' wages to continue their work, and the body must pay the remaining 30%, that is, the Elefsis shipyards. It's something that can't keep going. We need to find a solution. It is of course also in line with the question of completing the process of refining the yards, which has an end date. Therefore, the Government must help to deal with the problem in relation to the restructuring of the Elefsina shipyard, which must submit a dossier to 106, and at the same time ensure that the workers are paid. This is an obligation of the Ministries. I believe that we are doing well to approve this amendment, which includes other articles with which we incidentally agree with everything. We are therefore voting for the amendment by the Ministry of Defence, but that is not the case with all the amendments. Now let's go see another amendment. That is the amendment of the Ministry of Labour. With the amendment, the Ministry of Labour is introducing a new way of dealing with the problem of issuing outstanding pensions. Of course, it also includes other articles with some of which we have an agreement. That is to say, the arrangements it makes for the issue of pensions which candidate pensioners must either be OGAs or they are OGAs or we are professionals of the EMFF, despite the fact that the amounts involved in the scheme are small and will not serve all those who are required. It's problematic because he's gonna leave some people out again. But as a step we say yes, what is going on is good. But I come to what I said, which is also Article 1, which gives the message of the amendment, that it is changing the nature of the insurance here. There is no cooperation between the public sector and the private sector within a partnership, rules, transparency and guarantees. The private sector is substituting the public sector. It doesn't go to be certified, does it go to be whatever it is? Substituting's done. Because not all of their actions are controlled, it is simple. ‘Summary of control 5%’. No, that's not it. In a public partnership with a private sector we have so far known that everything is controlled and supervised by a principle. That doesn't exist. So it's a system's main disadvantage. But here is a history. Many times it becomes specs by SYRIZA, but above all by you that "you know, we have a huge problem with the extradition of pensions that existed before". I have to say that in 2012 the outstanding pensions were not more than eighty-five thousand, but what was it? That they hadn't been pending for a long time. The average time of issuing pensions was one and a half years, eighteen months at that time. And most importantly, 50% of them were receiving a temporary pension. So this has evolved slowly and arrived in 2017, which we have a specific valuation, to be about a hundred and fifty-five thousand to sixty thousand of the outstanding pensions. I do not know whether it was included in the last quarter because it is relevant, depending on the definition, what applications are not considered outstanding, which have been made in the last three months. In August 2019 this figure was about eighty-nine thousand, had been launched. If we exclude a good year that was in 2018, which actually worked on the system and slightly reduced the number of existing pensions, all the other years were totally unacceptable. Of course I have to say that last year we have passed the negative record of the previous government, unfortunately. Here, then, there is this issue and it is a joy that Mr Hatzidakis here is here to answer us: there has been a reform of the EVA by the SYRIZA government. A further reform has been made by Mr Brutsis with the e-ECA. By studying it, I have already given it to you and will be tabling it in the Minutes of the House, it was my omission that I did not submit it, I believe that this reform is temporary. I worked on it scientifically in the framework of the postgraduate - I consider it very important - and I propose solutions. How the subsequent reform of the e-ECA will be completed and will have the results that we all want in both benefits and insurance, and in the process, and in time. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It was therefore foreseen with Mr Brutsi's work that the digitisation of insurance would be completed and that, on the basis of this completion with the pressing of a button, the pension will come out. That's right! But in practice this did not work. "ATLAS" collapsed because it was not supported, because there was not that process that would support him to deliver what he intended to make. So this is the one, that there was no assessment of why ‘ATLAS’ collapsed, in order to change these elements, remove the obstacles and in practice complete the reform. So Mr. Hatzidakis comes and without his name saying that “the “ATLAS” failed” by Mr. Brutsis “and I bring the “TALO”””. It's the mythical hero of Crete, the iron. This is Mr Hatzidakis because of the Cretan origin, but also because I think the project manager is also from Crete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u80	And the nail.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u81	Well done. The "DALOS", which appears and is presented as the protection hero, will solve the problem that "ATLAS" has not solved, unfortunately it hangs not by a thread, but by a nail. What I predict is that the "DALOS" will indeed collapse from the removal of the nail that is in front of us light light. He won't be able to walk the system. In our view, it has no guarantee of success. In this sense, I think that, because of both Article 1 and another article, although this amendment also has two positive articles which we support - I have referred to them - I do not know whether you were, Minister here - because of the procedure that exists, we are placed with 'yes', 'no', etc. on the articles, we will not be taking part in the voting process. But this has to do with the way it is imported. Yesterday I contacted the President of Parliament, Mr Tasoula, and asked him to finally change this system and to put the parts of the amendments to the vote so that there could be an authentic expression of the will of each party and of every Member of Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, too. I would like to clarify, because as Mr Kegeroglu spoke, I was called by various groups, that I explained in the clearest terms this procedure with Mr Kegeroglu. They have the right to all parties when there is a specialised topic to send out of the MEP's list, who may be a sectoral or a very good knowledge of the subject being discussed. The speaker of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mrs Sultana Eleftheriad has the floor. Immediately afterwards, the Minister will take the floor, Mr. Petsas.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, in the midst of a pandemic, the New Democracy Government kept the courts closed with thirty-nine C.E.s of the weekend, as we lawyers say, because it was a leg legislature, bad and contradictory that created chaos in justice, legal insecurity, a surprise for the factors of the trial and of course compromised the rights of citizens. Let me tell you, for example, that many documents have not been lodged and deadlines have been lost because in many first instances the lawyer does not accept to go in person, but they have to be submitted by electronic signature, which the state has not taken care of all lawyers. That's what you need to see. You must set a deadline for reopening some procedures and deadlines. At the same time, you have completely ignored the survival of the lawyers, who you really left without any substantial aid, even though they had no object. For example, in Kavala, as far as criminal matters are concerned, 95% of these were not made and, in political matters, half of them were not. The same situation prevails almost throughout Greece and has really brought my colleagues into economic impoverishment. Finally, for lawyers: you are mobilizing the necessary schedule for their vaccination, despite the fact that they are at the forefront of one of the necessary functions of the state and especially now that you will open the courts, so that you can implement the Police Code because the Commission has ordered you to take the homes of the citizens, I think you should see the issue of the primary vaccination of lawyers in order to be able to defend their customers. As far as the functioning of the courts and judges is concerned, the problems of judicial officers are years and years. It's the sub-delegation of the courts with continuous retirement. The ratio now to judicial officers in relation to judges is in Greece 1: 3, while in Europe it is the opposite 3: 1. It is work with particularly difficult conditions in poorly maintained buildings without adequate technical support and with reduced use of new technologies and is also their unfair wage treatment in particular with regard to overtime. We know that they are being forced to come and stay in the courts for too many hours when there are self-sufficient or interrogations, and while you know that too, you have reduced expenditure on overtime to one third. Instead of solving, first of all, the question of subscribing to judicial staff in all courts, you are experimenting with the setting up of new branches, such as the IT and assistance industry. You bring two and twenty-six new organic positions, despite the fact that the Areos Ice, the Ice Arrow's Plenary Assembly unanimously gave a negative opinion on the existence of this industry because the work assigned to them is the subject of the judges. The Union of Judges and Prosecutors has pointed out the same to you. The Scientific Committee of the Parliament also points out to you in its report on legal insecurity for both judges and judges. You have today brought an amendment to the post-Maximum Night and you are changing the conditions for the appointment of a commander at the beginning of a few days before Mrs Zaire's term of office expires. Until now commander at first could only be a senior prosecutor in active employment chosen by a decision of the Supreme Judicial Council. Now what are you doing? You give the possibility - obviously it's photographic, the order, obviously you have someone in your mind - to be commander and retired judiciary officer. How will you choose him? He will be chosen by the Minister of Justice with the Minister of Finance and with the agreement of the Committee on Institutions and Transparency, which, of course, you can, because you have most members in the committee, choose who you want, that is to say, a governmental choice, the commander of a authority that must be independent. This, in conjunction with Law No 4637/2019 on the lifting of dirty money laundering provisions that you have prompted to bring and which has already created a decommissioned, for example, the property of Mr Laurentis Laurentiades has been released in accordance with this law that you have brought, creates many reasonable questions, Minister, reasonable questions that have called on you to reply so much to our rapporteur - and you have not answered yet, I hope you will explain to us your speech, explain your choice to bring this amendment -, reasonable questions that the Union of Judges and Prosecutors is always addressing you if you have not heard of the withdrawal of the amendment because he says - self-determination - ‘it should be given a definitive end to the logic of fellow-agreements of state power that always harms the validity of the only judicial authority’. That is what the Union of Judges and Prosecutors tells you today. Of course, your Government's representative today who was asked was ignorant of this amendment, that she is not aware of it. To go through Mr Hatzidakis' amendment, to tell him many years ago, to congratulate him on the cake as well, it was excellent. Mr Hatzidakis' amendment, with which lawyers and accountants will enter the ECA and make pensions, except that it is unconstitutional and, of course, very serious issues arise from the possibility of having access to and processing personal data, does not solve the problem. It will be double costs for employees for pension awards, as they will be required within 30 days to check the provisional or final pension plan to be delivered to them by the certified accountant or lawyer, and this will not be a sample check. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. The subjectmatter of the pension is complex. Even the lawyers, the ones who can deal with and know the object, are counted on their fingers. In Kavala, in a city where we have hundreds of lawyers, those who know the subject very well and can take that responsibility are two to three lawyers. This is also the percentage in Athens. So it's not enough for a simple seminar to get into the FBI and make pensions. I say this because your regulation is a trap for my colleagues. You don't say who's gonna pay them, how much he's gonna pay them and when he's gonna pay them. Why should I tell you that in the case of successive insurance or pension with a foreign insurance institution's measurement the time for the drafting and adoption of the plan is over one year. When will lawyers and accountants be paid and by whom of course? However, it is a trap because you charge them the sums wrongly paid, if there is negligence - I am not talking about fraud, no one is going to show fraud in such a case - in the event of payment of wrongly paid pensions. This is certainly not the case for ECA officials. They have no responsibility, but for the lawyers and accountants who will come to make a cut, to do the public's work, there will be a great risk that they will be charged with huge sums of money. Of course, it does not specify which management body will investigate the degree of fault of the lawyer and the accountant. Therefore, the only solution to speed up the provision of pensions, the issue of pensions, is the recruitment of permanent staff to deal with outstanding pensions, which have actually been set at the height of the New Republic's governance. It is obvious that you have no idea, Minister, how the courts work, that Mr. Hadjidakis has no idea how the ECA works. The two amendments, the two infamous today's amendments, should be taken back, and permanent staff should be recruited both to the courts and to the ECA. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mrs. Eleftheriadou. It is now up to the Deputy Minister, Mr Petsas, to place himself on the amendment under a general number of 860 and a specialist of 52. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u85	I would like to support Amendment 860/52 from the 20-4-2021 which has five articles. The first article relates to the extension of the TA I budget. As you know from Article 160 of the Municipalities and Communities Code, the budget is closed at the end of March 2021 for 2020. However, some municipalities, even because of the pandemic, could not have closed their budget until 31-3-2021 and therefore it is necessary to extend for two months until 31-5-2021. With Article 2, we have the arrangement for the mechanism to prevent the accumulation of late payments to third parties by the local authorities. Article 107 of Law 4714/2020 provides that in April the LGBs are obliged to deposit to the Deposit and Loan Fund all their outstanding liabilities until 31 March of this year. Because for the first time we have managed to reduce the amount of the municipalities below EUR 100,000 in 2020, and because we are going to move in the next time in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance in a EUR 70,000, 000, we are suspending this provision in order to implement it in the second half as a time limit for the municipalities to pay off their dues after the new programme by 30-6-2021. With regard to Article 3, we are talking about the first degree of locality fees, namely, the 5% rate imposed on amusement centres and generally on rooms with music and drink. This is in line with the 0.5% rate, which applies to the other charges, in other markets of health interest. It is obvious that, because of the pandemic, the revenues of these sites have collapsed. It is also an opportunity to harmonise this end for two years, setting a minimum payment of EUR 3 000 per annum for each such kind of entertainment centre to the municipality. At the end of this period, we will assess the performance of this measure and this intervention and, if it is considered satisfactory, we will do so permanently. Otherwise, we'll return to category 5% that's been in place so far. With Article 4, we have the solution of JHA joint ventures and of non-resident companies n.e.c. 410/1995. The arrangement establishes the possibility of payment of sums already seized by the Greek State and the insurance institutions by the co-responsible persons with the company in liquidation and is included in the decision to accept the company’s debt from the municipality concerned. In addition, in order to ensure the financial resolution of the TBRs, account shall also be taken of the obligations to the Greek State, the insurance funds and to third parties of all types of companies which the TBRs or their legal persons have set up or to which they and their legal persons participate, provided that third parties are taken into account for the purpose of implementing the arrangement only the percentage of the participation of TBRs or of their legal persons. Finally, with Article 5, Mr President, we need the timely implementation of the political actions required for the fight against fire protection of the municipalities in the run-up to the new anti-nuclear period. This preparation makes it absolutely essential to regulate the extension and, for the year 2021, to provide direct appropriations from the central independent resources of the municipalities in the municipalities’ associations to cover exclusively fire protection actions. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Minister. Here, Mr. Heta, what do you want to ask the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u87	Two comments and we would like the Minister's comment. In your amendment, Minister, we have identified two points, which we would like to clarify, because they have not hit us well, to tell the truth. You didn't mention it. Now I don't know if you forgot or did it for purpose. The revenue from the companies you mentioned - and I am referring to Article 3 now - even the casinos are inside. How can we vote on casinos? Should we be sorry for them already? Also, in Article 4 for the debts of public enterprises and JHA and others, can it be stated here that the members of the municipal council are not criminally prosecuted for the debt as referred to in the previous subparagraph? So, who's gonna pay for these? Who's responsible for this? It's two questions we have. In fact, we would like your comment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u88	It's understood, Mr. Heta. Minister Petsas has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Mr President. As far as the second is concerned, the municipality's debt has already been taken over. It's not something that's weird. In order to avoid this problem with the members who represented before the boards of directors of these companies now resolved, this issue is resolved. As far as Article 3 is concerned, there has been no change in the existing provision but harmonisation of 5% to 0.5% with the minimum amount of payment. And that is what you are saying, which is more permanent, we will of course see it again.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u90	The floor is now for SYRIZA MEP - a Progressive Alliance Mr Miltiades Hatzigiannakis. Immediately after the speech, the Minister of Labour, Mr. Hatzidakis, will be given. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u91	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, it happened and my turn came when you proposed the amendment. Because of the authority, I mean. More generally, we are positive about this amendment and with Article 1 and Article 2. They must be voted in favour. You're doing well and you're bringing them in. In particular, I should like to say the following about Article 2. Do you know when you will bring in the settlement of outstanding debts? And I have also the question in what form it will be - because last time your Government had legislated with the previous Minister, Mr Theodorikos - whether this system will be in place, 60% - 40%, or if all of the 70 million you have told us are to be paid, the municipalities will be given or they will have to take part with the CAP retention, as Mr Theodorikos had previously borne in September. In Article 3, I did not understand it as you answered it. More generally, we understand that this is a very difficult period for revenue to be reduced. In this sense we are positive for 2022 and 2021 for the reduction of the fee and consider it afterwards. We don't think it's negative. Is casinos the same rate as that? Doesn't it change anything from the previous one, or do you just reduce it to 2% rather than 0.5%? Let's just see this because I didn't understand it in your answer. And generally, because we have seen from the report by the General Accounting Office of the State that there is a loss of the municipalities apparently by the reduction of the fee, have you calculated it? Can we cover it? Because you understand that the economics of the municipalities are in a tragic situation, such as most of them, and public, of course, but also private businesses. For Article 4, the solution of the public benefits and JHA, anyway, since the transitional period of KALIKARAT in 2011 and 2012, there was a number of legislative provisions that provided such a possibility, because there was a problem in particular of the payment of insurance contributions. So we're not negative on that. What Mr. Hetas asked you, is: Have you detected persecutions on the part of the municipality for remuneration? Because if you've spotted, we're not negative. We understand that, when a municipal council accepts the debts of its own municipal company and, above all, for the insurance funds and public funds, this was allowed anyway, but if you do so for clarification, we are not negative. But let me get this straight. Obviously, in Article 5 we agree. I think that all we have as a reservation is for casinos, to answer whether you are reducing it or not, and on what grounds it is also being reduced for casinos. And above all, answer us whether there is any possibility of covering the losses, whether you have calculated the losses or what we have seen from the General Accounting Office of the State by the OTA, and whether you will somehow cover them, especially for the two years that will be difficult for OTAs. And 2021 will be very difficult. It's obvious. I have no further issues with regard to the amendment. Because here I also have the status of lawyer and man who grew up a little bit in the courts. Minister, you have also seen from the whole process, from what we have seen - we have not been able to monitor by living, but we have retrospectively followed the whole consultation and all the attitude that has been taken, I think, most of the counterpopulation. There has been a good debate, because we understand that these are issues which need to be resolved. However, in fact - I think most of our colleagues in the opposition have told you before - a problem that we are facing and to which it does not seem to be a solution is really the problem of subscribing. For years now, in particular, we lawyers have heard that there has been a problem in the administration of justice, in the speed of decision-making and in their implementation. In fact, anyone who is, by the way, involved in justice and in the decision-making process understands that the problem of subsistence, especially in the province, but also in Athens and in Hope, if we go, is enormous in the appeal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u92	In Hope is the biggest.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u93	It's huge. It's really huge. You know, and I'm glad you've spotted it. It's not just building. Almost all of our colleagues have said so. I honestly talk to you if I take you to the Cyme Peace Court, you're ashamed to come in. Not if you're a lawyer, if you're anyone, you're ashamed to come in. The plasters are dropping. There's no toilets. And I imagine, this picture of peacecourts is all over Greece. Sadly, within the memorial tombs something was done with no sense in my appreciation. Because at that time we had reacted very much to the closure of too many peacekeepers, regardless of what they offered. For example, at that time, we had a performance to the then Minister of Justice, Mr Rupakiotis, on the closure of the Skyros Peace Court, which had no sense in excluding the Memorandum Requirements - supposedly - for savings. He had a permanent employee, a private building had, a new building and a renovated. And finally, it closed to have to travel islanders from too many islands at a time. You can understand what that means to both the economy and the citizens' direct service. I think you should see these issues. Without the recruitment of staff, permanent staff, in the courts, without the assistance of all judicial officials, there can be no administration of justice, such as the one we want. You need to see it. The codes are good. All procedures are good, but they do not solve the problem at all. We need to solve this and not turn around, around the same problems, which we have been hearing for over ten years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, too, for the consistency in time. Mr. Petchas has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u95	Three points as quick answers. On the issue of 2% for casinos, because Mr Heitas said it before and now also Mr Hatzigiannakis, it is expressly stated that it remains for casinos to be 2%, as was the case. It wasn't 5% for casinos. That is why the provision is repeated. If you see the fifth paragraph of the provision, it remains at 2%, as it was. It doesn't go to 0.5%. He stays where he was for casinos. As far as the issue of TAA operations is concerned, yes, there have been confiscations to persons. For this reason, we are going through this procedure, because there is no reason to assume the debt from the municipality concerned, and there is no need to continue the confiscation on the face of the head of a municipal body. On the subject of the new regulation, we are considering being a little more generous in order to have an incentive to the municipalities, to pay back in time and yet by 30 June all their due obligations. That's why we're moving on to this brave funding again. We will see exactly the percentage in the ministerial decision that will follow in a few days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Minister. The Minister for Labour, Mr Hatzidakis, has the floor to place him on the amendment under a general number 865 and a special number 54. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr President, I will need a little more time because the amendment, regardless of how it is put to it, is of greater interest. I would like to say, therefore, by starting that Mr Kegeroglu, who spoke just before me, on behalf of the Change Movement, was right that the problem of unfinished pensions was not in the past or was not in the area that exists today. The truth is - and I beg everyone to rub your memory - that in 2000, 2005, even in 2010 and 2015 the problem was much less. Mr. Kegerolgos said two figures, he said eighty-five thousand outstanding pensions in 2012 and eighty-nine thousand in 2019. What happened between 2012 and 2019? What happened was the frugal merger of the EFKA, in principle, something that could be said to be wrong, but it was done without any plan, without any prospect, leading to the software getting involved, the former funds being involved, the employees getting involved and, at the end, the pensioners who saw - and see - their pensions awarded without delay or with some less delay in the past being awarded from 2016 onwards with all the problems that we are observing today. Our insurance system was never perfect, nor the insurance institutions. EFKA is the successor, among others, of the former IKA, the former TEBE, etc. I don't think we all have the best memories of these funds. But, as you know, apart from evil, there's the worst. With SYRIZA, then, there was this great "success" and we arrived, when the change took place in the summer of 2019, the SYRIZA Government handed over to the Government of New Democracy a total of one million and fifty thousand outstanding insurance cases, not only pensions, but allowances, retrospectively outstanding, widow's pensions, etc. The attempt by the Government of New Democracy, then with Minister Giannis Vroutzis, began to address the issue. In 2020, the pensions granted were 31% more than in 2019. Measured data and non-disputable data. Is the matter solved? We are not SYRIZA, to claim that everything has been solved over our days and to make black white. We directly say that this is obviously a big issue, it has not been solved and we are trying, not with great words, but with a plan to deal with this issue. What have we done and what do we do? Before I went to the ministry, it had gone through a setup, so that the EFCA employees working on pensions and working extra, making more pensions, get extra allowances. And this is under way and going on. Also, before I went to the ministry, it was decided - and it went on - that some ECA contractors who had been there for years, to the ECA, who have been working to a great extent on the issue of pensions now. Besides, it was decided, and in a few days this would take flesh and bone, get a thousand seven hundred computers to the FBI. I laugh bitterly because, while it became the modernist - supposedly, the merger of the ECA, the computers that exist in the ECA are Windows 2000, completely outdated technology. In each branch there is essentially one computer connected to the central system, the employee with the responsibility, and this computer photocopies and shares the photocopies to his other colleagues in order to get the pensions out or to deal with other issues of the insured. This is the situation that we have received and which we are facing. Computers will start to settle in May. And we'll probably have to order more computers so that the organization changes speeds. In addition, we move through APA the recruitment of a hundred new contract economists, who will be hired under project contracts and paid per pension they make, so that they have an incentive to make more pensions to help them as well. In addition, the recruitment of a hundred ECA pensioners, recently retired, who too will deal with this issue. Because according to the latest evidence provided by EFKA, a hundred and fifty-five thousand pensions were in January. Now it's a hundred and thirty-nine. Our aim, of course, is for pensions to fall, to be regulated in a way that is appropriate to a modern European state. So in the context of this more general effort we are making and for which I would like to inform both the House and the Greeks and the Greeks, we are now moving on to tabling this amendment which we are debating and which has seven very specific regulations which I would like to share with you. I will be a little further with the certified lawyers and accountants who have caused the interest of the Chamber. The first regulation is the extension of the institution of the pre-retirement certificate to all the former funds, including the OGA, but also to successive insurance. In successive insurance, we make the pre-retirement certificate compulsory since the start of the certificated register to co-operate with the pension application, because successive insurance is a major problem facing the ECA every day. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Mr President, I warned you that I would need some more time. The second thing we do is that we resolve with this amendment the issue of time of insurance in the OGA questioned by the OAU for insured persons before 2017. It's a number of amazing cases. It's a story about possible cases of EKA. I have handled various issues from time to time, I thought - and I have publicly said - that the worst thing was OSE than I've ever handled, but far the biggest problem is the OLAF. Time is therefore recognised as a legitimate perpetrator in the OGA, whenever it was recorded, so that there are no doubts that freeze the award in this category of insured persons. The third arrangement we're bringing is about the time of insurance for civil servants. In this respect, therefore, we are legally equipped with the so-called 'DPRK', it is the personal and service-based card of civil servants, even if it has not been issued electronically, so that the insurance period resulting from it does not need to be recalculated after the application for retirement, as was the case up until now. The fourth regulation concerns an issue that has been raised more widely by many interested parties than by the media. We are talking about calculating the debts to the former funds, which is also a protagonist of award. This issue needs to be addressed in order to proceed with retirement. Here we simplify the method of calculating them by setting a limit of EUR 20,000, including surcharges and others, for all funds other than the GAAP which remains at EUR 6 000. What's going on here? To make it simpler. He told you the public that to get a pension, you shouldn't owe more than 20,000, but he didn't say it uniform as we call it now. He said “14,000 debts and 6,000 increments”, so that the regulation is not flexible and that a number of people remain, as the two elements were calculated separately, which were not retired. While with the arrangements we now bring, they will be retired. The fifth regulation concerns the rapid liquidation of pension applications and the attempt to resolve the outstanding even before the application for a pension. Here we are limiting the deadline for submitting the documents to the EMCDDA in one month from the time when you are making your application for pension and not in six months as it was until today. Because you realize that if the retired person wants to get a pension quickly, he must also quickly submit the documents. We all need to contribute to this effort. I think it's an arrangement that everyone - I suppose - will agree. Before I go to the certified accountants and lawyers, we also have a regulation that makes temporary pension compulsory. It's a very important arrangement. He's not stressed maybe as much as he should be. Temporary pensions are a relatively significant percentage. It is depending on the former fund, 50% of the salary you would receive in 2011 or 70% of the pension you will normally receive, etc. Today less than a third of the insured are receiving a temporary pension. Be careful, I am not talking about the advance payments of national pensions that we have made and which will be paid next week along with retrospectives. I'm not talking about what's a measure, too, we got it. I am talking about temporary retirement, which was most optional. It made it compulsory for the pensioner to quickly get a sum which would allow him to live with the greatest dignity allowed by the temporary pension. So I think there's no doubt that it's a measure in favour of the retired person. I should like to end by making the presentation of the amendment on the issue at issue, namely the question of certified professionals. It's something that's been introduced for the first time in Greece. He was responsible for the engineers of town planning who draw certificates to the position of town planners. In 2011, PASOK introduced it, Mr Katrin. And I didn't see any government from those who ruled in, including the government of SYRIZA, abolish this measure. There is the measure on tax certificates in respect of taxes. The government of Papademos introduced it. I did not see any government abolishing it from those who subsequently ruled. The accountants who make the tax certificates. So what do we say here? We say it is unacceptable that there should be so many unfinished pensions in Greece of 2021 and we put all the weapons in the fight. Officials are lawful, contract staff are being recruited, we are getting new computers, we modernise the ECA, we are obviously moving on to digital pensions. But to end an hour ago, we're talking about putting in battle and certified accountants and lawyers. After all, it is a common secret - we all live in Greece - that many accountants or lawyers, not officially but unofficially, have been acting helpfully so far to retired people, without having the right to sign in order to get their pension. Well, what was done from the window is very simply done by the door with only one benefiting pensioners themselves and as a decisive blow to bureaucracy. Why should we say no? What's the problem? How does the measure apply? I have heard a SYRIZA's colleague say that we will have a problem with our personal data. In addition to any provisions in the amendment on personal data, let us look at it in common, there is the prediction that from the register of certified lawyers and accountants who will have trained for this work the retired person will go alone, the insured person and choose whom he or who he or she wants. So from the time he chooses him himself and trusts him himself, what is, really, the subject of personal data? He's just giving him the authority to see his file. The lawyer or the accountant is not going to open the file against the will of any insured person. There's another objection I heard this morning on a channel. The OCLAF officials, he says, will be forced to agree on something that they themselves have no involvement in. However, it is clear in the amendment that officials who issue pension awards, chiefly or subsidiary or singlely, on the basis of the drawings and attestations of accountants and lawyers, have no responsibility for registrations and indications of transactions due to errors in attestations. So there's no responsibility for the employees. Who's in charge? Accountants and lawyers will be responsible themselves. And the amendment stipulates that sampling will be carried out at least 5% of the acts adopted, and then, if errors are detected, there will be punishment, there will be 'cabbage', whether in cases of negligence or gross negligence. In the second case, of course, the penalties will be considerably stricter. So this issue is also addressed. So I cannot understand what the objections made by the opposition are. We are talking about a new idea that comes to be added to the weapons we are using to speed up the issue of pensions. There will be certified accountants and lawyers, especially trained for this, who will be chosen by the insured person himself, who will be able to do a series of basic acts that are currently being carried out by the ECAA, such as finding the time of insurance in respect of debts, issuing pre-retirements and a temporary and final pension plan and which - because I have heard this - will be compensated by the ECA and not by the retired person, depending on the difficulty of the act. So that's the regulation. Of course, because I have been in politics for some years now, I am not surprised in Greece. I expect to hear the most amazing things in the context of the political dialogue. The government did not want any "bravos" or "accuse" by SYRIZA for the wonderful achievement of the EKKA merger, but, if anything, to recognise the self-evident. It is a small revolution to regulate the participation of certified lawyers and accountants. It is certainly a solution outside the box, but it will work. You say to me: 'And why don't you hire officials?' Firstly, I told you that we were hiring and, secondly, our issue is now. We do not have an issue that will last - alas - five, ten or thirty years. So now that we have a big problem, we have to put all the weapons into battle, deal with lawyers and accountants, deviate the issue and deal with it. That's what logic says. Or not? So I really want to ask this: what is the reason - apart from an obscene Opposition that says 'no to everything' - that you deny and even defeat this regulation? Think about you and the Greek citizens with whom you are finally! Are you with the retired people who want to get their pension an hour earlier, regardless of who makes the pension, or are you with the red tape monster? Are your ideas so strong and your despair towards the government so great that it doesn't allow you to see self-evident? All you do is expose yourself. It is your right to do so. I will not protect your party credibility. We know that we have a big problem to deal with and we are determined to deal with it with new ideas and simple logic. And that's how we're gonna move on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u99	Mr President, I want the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u100	Let go, Mr. Ragossi. I'll set up a procedure, so we'll all be okay. Don't raise my hand. I know the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u101	I would just like to ask questions, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u102	Please! You're letting me speak or I don't have the right? The procedure is as follows: On the position of the Minister, only the reason for this amendment can be taken for two minutes by the rapporteurs and the parliamentary representatives, those who wish to ask for clarification. The rest of you will do it on your locations. The rapporteurs and the special speakers will do so during their dentistry. Clearer, in other words, I can't be. On this occasion, I would like to say, because I think you have asked me to speak on your speech, Mr Ragosi, here on a regular basis, the parliamentary representatives are here, asking for the floor and setting an hour. Mr Katrinis has been here since the morning, or at least from the twelve I have taken over, he has asked me, because there is a reason to speak at about three or about that hour, because that is not always the case. So, from these questions, yours, the answers of the Minister, Mr. Hatzidakis, Mr. Katrinis will take the floor. I can't make it clearer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u103	Mr President, could I ask you something?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u104	Would you like something, Mr. Blondopoulos?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u105	Mr President, when will the speeches of the rapporteurs be made?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u106	The seconds will be done at the end, after all the prototypes. So, Mr Ragosi, you have the floor for two minutes for the clarifications you want from the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, Mr President. It is right for the President, Mr Hatzidakis, that what we have to say about this amendment, we will see about it during the intervention we are going to take, because I must tell you that what you have done today on a subject so important for so many hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens and their families, will pass in history as one of the most extreme examples of a cowardice. So you are bringing an amendment here. You spoke twenty-three full minutes - you made a whole suggestion, which I do not know if Mr Tsiaras will do about his bill - to introduce a whole legislative initiative, according to your political views and according to where you want to go things. And you brought it in the form of an amendment, without any social consultation or consultation with anyone else, without giving Greece, the Greek party system, the Greek society, to discuss and see what it will do with this very serious problem. Secondly, it is not enough, Mr Hatzidakis, that you have come in this way to introduce a whole bill, but you have also chosen the path of provocative - provocative - effort to make the alchemist. You said about outstanding pension data and when you arrived by 2019, you said about 2019 with 2020 and converted it into percentages. Mr Hatzidakis, at the moment you know better than me and obviously from most of us in here that it is about four hundred thousand - others say four hundred thousand - outstanding pensions, gentlemen, subsidiary and one-off. You have spoken so much about this major problem, when you received this figure - as the Chief of Staff has often mentioned, and by the responsible SYRIZA department - Progressive Alliance - at a much lower level than that of the hundred twenty, thirty thousand for the main pensions about the election period. In other words, you have come here with an amendment, you have on your back the problem of over four hundred thousand outstanding pensions, and you are not coming clean, frankly, to say 'that is the problem, but we have told you, we have done more than three hundred and see what you are proposing. I'm not going to comment on it. Questions now on what you are proposing. How much will the method you introduce into the state budget, namely Greek and Greek taxpayers, Mr Hatzidakis? What's the cost? Clipboards, numerical calculations raise costs. What I have looked at in the amendment, if I am not mistaken, is that you have not even allowed the General Accounting Office to do a valuation, because you have deliberately left it at this general level. You try to fish in blurred waters. Manual numerical calculations indicate, they are approaching tens of millions of euros this total cost, at the time you are told by all sides that what you are doing is unconstitutional and instead of bringing the solution, it will bring worse to the problem. And it will get worse, Mr Hatzidakis, because what you are actually trying is something that cannot go hand in hand either with the administration, neither with the Constitution nor with the interests of the pensioners themselves. If there's anything left of this whole story, do you know what it is? You know what you're putting, who's the seed you're putting through this proposal that you're making? Unfortunately, the seed that exists anyway, but outside of pensions, from this pension system, that is to say, the seed for the 'globe', for the oil and for the misagent. That's where you can get out of the civilian. Exterior to a logic...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u108	Lawyers...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u109	I'm not talking about lawyers, Mr. Plearis. I'm talking about the logic of the system. Every system, Mr. Hatzidakis, has its logic, has its engineering. So a system that has been handled to date exclusively by the Greek State, you are actually abstracting it, inviting precisely this morbid logic.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u110	Finish, Mr. Ragossi. That's what we said next, in your place. Just clarifying questions on a subject. We've already been in five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u111	One last thing, Mr President. Apart from the logic of privatization that one can have, to suggest to this very serious issue, there is, Mr Hatzidakis, another concept, the concept of public interest, the concept of social interest. So you are now legislating under the logic of'share-sharing', in fact, without prejudice to what your legislation will cause, to the detriment of the public interest, to the detriment of the social interest.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u112	The rapporteur has asked for the floor on the side of SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance, Mr Xanthopoulou. Then he is Mr. Katrinis as Parliamentary spokesman for the Change Movement, Mr. Hetas...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u113	After Mr. Katrin, I'm the one talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u114	You didn't understand me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u115	I heard everything.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u116	Would you like to ask a question - clarification? After Mr Katrin has the floor, Mr Pafilis will have the floor to ask the Minister for questions - clarifications.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u117	No, to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u118	You didn't hear it all. You can now take the floor only if you have some questions about what the Minister of Labour has said. Your speeches will be held then and there you will be. After Mr. Pafile, Mr. Hetas will have the floor from the Greek Solution as a special speaker. Mr. Blondopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u119	Minister, I will be very brief. As far as I am concerned, any institutional initiative to have a chance of success must meet the consent of those with whom it is coming to cooperate. Do you have a picture of the decision of the plenary session of the presidents of the legal clubs? And if so, in the appeal to the nominee paragraph that tells you to withdraw and accept the positions of the body on the responsibility of lawyers and the procedure, what do you intend to do? You can give us the necessary explanations. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, Mr Xanthopoulou, for this very short position, which is indeed in the context of the question - clarification. Mr Katrin, you have the floor for clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u121	Very soon, Mr President. Today we learned from Mr. Hatzidakis that it was wrong to unify the funds in 2011, that it was done in a rough way or badly and we also learned from Mr. Hatzidakis, Mr. President, that in Greece the digital modernisation of Mr. Mitsotakis and Mr. Pierrakakis have been operating with Windows 2000 programmes for the past twenty-one months, for the past five months that we have been voting for an amendment to a derogation for the purchase of computers informs us that it will perhaps buy them next month. And of course, for all the solution is to grant private accountants and lawyers. First of all, Minister, because in the Public Procurement Bill the Government has used the same argument, it has nothing to do with the 2011 PASOK Government decision that enabled private engineers to sign for a building licence with what you are doing now, as well as with what Mr Georgiadis and Mr Karamanlis have done, allowing the persons controlled to choose their auditors rather than the public. It has nothing to do with it. Do not invoke it as an argument. They're extremely unfortunate. But I want to ask something. Do you have the courage to confess today before the National Representation that the Government of New Democracy twenty-one months failed fully what it had planned on the issue of the award of pensions? Yes or no? We were listening to Mr Brutsi, who said that he was bringing the 'ATLAS' system, which since 1 January 2021 would pay 60% with a 'click'. We saw you after finding the solution to the pension advance for thirty thousand and I hope you will return it next week, as you have said. And today you say that "ATLAS" didn't work, twenty-one months did nothing, despite the fact that you say that you gave 30% more than last year and go to private individuals. Do you have that courage? Secondly, if in a hypothetical case, Minister, as you describe them, does the system work quickly and after a short period of time lawyers, accountants, and present the suggestions and arrive in June, July, 2021, to have all the proposals toward EVKA, do you have the money to give the pensions that will be calculated by all those individuals you are putting today? Because the logic of such a provision is that "I want speed" and very well everyone is doing and want speed. So I say to you this: there is now a delay, and you know that especially to subsidiary and one-off ones there is a delay that is beyond what is justified by bureaucracy, it is a matter of budget. Do you have the money? Thirdly, do you think that the 5% sample check is sufficient in a system in which pensions will be paid? Some may also use it as an incentive to make quick and good pensions. With 5% of the sample check, do you think that this check is sufficient to ensure that there is no smuggling of public funds and that you bring it here with such certainty that it will work perfectly and that pensions are given quickly without any question? I think, Minister, that you should also put more security controls, but you should not underestimate the work done in the EVC with whatever delays and, above all, - that is your issue - not cancel your own election announcements and what you have done twenty-one months as a government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u122	Mr Pafilis has the floor as a parliamentary representative of the Communist Party of Greece in order to ask the Minister questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u123	I'll ask four questions without making any comments. I'll start backwards. Mr. Hatzidakis, why don't you hire the fired, the persecuted ones who got fired and who know the job instead of being privatized? Because that's the way it is. That's the one question. Secondly, you say that you are making temporary retirement compulsory. Can you tell us what amounts we're talking about, what will the pensioner get? Tell us about it. Arithmetics. 360 euros? You live with 360 euros? You don't live. How old are the pensions? A grand? If they do, it'll be 500. Do you live with 500 euros and with obligations toward children and grandchildren? That question, answer her. Let's go down. You're saying it's temporary intervention. Now we want to solve it. And where does this come from, that it won't be permanent? Does the amendment say anything about a bill? For by the way, what the government is doing today is having two - three separate bills, or rather the six amendments are six bills. Even more. You tell us later about good legalization and that we'll stop more of this. Regardless of that, I move on to the question. Does the bill say that it will be abolished? After how long? Or the road opens for privatization. And finally, one question. When you promised pensions in three months, didn't you know? Are you kidding us now? Didn't you know what the situation is? You, with your election program, said that in three months all pensions with systems will come out and with one another, and you still haven't got a computer. Didn't you know that? Why are you coming now and telling us that this will solve the pension problem? Ultimately, this is where we live. He pays big offices. You're telling us about certificates and certifications. Of course, there may also be the ordinary lawyers who will fight and have little luck, get rid of the job and go get some pensions. We are talking about giants, big business here. What do you think, that they will shorten and make pensions with what EFKA will give them? And I don't blame anyone, so it's your market. Who are you working for? He'll pay out of his pocket, the retired person, so he can quickly get his pension. Don't you know that? You only know what to say?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, Mr. Paphie. We're finishing with Mr. Heta from the Greek Solution. Mr. Heta, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u125	Mr President, thank you. Mr. Hatzidakis, first of all, many years. Be strong, long. We saw your political palladder and your successes imprinted on the sugar pasta the other day, any success you've achieved. If, Mr President, today I would like to put a title on 'Superman in new adventures'. Let me ask you something, Mr. Hatzidakis. You're talking about revolution. Since when do revolutions fit into an amendment? You have drowned the revolution in the amendment. You also said, Mr Hatzidakis, that our pensioners will be able to live with dignity with compulsory pension. Mr. Pafilis said so too. If you can live with 500, 400, 360 euros, tell us the secret because we don't go out with these numbers. People don't come out. Let's go down. It is really unacceptable, Minister, that we should be informed by the media, by the printed and electronic press, of what articles your amendment contains, which is a regular bill, which should have been put into consultation, which concerns so many people and last night is officially submitted to Parliament. What can we do and what can we see? I would like to ask you something, since the President wants us to ask questions. Does the state, Mr. Hatzidakis, always have, yes or no? Yes, he came after SYRIZA, New Democracy, and they said the state has been constantly on a number of issues. Does the Party State of New Democracy keep up, Mr. Hatzidakis? You presented the fireworks system to us and tried to get us to vote on it at night. You also voted for the 'ATLAS' system. We voted against it to be clear. We have voted not in principle on the draft law on 'ATLANTA'. But you who voted for it and got some pensions out, now what do you come and change? I don't understand. So, every Minister coming brings his topic? This also applies to the Minister of the Interior, Mr Voridis, this also applies to you. Does the New Democracy have a programme? Does he have an ideology? It has something I believe, which says that 'we're going to solve these problems, right'? It's not a matter of every minister. Let's go down. Do you know, Mr. Hatzidakis, that for the first time retired people will pay out of their pockets to retire? Question. Who are you, the Minister of Labour, who will be burdening Greek women and Greeks, the state budget of around 80m euros to pay certified lawyers and tax officers, without having presented us with the report from the General Accounting Office of the State, without having spoken in the bill about how much this will cost? Yeah, we'll pay. Are you going to pay? From your pocket? People will pay again. You don't even have one approach where this money will be found. Question. Hatzidakis will be gone sometime after two or three years of being out of this position. We're hoping sooner. Whenever you want, you'll leave. Another minister will be here, Palis will be here. Hetas will be here. Another one's coming. Where will he find these files with such dispersal of cases that there will be right and left? These documents will be removed from the state inside, from the state machine. Another priest and others, Mr. Hatzidakis! Question. Three years I've been waiting for my pension. I'm a poor poor guy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u126	Finish it, Mr. Heta. Question directly.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u127	I shall conclude, Mr President. What I'm saying is essential. Three years I've been waiting. And there comes a third person here, who a month ago retired, who has the money, has the acquaintances, he goes to the good office and gets his pension in one day. So where poor and the fate of Mr Hatzidakis! We would expect at least today, if not the pensioners, the Greeks and the Greeks here, to respect your colleague, Mr. Tsiara, who is legislating here today, bringing a bill here and joining us "weddling" you to make a revolution of pounds through an amendment, because you do not have the political courage and courage to bring a bill here and confront ourselves. You do it in secret, you do it as you have learned. Keep writing your palm. Next year, the cake has more hits on it. Happy birthday again!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u128	Following the position of the Minister, Mr. Hatzidakis, the parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, Mr. Katrinis, will take the floor. Then a colleague, Mr Aylonite, will speak. Immediately afterwards, the Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Pafilis, will speak. The last speaker in a natural presence is Mr Maravegias. The SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative will then speak - a Progressive Alliance, Mr Raguss. At the request of the other parliamentary representatives, they will be given the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u129	I'm going to need some time for the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u130	Minister, if you ask the floor in between, you can take him. Since it has not been requested so far, I have said the order that exists so far. You are the Minister, and you have the right to intervene either by a short time or by the whole of them whenever you want. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u131	Mr President, I have not seen a single opposition party say at least that it will vote 'present' for this amendment. I would like to thank you from my heart for choosing to go with bureaucracy and giving us the retired and the insured. Thank you very much. I'm grateful to you! The whole government is grateful to you. What amendment are you against? In the amendment that says that there will be certified accountants and lawyers who will make a number of decisions, including temporary and final pension plans. For such plans and attestations, the amendment, drafting and registering certified professionals, producing full proof of the evidence contained therein, shall be made within 30 days of the submission of the draft provisional or final master or subsidiary. The pension decision shall be adopted within 30 days of the submission of the draft decision. On the expiry of that period, the draft shall be deemed to be approved and shall be the responsibility of an act awarding a pension posted in the civil personal office at the single digital portal of the public administration. In this measure, you're across the street. In order to unblock pensions, so that we do not have so many thousands of outstanding pensions - I am referring to the main ones - I can then refer to the subsidiary and all other issues - let us use another weapon which has been used so far from the window and without significant results, and now we are using it properly, as I have pointed out in my prototype, with transparency and, above all, with efficiency and speed for pensioners. Indeed, it is wonder how you decided to turn around along with the monster of bureaucracy and leave us all the field!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u132	You did it. I mean, mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u133	Thank you very much. What I'm going to do is answer all the questions from colleagues, because it's really interesting, I imagine, and for the world watching us hear the answers. Does Mr Ragus say, representing SYRIZA: Was there a consultation? Of course, there was also the lawyers who support it - another colleague then told them - whether you read the position of the lawyers or not, I think Mr Xanthopoulou - and the Chamber of Economics and I also spoke to the federation of the workers in the EFKA, and I explained to them that I do not understand what their objection is when it is a measure which will relieve them of the great burden they have, because other hands will be put into battle. They proclaimed, as they were entitled, and I respect it, strike. They made a two-day strike. Participation in the strike was 18% on the first day and 15% on the second day, because obviously the ECA officials do not share these concerns, because they know very well that they will simply be reduced in their daily lives. Anti-constitutionalism. Why is it unconstitutional? Because it was said by Mr Katrin and Mr Ragosi earlier that the method used previously was different, namely that the engineers choose the state while the insured person chooses here. Oh, no? Is that why it's unconstitutional? For the fact that the Greek citizen, who is at the heart of the protection of the Constitution - that is why we have voted for the Constitution to protect the rights of citizens - we give him the opportunity to choose a lawyer or an accountant to get his pension sooner? Is that the great unconstitutionality? You read the Constitution very nicely. Question: You referred to the number of main pensions. Yes, I referred to the number of main pensions and compared, sir. I said it was a hundred and eighty-nine thousand in the summer of 2019 and it's a hundred thirty-nine today. Of course, there's a one-off...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u134	How much?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u135	I'll tell you. ...and outstanding supplementary pensions, except for most of them on SYRIZA days. Overall, all of this together - I have said it many times, it is no new element - it is nearly three hundred thousand. It was much more over your days. That is why, because it is a big deal, I once again say that we are seeking to solve it. The question was raised: How much will it cost the public? That is what Mr Ragus said. Mr. Hetas said the retired people would pay for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u136	No, the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u137	Since both may not apply, I would inform you that point 7(b) states that the flat-rate amount of compensation paid by the Office for each of the work, the conditions and the method of payment, etc. is fixed by common decision of the Ministers for Finance and Labour. So, Mr. Heta, the insured and the contractors don't pay. It's done by the FBI. And I will be forgiven by Mr Raguss to say that I do not feel that the people who are being watched will be very sympathetic to your speech when you ask the question how much it will cost the public. But no matter how expensive it is, it is worth doing just to do what Mr Pafilis said at some point take their retirement on an elementally decent level. What do you want in his name that will cost the government something to leave them with zero? Is that your social sensitivity? Is that what you want? Is this the socially sensitive opposition we have to face, that we are trying to give pensions in the name of your ideas and your empathy, do you want not to give and leave people unharmed? Is this the progressive opposition of Greece? I'm on it. I told the lawyers we've spoken. There is a communication from the Plenary Assembly of the Bar Associations, which, in principle, agrees with what we are saying and remains to discuss with them obviously also the details of the ministerial decision. The same is true of the Chamber of Economics. For computers, Mr. Katrin, a procedure had been initiated by my predecessor, Yannis Brutsis. You're criticising us, because we're taking computers now, when we found the problem, and we ordered them. You forgot to look a little at this side and say that it was a government that merged EVA and stayed since it merged him three and a half years into power. Why didn't you ask them three and a half years, which was why they didn't take the computers and wait for us to come to power? It was said if we had money to pay for the pensions. Of course, we have to pay, but I don't know if PASOK is suggesting that we don't pay pensions out of fear of not finding the money. If you suggest that, explain it to the Greek citizens.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u138	If you say no, it works for me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u139	I have also heard a criticism from PASOK, which is to blame for the bureaucracy in PASOK, that we will have a break-up of public funds, that accountants and lawyers will eat if they make assurances which are not accurate, that these people will smash public money. All of this is described in very specific terms within the law. We provide for at least 5% sample checks and, in any case, for you to know that precisely because the penalties are strict, ask lawyers who consider them to be too strict.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u140	That's why they're protesting.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u141	That's right. Because the penalties are severe, there is no doubt that people will do their job properly. However, even if they do not, there are mechanisms for full state compensation by the accredited accountants or lawyers themselves and on the basis of the mechanisms which are unduly paid. I'm going to Mr. Paphie, who said why we don't get the contractors who ended their contract. We already got, they were permanently permanently around a hundred and fifty, a hundred seventy, if I remember well, contracted by Giannis Vroutzis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u142	How many of them?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u143	There was a permanentization of what is thought to be necessary. I told you, we also get contracted new ones separately and retired recently. I would stress once again that we now have a very big problem. We would not need so many hands to work on this issue after five years, after ten years, after thirty years, to take people who will be paid for by the Greek taxpayer. Now we need solutions, and that is why we now find this method with certified accountants and lawyers, beyond the rest. He asks, what is the level of temporary pensions? What it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u144	Say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u145	It is depending on the fund, 50%, 70% or 80% of the last salary or normal pension. But, Mr Pafile, what's the difference? The difference is that, as today is not compulsory for temporary retirement, it only takes one third of people and the others take zero. Question about the JRC very simple, you because you want - and I want - the pensions to be even bigger, because at the moment they are not even higher pensions, do you prefer people to get zero?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u146	How much can you tell us?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u147	I mean, if you had any to vote on this modulation...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u148	Leave the dilemmas.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u149	...which makes temporary retirement compulsory, would you vote against it?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u150	Don't interrupt, Mr. Paphie. Your objections to your position.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u151	I asked a question. How many are there? Can you tell us the numbers?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u152	Another question by Mr Palhei: when will the measure be abolished? But it will be abolished on its own when the matter is dealt with. Now, in fact, we need people, so we can get on with this loose end. We support the 'ATLAS' system and move on gradually. Started with some of the OGA's pensions, it's about to proceed with disability pensions. When the system is completed, all this will be done automatically and self-evidently, neither will lawyers nor accountants. Because this is going to be digital. Another remark and I'm ending with Mr. Palphie. "He who pays," he says. First of all, it's not true, because the FBI will pay. But, let's see, does the "payer" stand today? Are you defending the present system, which actually works in favour of those who have a little more money in their pocket to pay for their pensions, unofficially, lawyers and accountants to make it easier for them to get their pensions? I'm not saying they're gonna do something illegal. On the contrary, we are establishing a transparent process, a rapid process, with money from the FBI. And you will allow me to say that it is no coincidence that the large legal offices - we listen to them on television, you listen to them too - are not very enthusiastic about this regulation. And you know why it's not? Because it stops the oligopoly. Because now the market is opening and why every certified lawyer and every certified accountant in Athens, Orestiada, Crete, everywhere, will be able to deal with this issue. Because at some point we need to speak completely openly. Mr. Heta's questions have already been answered. I have nothing to add, except to keep the minutes of today's sitting, not just to remember them, but to show them to you after a few months. After the catastrophe you have done today, after all you said that the measure will not work and after defending the bureaucracy that you have done horizontally within this Chamber, I will keep the Minutes to tell you that this government has boldly, boldly and boldly taken a solution to a social problem and the so-called philosophical opposition took part in bureaucracy. You with red tape, we with the insured.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u153	Thank you, Minister. We are now entering the normal course of action, where they have so far called for the floor, apart from the parliamentary representatives I have mentioned and said the procedure, and Mrs Apatzides from Mera25 and Mr Ploris from New Democracy, of course. Before giving the floor to Mr Katrin, the Minister for Justice, Mr. Tsiaras, has the floor for a short while.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u154	Thank you, Mr President. I have asked for the floor to be tabled as soon as possible. I'll summarize them in summary. Of course, I will also table the legislative improvements to the amendment tabled by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. So I say, in order to keep in mind the honourable rapporteurs and special speakers of the parties, that the legislative improvements beyond the verbal improvements contain some of the proposals which were put forward yesterday and the day before the debate in the relevant parliamentary committee. First, we incorporate the phrase in the article relating to the documentation industry ‘under the responsibility and control of judicial officers’. Secondly, we harmonise the wording of the code articles with the legislation in force for people with disabilities. Thirdly, the administrative staff who resigned should be returned to the elections immediately after the end of their term of office. Fourthly, the moleculation of the interview in the text of the Legislative Committee was two hundred molecules and was reduced to a hundred molecules. Fifthly, the transfer of a court official within the court shall be decided by the court’s administration after agreement of the Head of the Registry of the Court. And that, because the latter is the one with the full picture of each employee. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANASIOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Sixth, the possibility of ICUs being removed - it was a proposal, I think, of all parties - becoming head of management, as is the case in the Staff Code, except in the small case where we may be faced with, no IP or TE category candidates. Only in this case is it stated that there are some small non-judiciary formations which may be examined under this light. This is to be in the knowledge of honourable Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u155	The parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, Mr Katrinis, now has the floor. Mr. Catarini, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u156	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday we confirmed what the Greek society, public opinion, has believed for a long time and, indeed, it has been reflected in the latest polls, that the government has decided on measures in the middle of a pandemic, and the Committee on Infectious Substances simply validates them and approves them. We saw the Prime Minister announcing the opening of the focus on 3 May yesterday and in fear of public opinion's reactions to curbing movements in Easter on 3 May. However, for the first time, we have seen an announcement of an activity without specific terms and conditions being announced on how to open it up. We're just saying it's going to open up, so we can lower the protests a little. The people of the focus expect to see under what conditions the focus will open, with what working capital. As regards what the government promised on 1 April as a support measure for professionals in the first time to have money to supply the necessary things, they should be able to slowly find a pace after six months that are closed, and any communication, whatever plan, is missing. We saw the Prime Minister announcing movements between the regions on 15 May, the day after the opening of tourism. And, of course, this is neither innocent nor accidental, because it is confirmed that decisions are taken only on the basis of opinion polls and public discontent. Why was the question raised in the House and outside this Chamber reasonable: How can a stranger come uninvasive with a test seventy-two hours ago in our country and cannot one Greek, especially those who have been vaccinated, go from one county to another? How do different measures apply? Obviously, both the government and the Prime Minister understood it and announced that 15 May was opening the move between regions. Of course, since I referred to tourism, I would say that tourism professionals are still waiting for the special aid measure that they would also be able to reboot on better conditions. Unless for the Government tourism is only large accommodations, only those which provide all inclusive services. I will not comment on the self test fiasco and the second cancellation of the contest. It is indicative, I think, of the sloppiness with which many things are announced to create impressions in a purely communication strategy of the government, but they are too late to be implemented, with all the problems that this entails for everyday life. We have heard the Prime Minister today in an attempt to bring about a communal reversal of the climate of fatigue, unpleasant of the continuing lockdown that does not provide, to announce tax relief measures. Positive that it reduces the advance tax rate of 80% for businesses and 55% for natural persons engaged in business. Positive! We believe that this should be at least to the extent of last year's decline, with a proportionate reduction and not a reduction, while the economy has actually not found its pace today. Positive and the extension of the suspension of a special solidarity contribution and the reduction of three units of insurance contributions. You're reducing the taxation of legal persons. You did it last year. I do not know if there is any evaluation of this measure. Last year you said, of course, before pandemic, that by reducing you will be able to achieve more revenue. But what's the reality? The reality of both natural persons and businesses in the country is that the outstanding debts have increased by 7 billion in 2020 and 1.6 billion in the first two months of 2021. I would like to point out, by commenting on the Prime Minister's announcements today, that according to the last report by the Governor of the Bank of Greece, the tax competitiveness index of Tax Foundation, which examines over forty variables of tax policy, Greece ranks twenty-nine among thirty-six countries, exactly in the same position as in 2019. In practice, there is no progress in the tax policy measures that favour competition and it is obviously in favour of lower incomes. In fact, it is worth mentioning that in the indexes of Tax Foundation, where we show the worst performance, namely in the indicators of taxation on real estate, we have no announcement and no improvement from the government. This seems to me to indicate that there are fragmentary movements which do not favour the lower income layers and obviously do not favour the vast majority of Greek society. Because, at the moment, beyond the deadline, private debt has reached 240 billion and is growing despite the efforts of the Finance Minister to assure the contrary. I say this, in order to link it to the bill of the Ministry of Justice, in which we, Minister, have made it clear that we are positive in principle, to every initiative aimed at resolving the malfunctions that have occurred in recent years by all the bodies of the Ministry of Justice, judges, lawyers and judicial officers. Obviously, the common place is to speed up the administration of justice. It is a shortfall in the country's time, an effort is being made, and we think it could be even better. You have included it in the lines of the proposal from the Recovery Fund. Our rapporteur, Mrs Nadia Giannakopoulou, has, I think, set the framework for our own proposals and objections and fears, not to create two speeds and, at some point, to serve the vacant posts of judges. This needs to be done, along with the new institution of the assistant judge who can contribute, but there should also be differences of dignity and transparency. I would, however, like to remain in the article of the amendment you tabled and to link it to the previous one I said about private debt and No.3869, a law that your Government has done anything to degrade it. It is the law for highly indebted households, also known as the "Katelis Law", the law of the PASOK Governments. So do what you can degrade him. In the midst of a pandemic, you sent people to go and collect supporting documents from banks, taxes, insurance funds. We asked you, we made an intervention, we protested, you gave only 15 days. Although we wanted applications to be much less, ultimately everyone who had a right and more entered the platform. That's the first. Mr Staikoras spoke yesterday about Law 3869, which the New Democracy voted for. Others, if, after his law a little while ago, Mr Hatzidakis, Mr. 4161 - here we speak with evidence - the New Democracy gave the right with a simple request to take first home protection without having a court ruling. That's where the batters, whom you are now all characterized as the beneficiaries of the n. 3869. So there is the question of protecting first residence. I have once again asked you, Minister, whether you will be on suspension of auctions beyond 1 June. Apart from a provision that says that the auctions are suspended until 16 July. In essence, the suspension shall be referred to 1 October. A provision came yesterday that says that in the event of naturality the Minister of Finance can make a decision and suspend auctions. Is this the government's policy to suspend first home auctions for really weak borrowers? And I say this because based on the Bank of Greece's figures, only 20% is described as a strategic bad payer. So the eight out of ten are really weak borrowers. What are you doing for them with the application of the bankruptcy code? You're delivering them, literally, to the mercy of the servicers. What do the services say? Two hundred and fifty thousand properties will be auctioned in the next five years in the country. So here one and one do two. What do you want the public and the public to say that I wish to become a natural disaster in the country, and I hope the Minister of Finance will sign a decision to suspend first home auctions? Advanced elements of an Independent Public Revenue Authority. 1,29 million debtors have been charged with seizures of wages and bank accounts. Four millions of forty thousand taxpayers have open tax accounts. And what do you say to them? Children, auctions open up and if you have to pay - in these circumstances, with this economy and with these working conditions very difficult - it is well, if you do not, you have lost your home. He put a bet before the Minister of Labour. The same bet was put on his predecessor, Mr. Brutsis, when he talked to us about the reform of "ATLANTA", when he burgled his clothes that on January 1, 2021, 60% of the pensions would be assigned to a "click". He left by saying that "I bet you and I will invoke the Minutes", to see how much he will pay off his measure. A good thing, first of all, has been said by our rapporteur, and the speakers have said that it is going up to the limit of debts above which some people cannot regulate and get the pension, as is especially the case with farmers. A large part that they are not able to retire at the moment is farmers and farmers, but professionals. It should be bigger. It is good that this is going up and we think it can give a solution. However, ladies and gentlemen, for the first time in the history of the country, and for the first time in the history of social security, individuals are introduced into the work of issuing pensions. This government can be a permanent selection of outsourcing and may the Minister think that it poses dilemmas, that the insured are not interested, anyway, who will give them the pension if he is private or public, but he did not respond before what the government did about it for twenty-one months and all these election announcements to speed up performance and digital performance. He did not tell us why the OAS workers were reduced and, of course, they did not increase, because seven hundred contractors and the OAS programmes were made redundant, while they had a pre-service and offered and did not seek to extend and stay, in order to provide solutions. Today, there are about three hundred thousand key subsidiary and one single subsidiary. The Minister of Genoa, who took over, said that the solution would be the advance payment of the pension, and the truth suggests that with the limitations and the 'cuts' only thirty thousand people would be able to get this pension from the three hundred thousand. Of course, instead of strengthening the institution of digital pensions, which, if the government believed it, could produce results and indeed end the bureaucracy, end the suffering, it is common goal for everyone to give pensions quickly and not just the retrospective, but also the new ones and the remaining ones, what did the government do? It says that the government now, children, I have failed in this too, we are going to private individuals to pay a pension, because everything I have said so far has failed for twenty-one months. Of course, and the Minister knows that - and the government knows - many people on the market will be saying - 'Come to us because we are making it quick and good pensions' and conditions will be created for unfair competition between those who are able to resort to private individuals and not just formal or peculiar to give them the case, but also, in fact, to motivate them to get it out quickly and quickly and at a good level, and those who cannot afford to pay will wait for their turn. However, this line, with the government's choice, is abolished. While they were all aware that there was a strict time priority on the basis of the submission order, this government is now abolishing it on the basis of the possibility of being sent to private offices. Let the government not make fun of public opinion. We know very well that it will not only be the pay from the FBI the incentive for private, lawyer and economists to go ahead with the process. A government that says it has a plan, that it is perfect, today brings the computer transfer for 15 May, because obviously it has not done any assessment at higher institutions or has no design, except some case-by-case approaches, as we experience it in Elia with the University of Patras, to propose abolition of departments. We ask: is there being an evaluation? We wait, he says. The government is still waiting today for the departments' suggestions. I conclude with the amendment from the Ministry of National Defence. We in every provision that enables workers to continue working, we are positive. We've said it. Of course, this does not cancel the fact that the government obviously no longer has a strategy for the shipbuilding industry. And we say this because both in the case of the Skaramaga shipyards, which Mr Mitsotakis himself has said that there is a reliable investor who will soon come to give a solution to the problem of the shipyards, and in the second competition we have had a much lower price than the minimum, indicative of the lack of preparation - we are talking about an amendment which gives an eighth extension after thirteen years for the delivery of the two rapid patrols directed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u157	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u158	I shall also take my dentistry, Mr President, and I shall conclude. We will vote for each extension, because we think that the shipyards should also stay alive, but at some point the government should tell us if it has a strategy. And we say that because the workers are the ones who always pay the price. Let us see what happens at Elefsina Shipyards, since I referred to the Scaramaga shipyards. We all know that the time to achieve the resolution plan ends in September 2021 for debts of more than four hundred million euros. Is there a resolution plan? Does the government have a resolution plan? Do the creditors agree to that? When will this resolution plan be submitted by the investor at last and agreed by the creditors and of course the government has agreed in accordance with Article 106? It is heard that this delay is related to the issue of the awarding of new wells and upgrading the existing wells. The government must therefore make it clear what it will do on defence procurement issues and whether the resolution plan is going to go ahead. If no resolution plan is reached at Salamis Shipyards by September 1921, then the shares will be returned to the former owner who is also accidentally the one who led the shipyards to this situation. There is therefore a civil and criminal dimension of a case of the loss of hundreds of millions of euros for the Greek State and a company listed on the stock exchange for which the Securities and Exchange Committee should - I think - exercise better control. Will the government go to a model of stateisation and debt capitalisation by creditors? Is it - I ask directly - the government intending to give the debts to the man who created them? Or will it proceed and go to special liquidation after the resolution plan is completed? What about the workers' entrepreneurs? What about the public debts? I fear that as in many other policy areas, as in the shipbuilding industry, as shown by the Elefsinas Shipyards and the Skaramaga Shipyards, the government does not have a dubious plan, the government does not care at all about the future of the workers. And that is why, despite the great declarations, promises and declarations from the respective ministers, little has been done and I fear that if he does not wake up in time, we will have very bad developments in the shipbuilding sector in a very sensitive period for our national issues and we all understand why this should not be allowed to happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u159	Thank you, too, Mr. Catarini. Let me remind the Members of Parliament that if the time of dentistry is cleared, it will not be given any time after that. Mr Alexandros Aylonite has the floor from SYRIZA. The parliamentary representative of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Pafilis, has then asked for the floor. Here, Mr. Aylonite, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u160	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a Member of Parliament must be very patient in order to speak. But we've been equipped. Minister, I honestly wonder if this ironic attitude Mr Hatzidakis has it as an inherited gift or is it acquired? Acquisition is certain that it has supernatural powers such as superman to solve many problems in political life, as solved the problem of Olympic, PPC. If I took part in an event for my birthday, this cake somewhere I would throw it away - not to say it because I would stumble - and be forgiven by Mr Hatzidakis. Don't iron the SYRIZA MPs and, in general, the Opposition. It's a shame what he's doing. It's a disgrace. Instead of coming here to say that we have, gentlemen, failed in the area of pensions, received a hundred thousand outstanding pensions, brought them to the three hundred thousand, we have failed and asked for the help of Parliament to recruit staff, to finish, to clean up the issue, it does not say so. It looks good, it throws responsibilities on SYRIZA, it throws responsibilities anywhere other than going to say a word or answer the question. A while ago the previous Minister of Labour didn't say they were going to press a button? Mr. Katrinis said so. Does this government have any responsibility for this situation in the ECA? But let me leave it there, because I will waste my time in relation to the speech I have to make on this bill and I would like your tolerance, Mr President. Mr. Minister of Justice, I was very impressed and I was following my colleague, Mrs. Eleftheriadou Sultana, who asked you a question and I will submit it to you directly. Law 4557/2018, paragraph 5 of Article 47 said that the President of the Anti-Counterfeiting Authority by Criminal Actions comes from the body of active prosecutors. You today put a diagnosing "or". Or by those who currently operate in justice as prosecutors or by honor. I am therefore asking you: why are you broadening this framework? Haven't you been reached by the current prosecutors, get a prosecutor in active employment, put him in presidentship to this independent authority? We want answers in particular. Are you thinking of something? Do you have anyone else you want to put in this position? Tell us. It's good, isn't it? I come to this debate. And I would like to refer to the question of how this House works. We MPs will have forgotten our status as the House operates all this time and with teleconferencing. The Prime Minister opens the economy. Not a single word has been said about how the procedures of a pillar of our democracy that is the House will be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u161	That's an internal matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u162	Internal theme, but I say it so that we all can hear it. Is that right? Because we have a reason for this, the elected Members who unfortunately deprive us of it. I want to comment very quickly. I read the minutes of this committee which discussed this bill. The majority rapporteur, Mr Tsavdaridis, - missing - has again thrown a spiral, that is to say, the crime of corruption has been declassified by the SYRIZA government from a felony to flood and bribery, otherwise we and you have it to the extent of a felony. You Minister - and I look to you in the eye - you are a Minister of Justice - you were unable to investigate that from 2013 to 2017 that this committee was set up, which is made up of scientists, lawyers, there was a similar provision from then scientists until the vote in July 2019 of the Criminal Code so as to declassify the crime...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u163	Are you defending it?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u164	Say it, why don't you tell the House and hide it. But on the contrary, Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u165	..................................................................................................................................................................... (Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u166	If you're kind, Minister, don't interrupt me. On the contrary, you have legislated on the irresistibleness of those who have taken down the banks. That's what you stayed at, and that's what you always do, Mr. Chiara.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u167	Is that what you're defending?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u168	I wanted you as head of the Justice Department to say that. The bill now. We are voting for a code, Minister. We do not call it bronze, but another procedure has to be followed. This is how you sign it "Code of Judiciary". The debate is spreading, as in a simple bill. I'm saying this so you don't say we don't know. It is the raw reality provided by our Constitution and by the Rules of Procedure of Parliament, but unfortunately or fortunately we are following the ordinary legislative procedure, even for the sake of legislating. But you know very well, Mr. Chiara, and I've said that before, I'm a lawyer. Justice is deeply ill. We are dealing with genuine subscribing or decommissioning, which many of my colleagues have told me, of the support of the courts by judges. That's obvious. There are no people behind the offices. But you will tell me that today we are discussing a code, and you are looking into triumphs. But you haven't lived the everyday life of the courts. We are not opposed to the philosophy of the code. My colleague and fellow student, Mr Xanthopoulou, has analysed the whole matter with an insight into what the SYRIZA government had done about this problem we are voting on today. However, I wish to emphasise the staff of our courts by officials and secretaries. There is no correlation between a judge and a secretary with a party, a secretary or the Court of Appeal of Corfu, who is one of the largest courts, to serve a hundred and forty-five employees and to have three hundred fifty judges. However, the fact is that in your bill two new branches of officials are institutionalised as a great reform, but reality is far from being a beauty. We are talking about documentation and assistance officials in the judicial work. Who will say as an idea this is not a good idea? I loved, reading the committee's minutes, an example of the former SYRIZA's colleague and partner Spiros Lappa. He said: That the prediction of such employees reminds him of a house without a house where the plasters fall, dismantle the coatings, and we order furniture for the living room, instead of building the roof, stabilise the foundations and pillars that support the construction of justice. I agree with that, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u169	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u170	Which colleague told me earlier about a peacekeeping court that's about to fall? We are talking so seriously about issues in this way between pandemic and you say that this event will solve the chronicling problems of justice. No, I don't believe that. However, I will conclude by saying that justice wants its codes, but it also wants people to serve it properly and as our civilisation requires. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u171	Thank you. To make just one comment in view of the fact that during the period mentioned, I happened to be a Minister of Justice, only for information. In 2014, defects of state officials and judges became felonies. See, if you want, Articles 159 and 245 of the Criminal Code. We made a felony then. I'm just saying this for information.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u172	Only I spoke to him, Mr President, with a document that was published...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u173	I can explain, therefore, that these were abused in Article 159 and 235 in 2014. Parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Athanasios Pafilis, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u174	Thank you. Mr. Hatzidakis is gone, but I guess they'll let him know. The people say to us: 'The thief cries to be afraid of the housekeeper'. That's what Mr. Hatzidakis did here. Who's the thief here and who's the housekeeper? Who, really? What governments probably overrun the insurance funds from 1950 to 1881? Atoms were the money from the blood and sweat of the workers in ETVA that financed the Bodossakis, the Chats and all the "pillars" of the economy. A naughty one. Who went to the stock market - and there is no one here from PASOK - the fund reserves and billions lost? Wasn't your governments? We're the only ones who disagreed. Who did the PSI - so I'm saying that you're the thieves of the workers' sweat all the governments - who stole billions and generations' labors all over? Who cut the wages? Who smacked the pensions? Who has the pensioners in line three, four, five years to get the pension? Isn't it your government and previous governments? What is it? Is that what you're It was their money even cut off. So that's the thieves. And who are the housekeepers? They're thieves all the governments. And they are worse thieves than the commons and the criminals because the sweat of generations, people who have been busted in building, shipyard, harder jobs and civil servants and others have literally robbed them all the governments so far. Why, really? Why wasn't there money? Oh, no. To fund large business groups. Who's the housekeeper? It's the working class. They are the workers who paid, as I said, with their blood and with their sweat and made the big and blooming insurance funds you delivered them to the north of the streams of capital. Therefore, Critton slowed it down, not like the cat, not to mention the saying proverb in my village. Mr. Hatzidakis came out here and swings our fingers. Who does the finger really move it to? The JRC? Who has all these years defended the right of workers, which is the minimum they have won for pensions and for any social and insurance system that you have demolished and demolished? So else the dilemmas. Who is - it says - with bureaucracy and who with retired people. What kind of smart are these? Not even in student amphitheaters are there. And you, I'm talking on behalf of the JRC, you're on paper. Well, aren't you embarrassed? Who made this bureaucracy? Who made this state? Who created the huge problems? Who fired workers who were needed? Who? To all these questions. These questions, let's not do them. People will answer them themselves. He's bringing a law, because it's a law. It's an amendment. But how many articles are they, Maria? Sixty? Normally because each one has five or six signatures. It brings a law - a challenge to workers, to pensioners, which is what? We don't have any illusions. These arguments are to tell to convince his own people. It takes another step to withdraw the urban state from responsibility for social security, along with private, along with everything that goes with it. That is to make the issue of insurance an individual and not a social provision and a right. Of course, he also indirectly attacks the workers, immoral of what I read, something he said "the cut of August" to the workers of the EKKA who, with so many redundancies, give everything to make the impossible and mechanics possible. Did you see? If other businessmen had asked for it, you'd have made it yesterday. Now to change computers that change panicly today, you need a year. How long? And you're telling us now you're gonna put it. One's working, and five's taking a picture. Your work is also of SYRIZA's previous government, so we don't forget. You are actually privatising the pension performance. We're not curious. We consider this to be a normal course for both the New Democracy programme and the European Union's guidelines in general, not to say the same thing about the operation of the capitalist system. As far as the rest of the matter is concerned, it is irrelevant. Because if you wanted to deal with them, you wouldn't fire them, you'd hire. And this argument, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy and the other parties, "we do not take because they do not need us after all", became deadly for the people, for the doctors, for the recruitment of doctors and nurses. Because, ladies and gentlemen, according to the regulations of hospitals, health centres etc., before the pandemic was 50% staff and now, in the pandemic, you preferred to die or stay disabled because it leaves too much. And people don't just die from the coroner. They go "fishermen", they say, and many others because you have turned the hospitals into CIVID -19 hospitals. And why all this? You don't know them? No, it's a political choice. Health is a cost, as others are costs. Secondly, private capital. Private clinics and mathematics that have been set up and set up with 60% and 70% subsidy from the Public Investment Programme and from European programmes have been treasured. That's how they set them up. Who feeds these? Just the rich and rich? No, workers themselves are feeding them again with your own policies, where they go and pay increased contributions, of course, but they have permanent customers from the insurance funds. Who pays the insurance funds? The workers. So it all works for business groups. That's the point. Now, to say, take the amendment back, it makes no sense. There's anesthesia here. And Mr. Hatzidakis didn't answer when I asked him how much is he? Is it 360, 400, 450, 500? Do you live at EUR 500, and even at this time of the crisis that their grandchildren are feeding? There is the disgrace of the system and the rot, which, instead of the younger people looking after older people, is the total backwards. Now on the subject of the bill very quickly I shall refer to it. In the debate which the Government of New Democracy has had, but not least as far as the rest of the parties present this draft law on the Code of Judicial Staff as necessary, as a neutral one. Watch out, neutral! Modernisation, says New Democracy, is neutral. So I read, as well as responding to the needs of the time. We agree. What needs is he responding to? We'll prove that. The criticism made by other parties is also epidermal on individual issues. It doesn't touch the core of why these changes are taking place, not just now. They've been starting a long time. And the proposals that are being made relate to the better functioning of justice, so that it serves the best strategy of the urban state today, and to justice. You're all talking about independent justice, about objective justice. Who are you telling? Is it independent? Others are the judges and some honest people who are trying to get through. With such an anti-Hallian framework, with such anti-Hallian laws, is justice dependent on them, promotes the harsh class policy implemented by governments, yes or no? So from this point of view it is dependent and is neither objective nor neutral. After all, all the changes that have been made, by all the governments in this direction have also been initiated on the basis of the European Union's line. To what end? The KKE says and argues with arguments that they seek to shape a justice more friendly to the needs of business groups, so more hostile to popular strata and popular interests. Are we wrong about that? Because he has wondered what the Minister has to do with the business interests. But the government itself admits it. What does the government and other parties say? It reiterates that justice plays a central role in economic development. We agree. But what growth? Capitalist development. What is the basis for this development? Profit. It is based on business interests and huge profits. Where's the profit coming from? From the exploitation of the workers themselves. These are truths that we don't have to make an analysis of Marx and capital. They're truths of everyday life that people live in. From there, of course, that's not all. What does he want to fix? First, to wipe out everything that exists as an obstacle to full immunity to investments and, more generally, to the development of profitability. Do you now have the companies themselves doing environmental study for their investment and will you not do this here? The whole economic policy of all governments in this direction has been initiated, and that is why there is no criticism from the other parties. What else does he want to do? To privatize through the whole economic policy, to smash workers, to increase exploitation, to privatize all businesses. Privatisation is also a way of mediating and justice. And today we also saw it in the insurance system. Furthermore, the Government admits that reforms in the area of justice are of key importance in absorbing the resources of the Recovery Fund. That's a billion-billion-dollar-dollar-dollar-dollar-dollar-dollar-dollar-dollar-dollar-dollar-dollar-dollar-dollar-dollar-dollar-dollar party. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] I shall also take my dentistry, Mr President, and I shall not speak again. Because this is where we all live. We know what a Recovery Fund means. If you want, let us make an account: 363 million for hospitals, about 300 - I think there, above - for primary health and for business groups astronomical sums, which is money for the people of the European Union and the Greek people, who will pay them either directly or indirectly from the increase in debt. Why are you blaming us that this is not related to the service of capital interests? What does the Pissaridis report say? ‘Justice must be transformed from a factor of uncertainty to a factor of confidence’. For who? Is it for the people? "Investors" is the next word, the key. That's it, isn't it? Why didn't he say 'of the people and of course of the investors'? It is a cynical report, as cynical as capitalism is. It says that it must be in its service, that justice must serve investors to serve the interests of big capital and have your opinion beforehand. In this direction, rapid investment chambers in the courts, luxury procedures with specialised judges. And the Pissaridis report goes on to say: 'Expansion of special luxury sections', that is to say, 'other issues of economic interest and competition', which certainly concerns workers, not profits. "Government", how you will eat the homes of the world. ‘Corporate Governance’. Really, who do they serve? Who are they serving? Gary, they say in my village, it looks like. The whole line is by all means of capital support and against the people. And since we're talking now about objective, about popular affairs, what are you doing? Why don't you make luxury services there? What do you do about family matters, which have had to be part of it for twenty years and you have not made it? Why? It doesn't serve such interests. When a worker is taken four and five years to get his jobs and much worse, why don't you build a specialised department in the courts dealing with the workplace, so that people don't suffer too much and too much. Where are you fast in awarding? Because you're talking about speed. That's amazing. On strikes. Even in the quarantine, you opened them to take out three illegal strikes. Today he testifies to a company, a company, a large group that the strike is illegal and abusive and at night the decision comes out directly and is over 90%. The cases of judges standing up are rare. The private mediation who serves? You said it was easy. Who makes it easier? The one with money. I'm an employee and the bank across the street. Who's gonna win mediation? Don't tell me the worker wins. No way. He'll put in the best offices, use all the means. The bankruptcy code why are you changing it now? Why are you doing this? The protection of first residence is stopped. For who? For banks and funds. Unless the workers of "LARCO" or other workers throughout Greece buy them. Can you tell me how these relate to the Code of Judiciary, beyond the rest, but also to the officials in the public sector in general? That's not all that's done. You want to make people - pawns - pawns of the system I mean - not only to judiciary officials, but more generally. You want to build people who will serve without getting a cich, I say so, for the injustices of the system, for what's going on there. You want people who are dedicated, that is to say, convinced. And because this is not the case, you're putting measures. What are these measures you're putting into? You're making an assessment. On which criteria will the evaluation be carried out? Whether they're performing, if they've got multiple activities, etc. Where? Inside the ruins of the courts, which one has to do with a thousand? Is that how you're gonna evaluate him? But there is also an insurance policy called an interview. Because that's what we have to call it, interview. I don't know how much he has, but I know from elsewhere that's 40%. What's the interview? It's - it says - structured. What if? Who's giving it up? What questions? Is the crisis subject to an interview or not? It is. What will he judge and who will the other one promote? The one who's more committed and who doesn't make a speech, probably not strike, who doesn't blame for this whole situation. In promotions, too. But it's also the axe of disciplinary sentences from above. If it doesn't pass smoothly, if it doesn't pass with the submission, it'll pass with the punishment. That is how you want to shape such people throughout the public sector throughout the public sector. You won't make it, be sure, even though it can be temporary. Maria Konnakka said it in detail. There's one more thing. I have a question. He says - and I conclude with this - that "court officers are prohibited from manifesting or disseminating political and philosophical beliefs..." - which describes them - "... in the performance of their duties or using their status". What does that mean, especially the last one? So, what are they gonna do? Will they deny their beliefs? Will they make statements of repentance? Wouldn't they dare say anything? What she's saying "using their quality". They're judicial officers. They won't dare talk about a strike? They won't dare blame the system? They won't dare blame any government? Won't they have a reason? They'll be speechless. Aren't they workers? Don't they pay taxes? Aren't they about the whole economic policy? I do not mention any more, not to abuse time. It has been said in detail, and I think our rapporteur, in all areas, spoke of the amendment, as well as Christos Katsotis, as well. I just want to point out, by closing the cemetery silence of the other parties for the essence, for what administration they want, what justice they want, and that's normal. When you defend the capitalist system, you try to make reforms which, however, are not done and what happens is unpopular. It is unnecessary to say that we are voting against it. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u175	Thank you, too, Mr. Palphie. One amendment has been tabled, and I see that the arrangements for the vaccination centres which the Minister wants to develop are urgent. Of course, you will have all the time, perhaps even more, the rapporteurs to answer. Minister, I would ask you not to leave if there is any question. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u176	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to support the urgent amendment tabled by the Ministry of Health by a general number of 868 and a special number 57, which concerns the operation of vaccination centres. You are all aware that more and more doses are available in our country and that the rate of vaccination of the population is increasing and within the framework of the National Vaccine Campaign of the general population and with the aim of increasing the vaccination lines and speeding up the project, the hospitals of the ERH, the Hospital of Papageorgiou, the “Onasio”, the “Aretaire” Hospital and the “Egyptio” Hospital, in which vaccinations can be carried out. The provisions which we have put forward are strictly necessary, on the one hand, to increase vaccination and, on the other, to regulate the way in which the vaccination centres operate in relation to the staff employed, working hours and the procedure for compensation. In particular, the seven-day operation of vaccination centres shall be established and their working hours extended. The method of calculating the compensation of each category of staff employed per day of work shall be specified in order to facilitate the clearance of the fees. More importantly, an additional amount of EUR 20 per day per worker is set for each day of his work on Saturdays, Sundays and holidays, firstly as recognition of the offer in the effort to vacate the general population and as an incentive to participate in the vaccination campaign. The operation of the vaccination centres and its support shall be complemented and the other primary health care services provided shall be strengthened. Moreover, it is foreseen for staff employed in high-capacity vaccination centres operating under the supervision of the General Secretariat for Civil Protection, and in this case a net amount of EUR 20 per employee is allocated on the same terms and conditions as in health centres. Furthermore, an amount of EUR 20 per employee per day of their employment on Saturdays, Sundays and holidays for staff of the National Public Health Agency. The method of compensation for the employment of the other staff of the health centres at their work on Saturday is generally laid down. The provision is also made for the implementation of the National Coronary Vaccines Programme, in the vaccination process private health structures, such as private multi-medical hospitals, private hospitals and clinics, as well as private diagnostic centres, and for each vaccination scheme, to be included. Finally, Article 4 of this amendment stipulates that the members of the National Committee for the Protection of Public Health against Coronary Hazards, the Committee for the Protection of Extreme Contractors for Public Health and the National Committee for Vaccines are not responsible, are not prosecuted and are not considered for an opinion they have put forward or voted on in the course of their duties. Corrigendum is only allowed for slandering or extruding. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u177	Does anyone want the reason for clarification?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u178	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u179	Only if it is for clarification of the amendment. Otherwise, you'll get after the speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u180	Only one clarification to write in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u181	You have the floor, Mr. Blondopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u182	Minister, I imagine that the last subparagraph of paragraph 4 which says 'prosecuting is allowed only for slandering and exalting', you mean within the committee? Is that right?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u183	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u184	That's self-evident. Mr Maraveyas has the floor and I will give the floor to Mr Ragosi if he wishes to see the parliamentary representative of SYRIZA. Mr. Maraveya, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u185	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am starting from the last amendment tabled by the Deputy Minister for Health, which gives the sign of the consistency of the Prime Minister's announcements from this step towards accelerating vaccinations leading to a rapid sanitation of the country, a real 'Freedom' operation, which is carried out in every way, through every means available to this government. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we should start by recognising the interest of the Ministry of Justice in the stable staffing of the courts with administrative staff. This is an issue that, of course, has to do with the AACC and the rapid willingness to appoint successful candidates in its competitions, as shown by our recent experience in Magnesia with the Almyros Peace Court. The government's positive intervention has been recorded and we see today in general something similar to the draft legislation being discussed. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this bill attempts to modernise the services of administrative justice support, focusing on the main pillar: their staff and their skills. The question of the Staff Regulations of Officials of the European Communities and of the Conditions of Employment of Other Servants of the European Communities is finalised. Objective rules shall be laid down for the assessment of all judicial officers. A transparent system for the staff of judges is introduced based on all their qualifications, proven by documents, but also through the structured interview. For the first time, the mobilisation of judges to participate in training courses is established. An annual training permit is awarded for training, training and postgraduate courses on the subject of their service. Two more innovations are the new branches of officials created, documentation and communication of the judicial work, which will support the work of both judges and prosecutors. I would like to point out at this point that it is sensible to propose the officials of the administrative courts to include them - it has one logic - in the mobility programme of the Ministry of the Interior. I do not see any reason for not adopting an extroverted measure which will facilitate the lives of both family and other reasons for moving to a body outside justice, but at the same time actually solve the complexity of the lack of reluctance of unwilling officials who are not really serving them. I have said on the occasion of similar cases, such as the e-VACA, that this ban is hampering and causing problems with the development of employees and I am not sure it helps the body where they are serving to speed up their work. I would like to say, Mr President, a few words on the amendment tabled by the Ministry of Labour, which is about the award of pensions and, of course, is directly linked to these remarks. The relevant Ministry is right to find that the problem in e-VETA is the staff available for the preparation and adoption of retirement decisions. It is true, ladies and gentlemen, that this is where the issue is focused, not the electronic pension issue or the main pension advances, which are already electronically provided. For this reason, Mr Hatzidakis is being recruited - in the good sense of the term - accountants and lawyers, who, after certification, will be able to help both the main and the supplementary pensions. It is an excellent idea, which I am sure we will all be happy to see that pensions are given speedily. However, as the process of certifying them by the professional associations concerned and the creation of the new e-ECA cooperation structures with all interested parties will take time, I would like to reintroduce a proposal that I have made from this Step before on speeding up the award of outstanding pensions. It is about creating a programme of internal mobility in e-ECA, based on providing its employees with both economic incentives and the necessary retraining, so that they can engage in the award of pensions. We have to note here that almost eight thousand employees are serving in e-Russian e-Russian service, a large proportion of whom are engaged in support work and a smaller one in the award of benefits. There is therefore an e-ECA and a huge human resource that can be exploited in this direction. More specifically, by appropriate retraining, such staff could undertake specific tasks, such as the determination of the time of insurance, chief and subsidiary, the determination of the existence or non-reimbursable contributions for self-employed or self-employed persons and their adjustment, the calculation of the redemption costs for the recognition of plausible periods of insurance, the issue of a pre-retirement certificate, the settlement of debts and, of course, the adoption of a draft temporary pension decision, as well as a final retirement decision. I personally think that exploiting the existing e-ECA's potential is as important as its external support by lawyers and accountants or by simplifying administrative procedures. In relation to the latter, I would like to stress that the corresponding simplification measures included in the amendment tabled by Kostis Hatzidakis are the dismissal of the application of the complex interpretations of which, in practice, prevented farmers and freelance professionals from receiving a pension, the compulsory pension and pension certificate for successive insurance cases, and of course, the recognition of periods of insurance in the OGA, which are now in dispute between OGA and OGA. The problem of e-ECA is undoubtedly, ladies and gentlemen, very complex and the fronts that the Ministry of Labour is fighting for are many. I think it is also our responsibility as parliamentarians to support the government in this great effort, contributing with our own proposals. For such issues as insurance can only be resolved by working together and by involving our society more generally in a positive way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u186	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Then it will take the floor, once the seat is settled, the Parliamentary Representative of SYRIZA Mr Raguss. Immediately afterwards, we will enter the Webex speaker, with the first speaker, Mr. Dimitris Kouvella. Please, get ready. Mr Ragossi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u187	Thank you, Mr President. For the bill itself, for the favours and againsts, for the view we have in the whole and in the individual articles, our fellow Members and above all our rapporteur, Mr Xanthopoulou, who I think has explained to you quite clearly where we agree, where we disagree and where we disagree, why we disagree. The truth is that it is one of the bills that one, and even a parliamentary representative, might not take the floor. But on the other hand, and if anyone wants to sanctify, you're not leaving him personally, Mr. Chiara. To date, it has been possible to say that, for every law that the government is proposing to the National Representation, you will also bring an amendment to the National Representation, not to consultation, but to consider, except for any rule relating to what we call and repeatedly call good legislation. Today, with what you have done, Mr Chiara, I think you have opened a completely new path, but unfortunately not a pink one. On the contrary, a pervert, a dangerous road to legislation. Why in fact now, for those who have an elementary experience of legislating, what is evident? It is clear that this particular case has come a law to hide behind it an unpleasant, unacceptable amendment that appeared at night - last night - in the Greek Parliament and even worse in the midst of a pandemic, confirming the most harsh critics of this government who characterize it as a government literally ruthless, perhaps the most ruthless one that the place has ever met, does not put a limit on itself, does not put a brake on the way in which it literally intervenes in critical institutions for society, for the economy, in order to turn them where it wishes, where it is, to turn them, obviously into one of the contracts that Mr Mitsotakis has entered into in an election campaign. So you have brought an amendment which, in the midst of pandemic and behind this, otherwise, innocent and suspicious bill, is fundamentally changing the procedure by which the head of authority is appointed to fight black money, criminal money. And you make two changes, one of secondary importance and one of major importance. It is of secondary importance, in my personal view, that you are simply predicting that instead of the highest public prosecutor who can take over the head, he can now also be in honour, he will also be after his active service. This is the secondary change. The major change that you are making, Mr Chiara, and which, in my view, you will be charged with - and Mr Mitsotakis as Prime Minister and you as Minister of Justice - is that you change the big and crucial issue, which is, in other words, who is the subject of what decides to appoint the head.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u188	He can't be chosen by...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u189	Leave that formal excuse, Mr. Chiara, and don't underestimate our intelligence. That is a typical excuse that confirms everything I have said and everything I shall say. Because what you are changing, if I am not mistaken by the establishment of the institution, since 2008 for the first time, for which Mrs Peloni, Mrs Peloni, today - if I have been correctly informed by the press - has stated ignorance, it is not simply that you put him in honour, because he is not in honour, because he cannot be appointed by the Supreme Judicial Council. That's not the turn you went with. The turn is backwards. Because you want the definition of head of the Supreme Judicial Council to be left and to go to your discretion and choice, as a government, that is to say, the choice of Mr Mitsotakis primarily and secondly to yours, you put him in honor so that you can appoint him. And while in Greece there was an independent source of power, such as the judiciary, on the basis of which the head was appointed to fight crime, dirty money, now Mitsotakis and Tsiara bring an amendment at night, in the pandemic, to designate the head of the fight against black money, criminal money. This is the major change you make. As my colleagues have already said, however, this was expected - in my opinion, the issue has been raised by the Union of Judges and Prosecutors and they are asking you to withdraw it. But for the second issue. The major point is that, to an independent authority, which was institutional, legislative and constitutionally obliged to fight against black and criminal money, you are destroying this independence, you are manipulating this independent authority and you will now no longer designate the head of it - the easily understood ones are omitted - to fulfil the contracts you have signed with all those who have an interest in dealing with not as the procedure has so far defined - through an independent authority, with all the guarantees of independence - but with the best friend you have now. On 3 September 2019, Mr Tsiara, in a government Mitsotakis, the Ministry of Finance issued a press release which said - it was legitimate to say that Greece's assessment report by the Financial Action Task Force, FATF, on the FATF's website, shows, at that time, the improvement of our country's position in the field of rules and actions in the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing. He said the Ministry of Finance in the Government of Mitsotakis: “According to this report Greece is classified in the first category of countries under normal surveillance with a high degree of compliance and an effective system to prevent and combat money laundering.” It supplements, of course - to hear the whole truth and not half - and this paragraph by the Ministry of Finance against Mitsotakis Government, because, obviously, it could not do otherwise: "This ranking in the highest category of countries is the result of an evaluation of the country that had been initiated and initiated by the previous government..." - that is, the government of Alexis Tsipras - "... to which officials from the public administration participated..." etc. What the Mitsotakis government was celebrating at that time is what they are now falling apart. Since the time the information is being made - obviously already runs online, news reports - that you are destroying independence, you are manipulating the independent authority to fight money laundering, the damage you will cause in the country will be incalculable, Mr. Tsiara...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u190	I mean, all of them...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u191	...and you personally and Mr. Mitsotakis. Because Greece from this ranking, for which you celebrated and which was due to the work done by the previous government, will now collapse. Because everyone knows what a youth - youth - is doing in tiles, they know what you are setting up through this amendment, the sad amendment you tabled last night in the Greek Parliament. And the question is, ladies and gentlemen, this is not what Mr Tsiaras knows, does Mr Mitsotakis not know? Apparently they know all about it, even if Mrs. Pelony shows up to ignore it. So let us imagine the size of the dependencies carried by Mr Mitsotakis himself, in order to oblige and bring such an amendment that there is absolutely no doubt about exactly what he is aiming at. You have been able to confirm, Mr Chiara, all those who are concerned about the country's course, all those who say and say again that you are going to make Greece, Colombia. You do the impossible - you can confirm them and now confirm us. Because - very unequivocally, I say this to you - we are denouncing you in the most official and most unequivocal way about this unacceptable and disgraceful amendment you have brought to destroy the independence of the principle of the fight against black money. And I will close with only one phrase, Mr. Chiara. Only a very dirty government would go on destroying the independence of this independent authority, which was intended - normally - to fight black money and not, of course, to cover the cover, the support and the hood of all those who, instead of being in the hands of justice now, of course, will enjoy the goods of the rule of Mr Mitsotakis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u192	Thank you too, Mr Ragosi. And now we're going to join the Webex chat list. Mr. Dimitris Kouvelas has the floor. Here, Mr. Colleague, we are listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u193	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a draft law which I would say is self-evident. In other words, it aims to update the Code of Judiciary after twenty years in order to meet today's needs and requirements, which is absolutely essential for our country where problems in justice are large and over time, particularly in terms of its speed of award. They deserve congratulations to the Ministry's political leadership for all major reforms in the field of justice in less than two years and, of course, for those we know they follow. Let us not forget the unification of twenty-fifths of court certificates in a single certificate of economic and business activity for which citizens had to wait for hours in the offices of a court of a country. We had areas - landmarks, from the institution of the judicial mediation that I had the honour of proposing, until the establishment of rapid budgetary review courts, the digitisation of services, and we are now reaching streamlining the framework of the Code of Judicial Staff. The basic philosophy of today's bill moves in two main directions. On the one hand, modernising the valuable work of court officers through innovation and good international practices. On the other hand, it is a more general upgrade of how these services are organised in the courts throughout the country. From us fellow fighters, who are our lives not only in the judiciary, but also in the judges' secretaries, it can be easily understood how important the need to modernise the Code of Judicial Staff is. But most importantly, the results will be great for the judicial officers themselves and, ultimately, for the citizens. I am briefly referring to the innovations of the bill. It brings administrative services modernisation to justice, their connection to modern technological needs and the means offered by the technology. It introduces modern forms of mobilisation and training of the work of judges and their participation in training seminars. It is something that is more predictable than today. It guarantees the special institutional status of judicial officers as a relief in the proper administration of justice. It gives a definitive solution to the question of the Staff Regulations of Officials with regard to the working of private law for an indefinite period, i.e. the officials who were transferred or transferred to the courts by means of mobility, but could not serve the Registrars of the courts and the prosecutors. These employees can now be fully exploited. It also establishes fair and objective rules for the assessment of judicial officers and introduces a system that is impartial for their service promotion and development. Finally - and perhaps most importantly - it is the establishment of the two new branches of specialised judicial officers who will assist the judges in their difficult and important work. The area of judicial documentation and assistance comes as something of the future for the Greek judiciary. It will support the judges themselves, providing, among other things, legislative documentation and literature. We hear the judges constantly complain that the time does not come out because of the many cases they have to deal with. These judges will help them to deal more systematically with the cases that have been charged by the judges and ultimately to the more rapid administration of justice. The judicial communication and international relations sector is the second new branch of judicial officers. They will operate at the beginning of both pilots at the highest courts in the country. It is only about introducing good international practices into our legal system from systems such as France, Germany, the United States and, of course, the practices of the Court of Justice of the European Union and other international courts. In order for all this to work in practice, however, Minister, we also have to see the question of staffing or subscribing, if you like, this problem of correspondence in many courts in the country. It's not just a public administration part of justice. It has specificities, it has particular institutional status and the judicial officers respectively, and it requires proper administration of the services if we want to have the desired results and ultimately to protect legal certainty. Mr Ministers, on the occasion of today's debate, let me also look at the problems that lawyers are facing at the moment, and I do so in the capacity of the fighting lawyer, constantly in contact with hundreds of my colleagues, with the office and the members of the Association of Thessaloniki. For more than a year, everyone has had great difficulties. We know that the courts are acting, judicial work is not actually produced, so there are no jobs to be done and the obligations of the lawyers are running. I have made several speeches all this time through parliamentary scrutiny of lawyers' issues. I will once again make a fair request for the body to join even now a large number of lawyers in the programme of repayable advance on income criteria, which will especially relieve financially weaker and younger colleagues. Of course, it is not possible with closed courts that lawyers pay a trade fee, or EUR 650 a year. At least for 2020 they should be exempted from this obligation. I cannot comment on this point, by closing down the legislative intervention and the debate that has taken place on speeding up the award of pensions. Ladies and gentlemen, your hypocrisy is over. You told us that it was coming as an amendment without prior social and political consultation, as an example of poor legislative practice in the midst of a pandemic what exactly? Are you confusing today's debate with the pension cut that the SYRIZA government imposed on the conversion of the insurance system into a tax espressive with the Katrugalos law? A procedure is being introduced here today to clarify the applications pending and speed up the award of pensions. Do you forget the more than three hundred thousand pending applications, when you handed over the keys in July 2019 and already put the first Minister of Labour of the Government of New Democracy in order? The Prime Minister's commitment is to finish with the pending requests as soon as possible. I'd expect to hear that's your wish, that you want more people and even more flexible and digitalised services, more weapons to go faster. Instead, you are, unfortunately, defending bureaucracy. I would like to put forward two points, in substance. Insurance legislation is complex, ladies and gentlemen, and few lawyers and accountants are well acquainted with it. It is therefore important to place particular emphasis on the training of freelance professionals who will be accredited and assisted in this effort of the Ministry. Secondly, I would suggest that there should be a provision for some sort of rotation of accountants and lawyers who are going to process applications so that there is no time-consuming heavy burden on a few people with the inevitable eventual consequence of delaying the services provided to the ECAA and its citizens. I conclude by saying that the respective code of conduct for public services and officials is not a field of ideological obsession or a tool for short-term party services. It is the means for public administration to function properly and above all effectively as a whole. I invite you to vote in favour of this draft law and thank you very much. Good Easter to everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u194	Thank you, Mr. Kouvela. The Parliamentary spokesman for Mera25, Mrs Apatzides, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u195	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today belongs to these supposedly effective bills that you are constantly bringing to us, what they are supposed to modernise the state and the administration. We are very doubtful about this, because it seems that this draft law is more likely to strengthen the existing judiciary than to modernise it. No one disagrees that this code should sometime change. The bill, however, in which we are called upon to place ourselves, does not move in the right direction, as it is very little, very much under the requirements and needs that exist, which not only does it not satisfy, but does not even know. So, in line with so many other final bills you brought us, such as, for example, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the ADAP, the ATT, this bill effectively circumvents the principle of uniform rules for the public sector, because this is what we see through the armies of posted officials that he added and through the smaller agencies he compiled for bodies in the wider public sector. It is a differentiation that is not just about the judges, who are, after all, a separate branch. This differentiation now concerns all administrative, information, legal, and both newly established branches of documentation and assistance for judicial work and judicial communication and international relations. Thus, we see a separation of civil servants from multi-speed employees. The most scandalous is not found in provisions that provide for a ban on transfers, a low moleculosis for degrees, postgraduate and doctoral at the expense of over-assessing experience and interview. This, in our view, shows that you are seeking or giving the opportunity to pay judges with less qualifications that have been appointed before, perhaps even before, as a precedent. In your constant tactics and in the name of excellence, which you have made a flag for two years, we see once again objective criteria being replaced by a blurred picture of an interview, experience, which will be taken into account quantitatively, but not qualitatively. In addition, special provisions are laid down for licences, disciplinary measures which cannot be justified by the special rules governing the exercise of the judicial function. This confirms the fact that the courts are for you a special gambler, which you want to strengthen and control. Are you trying to work on justice in the name of modernization and, indeed, how? Without even consulting the parties themselves, their own employees, their proposals and needs, which you refuse to listen to, Minister, as you do with any social or working group, considering that you know the needs better than they do. And with this arrogant perception, do you think it promotes modernity and merit, and you solve problems? That's why you are, gentlemen of the Couple, in the position you're in. This is your job and all of us in here, not the control and the working of each institution. At the same time, the burning issues of the industry remain, such as total subsistence, scandalous delays, justice, matters directly connected and mutually supplied remain, and, of course, the conditions under which judicial officers are called upon to do their job, especially now in the pandemic without any effective protection. How are these treated, really? At best with a friendly, condescending hit on the back and the worst with complete indifference. I do not want to go any further into this bill. After all, the problems that are created and those which are not solved are more than clear. I could not, however, point out that a part of the zeal you are showing in the effort to work on each sector for your benefit, part of the zeal you are showing to give gifts to others, to make gifts with direct assignments to everything, part of the zeal that you are showing in the sale of any public property that you have left in our country, part of this jealousy, and, in fact, small, if you have shown, and on the burning issues of that country, this place would certainly be in a much better position than we are at the moment, because in these burning issues we do not see the same heat. We see, however, the same indifference to anything other than you. The truth is, of course, that this should not be a surprise for us. It has also been heard from governmental lips that you are not the people of consensus. The problem, however, arises when reality itself comes to disprove the correctness of your decisions with the most characteristic example of the unprecedented pandemic. And yet, even reality, you do not hesitate to disprove when it does not respond to your account, and that is in all areas, whether health, education or the economy, in everything. Since the beginning of the pandemic, ladies and gentlemen - those who are here at the moment - Mera25 had proposed a concrete package of very reasonable measures aimed at strengthening the public system, the network of mass tests, which later become vaccinations to enable people to go there to be vaccinated, which would allow for a rapid return to the well-informed normality which the government constantly announces, but never comes, with the result that the citizens and the ESS are completely exhausted. On the contrary, what did we see from you? What have we been seeing for so long? An ever-constraining policy that would make sense if it were applied to the necessary preparation of the state, but it has no meaning when it is applied to replace its obligations, when you are gradually transferring your responsibility to citizens' actions so that you can move my finger, when devastated, through endless months of incarceration without meaning, trying to take their lives back. Do you really realize that you have within a year announced the end of the pandemic three and four times, while not only has it finished, but is it scanning everything in its path with hundreds of fellow citizens to remain full - the fifteenth day, the sixteenth day - and they have not been sealed into the ICUs? That's the reality. Of course, you'll tell me the Prime Minister is coming and he tells us that this is not the case. But what difference does it make if the doctors say it differently? The same and worse things happen both in education and in work and everywhere, as with the forthcoming changes that you are promoting by abolishing the eighth hour and, in fact, the legalisation of all the arbitrages observed in the workplace as a gift to your friends, who are friendly to the New Democracy, which is certainly not the world of work. Why do we mention this once again with every opportunity you give us? Because, if anything, it shows the way you are dealing with, ladies and gentlemen of the Complex, baptizing, in other words, progressing anything backward and reactionary, constantly disguising reality with the help of all the well-known and friendly to you because of it 'via mass deception', maintaining and imposing failed policies of obsolete times in the new, oligarchal technology - feudalism that you brought us at a time when gambling is an investment for the future, health and education not good, but a privilege and work thanks to the workers who will soon have to say 'thank you' for any work you give them. It's true that we at Mera25 are chasing ghosts of the past, as has been said in this Chamber. Yes, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, we are indeed chasing ghosts of the past. We're after you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u196	Thank you, Mrs. Apajidis. Mr Spyros Lappas, Member of SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u197	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think I should like to begin with the bill, because today in this House we will eventually end up not discussing a code with constitutional contempt and prediction, and that is against the parliamentary procedure, because, after the speech by the rapporteurs of the parties, we are more concerned with the amendments - seven, eight, ten, per cent - you are able to bring a hundred amendments - to a code provided for in the Constitution. I would like, therefore, today in this code, which concerns the judicial officers, to honor them and to include them as a team in the field of justice, which together with the law-makers and lawyers must respond to a huge, colossal question that arouses our country: What is justice and how is it being awarded? And it is a huge question that succeeds another previous question that prevailed in the years of the memorials: What is democracy and how do you gain? We must therefore remain in the second question and honour the judicial officers, who, along with the law-enforcementers and lawyers, have kept this home of justice up against fornicators and tribulations, deserve a double price, because overtime is not paid, other prerogatives only have constitutional protection under Article 92 of the Constitution. And, above all, we must listen, when we legislate, to those who are concerned with the bill. And those concerned with the bill are first the judicial officers, second - perhaps in a similar way - the law-makers, who will have the judicial officers, as provided for in the bill. The first is that. Secondly, I said something to the committee yesterday, and I wondered whether I was not right or not I would not be entitled. I said, therefore, when a code provided for in the Constitution is put in place for discussion and vote, in general, a code that the Minister called 'a love gospel', and today we are discussing such a good gospel', or I was wrong, but I am not wrong. I insisted, Mr President, that every time these 'principal gospels', i.e. the codes, whatever the code, which is provided for by our legal order and culture, must come for discussion and vote in accordance with the code procedures, that is to say, the draft of the Central Legislative Committee, and that the parties and bodies should be placed in it. Here's what happened today. The procedure has been chosen, the ordinary legislative procedure with the entry into force of a law, and since this morning we have been watching to parade one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight ministers who table whole bills, concerning millions of inhabitants, and do not choose a good piece of legislation. In other words, they should do so in consultation, the bodies and parties should be given the floor, and it should be discussed as appropriate in a modern - allegedly - European - supposedly - country and favoured state. This, in fact, is against the parliamentary procedure and it is a foolishness of its institution that we have now arrived in the evening and that we have not even discussed 10% of the plenary time for the code bill and discuss the amendments of the alpha, beta, gamma, delta of Ministers. This is your choice, Mr Ministers of Justice, which you chose to bring as a simple law and as a code, and we are all doing this today. And what we didn't hear today! Everything except the code. In any case, I do not think that this is how you honour the constitutional regulation, nor the judicial officers, nor the concept of justice as a whole. I think I am fully entitled, when I said that the procedure of the codes is a wise provision of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, to introduce, debate and vote, so that we do not have this phenomenon today of mocking everything up. Everything! First of all, before I go to the bill and say just two words - because they have been debated very much - I want to say something. From the day he entered the House for discussion this large bill, Thursday night to join the committee - within ten hours! - you have given neither parties nor the bodies time to express their minds, their opinions, their position, their analysis. How does a legal text, where each phrase, a 'and' if omitted, make no sense? How are they studied by the legal community within 10 hours of fifty articles? And not only that, but also the ministers and our rapporteur have expressed an indulgence about allegedly fearfulness and hesitation from the party of Officerial Responsibility, overlooking the relevant bodies, who were being shot in the guise. And I would like in particular to say to Mr Kotsira, to his young colleague and friend, and to say this to him: Legal science, Mr Kotsira, Mr. colleague, is based on a phrase from the Aristotle National Nicosia "Everything gar may have" which means that for everything in legal science there is no absoluteness, there is second opinion, there is a second thought, there is a second solution. And this was repeated by Thomas Ikinatis in Latin with the phrase "timeo hominem unius libri", which means to be afraid of the man of one book, that is, of one opinion, one point of view. If, then, we are lawyers and lawmakers in general who minister to the idea of justice, these are terrible arguments and do not tell the Greek Parliament again when we discuss bills of the Ministry of Justice! It is inadmissible primarily for the legal community and, secondly, for the political system. So the code is certain that many issues are dealt with positively for judicial officers. What I would say is the centre of opposition parties' disagreements are the two institutions that are being introduced. And because you say that we are afraid and reluctant, Mr Ministers, I do not believe that you have missed the remark of the House's Scientific Service, which reads as follows: Firstly, that the tasks of the first sector, the documentation, are generally formulated and are not clearly defined in relation to the judicial work, and that is why we are considering whether it is provided - listen to legal certainty - if you mean what we mean by 'legal certainty'! Secondly, that it would be necessary at least, in order to rescue the provision, to indicate the tasks that these officials will perform, to give a guiding principle, a guide to seafarers, to the legal community, to the judicial officers and to the judges, to know what we are talking about, to what tasks they start, to what limits, and where they end. And not just that. I'm going to talk to you now as a lawyer, Mr. Kotsira, who's legal, and you understand that. You could also negatively formulate it. In other words, either in the explanatory statement, but also in the law, you will have to formulate what these two institutions cannot do, the two branches you choose. Negatives! For example, say that they cannot do anything with reference, prevalence, in relation to any material or even procedural issue or in relation to the assessment of evidence. We have not even solved and hovered, at least in the sense of the legal systems, if I am aware of the major problems of these two institutions that we are introducing. And if that were all, i.e. the Scientific Service of the Parliament, or if only the parties to the opposition were only. We have a plenary session of a Supreme Court, the Ice Arrow, we have the Association of Judges and Prosecutors, we have those who are interested in the bill, the code, that is, the Federation of Judiciary officials who refuse to introduce this institution - not to say again the reasons - so be a little hearty and generous. The opposition parties have not gone mad, and they have inexcusable reservations or even any refusal. Because there is a process - at a legal level - of a negative attitude. Well, that goes too. I shall conclude, Mr President, with a few words on the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u198	Please, Mr. Lappa, complete. You've been to nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u199	Yes, Mr. President. I would say, Mr President - and you are both legal and legal - that if we go to resolve matters on the top, we know that the war in the field of justice is in the first instance and in the courts and tribunals, if we were to fight there, the highest courts would not need that institution. But when you go to resolve these issues in the Supreme Courts, you don't stop flowing the problem upwards and you don't actually help them. I shall close, Mr President, with the amendment for half a minute. In 2019 the Ministry of Justice started a monstrous crime, a crime I would say, Mr President, a huge crime. What was it? After eighteen months of withdrawing the commitment of crime products, when we talk about dirty money, when it is known in Greece that the court which has committed crime products will, in essence, judge the case after eight and ten years. And when the court decides now, what will the Greek State have on its fund of crime products? A hole in the water! And now you're coming and finishing crime with an infamous amendment - inconvenience! - which is not legal and you say that the President of the principle of combating black money - not to say many words - will no longer come from an institution of administrative justice.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u200	Mr. Lappa, you've been in 11 minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u201	I shall close with a phrase, Mr President. So we exclude the Supreme Judicial Council from judging who is responsible for it and strictly making a political choice to serve interests. Mr. Ragus told you. But I would like to end by saying this: we are already questioning the krone of Greek justice and of justice in general. As I told you yesterday, in righteousness all the arteries. Rather, "all sins" are and let me never be entitled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u202	Thank you, too. Mrs Brysidou has the floor now from New Democracy and Mr Harris Kastanides has to be prepared.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u203	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill adds to a series of legislation which introduces regulations aimed at improving the conditions for the functioning of justice. It sets out an organised framework for the functioning of the College of Judiciary officials. It sets rules, solves years of problems and simplifies administrative support services for justice. It is commonly accepted that the delay in the administration of justice in our country is a major issue. The citizen who has appealed to the courts is often afflicted for years until he has completed his case. We are therefore obliged as government to propose solutions so that this situation can be stopped. How are we going to do that? By legislation, such as today, which lays down uniform rules, in accordance with the principles of democracy and legal certainty. In this context, we are strengthening the work of judges. We are introducing the institution of the documentation and assistance staff of the judicial work, the so-called 'assisted judges'. Their task is to assist judicial services. In other words, we are discharging the judicial officers from a number of tasks which has been a negative factor in the timely adoption of decisions. The acceleration of the material in the files, their classification and other tasks in charge are undoubtedly undeniably unfavourable in terms of the speed of administration of justice. And that was for the simple reason: all the judges have spent much more time on things that were not about forming their judiciary. They were, in other words, more concerned with the classification of the material in relation to the adoption of the decisions, which is the most important task with which they are responsible. So this bill comes to resolve this issue. He gives the judge the help he needs in order to be fully committed to his work. At the same time, it ensures that the so-called 'assisted judges' will be given the assistance of a competitive procedure. It is absolutely ensured that assistants have the necessary qualifications to respond to this difficult work that undeniably requires legal and specialized knowledge. We thus lay the foundations, always with transparent procedures, for the quicker administration of justice, which is what is being called for. The establishment of a Judiciary Communications and International Relations Division is also established. The creation of this sector was absolutely necessary. In our time the truth can be falsified very easily. The contents of a judgment may be distorted, misinformed. As a result, judicial officers must not be disfellowshipped from society. We must ensure the administration of justice by distortions of all kinds, whether due to lack of information or to malicious objectives. This is why this sector is being established with a view to accurate, timely and valid information for the citizen on the functioning of the judicial system. These specialised officials will act as a rewarding link between justice and society. This is how the citizen's confidence in the rule of law is strengthened. In order to enhance the reliability of both the above-mentioned sectors, there is provision for in-depth training of officials appointed to them. In this way, the desired result is ensured through the best possible education. Since the pilot composition of these branches bears the expected fruit, the Government is ready to extend to other courts in the country, in line with the resulting needs. In addition, this draft law creates a concrete and adequate framework for the judicial review process. A guarantee is introduced that ensures the true and not the virtual assessment. For the first time, the assessment of the heads of government is being introduced, and the participation of judges in training programmes is being strengthened. Finally, a chronic problem is solved by the permanentisation of more than one of the civil servants of private law permanently placed through the mobility of judges. Ladies and gentlemen, the government continues on the road to acts and works. It continues to rationalise the state, strengthens the relationship between the confidence of a citizen and, above all, improves the everyday life and life of the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u204	Thank you, Mrs Brezidou, and respect for the time. It is now Mr Harris Kastanides, and then Mr Ploris, the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, will be prepared. Here, Mr. Castanides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u205	Thank you, Mr President. I would recommend greater cooling and restraint among majority colleagues on the government's reform front. I would stress this, Mr President, because we are in danger of being harmed by the government's reforms. To give some examples before I deal with the bill, although what I am about to say is an occupation with the government bill: it is not possible for a code, the Code of Judicial Officers, to become an endlessly cultivable field of amendments from other ministries. I have agreed with the intention and decision of the Minister of Justice that the code should be discussed, not in accordance with the procedure of the codes, but in accordance with the procedure of the common legislature, in order to be able to correct things, but from this point to point, six multi-page amendments from various ministries - Ministerial amendments - which have, in fact, been tabled immediately and legally, been tabled, a God that is safeguarded for your legislation! That is how we are going to have this phenomenon of the vast area of farmed land to be cultivated by the desires against the will of the ministers and the government. I beg your pardon very much, but that explains why I said before that we are in danger of being harmed by the government's reforms. Now one, Minister of Justice, of the amendments tabled by you - if my memory does not deceive me and it usually does not deceive me - the general number 867, predicts that, from now on, the independent authority responsible for money laundering can be either active or valued prosecutors. Now, I have reason to check you, as all my colleagues know, and you know, because I am the founder of the principle of money laundering, which, as you know, your government, your oldest governments, your political predecessors and your ancestors had a mere service on the corner. So I made it an independent authority, organized it in three departments with very important responsibilities, and indeed the first head of it by decision of the Supreme Judicial Council was the Deputy Prosecutor of the Panagiotis Nikolaoudis. Now, you want to add them in honor. Why? The answer is in the selection process: An active prosecutor is chosen by the Supreme Judicial Council. The honorable majority of the Committee on Institutions and Transparency will be chosen by you, namely by signing a joint decision of the Minister for Justice and the Minister for Finance, and the majority of the majority of the members of the Committee on Institutional Affairs and the Transparency will also have the right to express an opinion, namely the majority of the House, which is controlled by the New Democracy. I say 'controlled parties', because there are some newly built right-wings, as were some newly built left-wing lefters in the SYRIZA government. You are therefore choosing for a critical independent authority a man who will be yours. Well done! Once again, your Government's reformer. Because I do not want to say a few words about the Code of Judicial Officers, I would ask you and I would ask you not to try to cross the order. When I say do not attempt, of course, you can do so because you have the majority, fearless and fearless majority against its logic and duty! However, do not attempt to do so, I say it in the sense of the appeal I make not to do so. Don't violate the rules of transparency. Do not enter the well-known right-wing surveillance regime that your extradition has known for tens of years. Do not remove transparency rules laid down by others. There are too many examples that I could mention from the short government term from 2019 until now. Well, I will summarise the debate we held in the parliamentary committee. It is a good provision for the introduction of assistant judges. I propose once again, with the possibility, of authorising a ministerial decision, that the parameters for the performance of their duties be defined and that they should not be managed, that is, the people who will be recruited and their duties, only to the heads of the courts. Secondly, diplomas in the judgement of judges when they are to be held responsible must be measured in the same way as is done throughout the public sector. I could agree, for reasons of sectoral devolution and synergy, that the degrees of law need to be given more molecules than others. I don't. All diplomas, as is the case throughout the public sector, must be quantified in the same way. Change the modulation of the structured interview and the amazing invention of the nomadic committee for the seminars that will be attended by candidates to be judged for heads of staff, for positions of responsibility. Reduce the molecules of the seminars and reduce the molecules of the structured interview to achieve better internal equilibrium. Thirdly, I think that you may already suggest it - I think I have seen it in your legislative improvements - that the rule applicable throughout the public sector should apply, that secondary education graduates can claim head of department when the graduates who can claim and have the right to claim these posts are absent. It was very clearly said by a parliamentary committee and by Mrs Adamopoulou. Finally, I would ask that we provide for many worthy judges with high standard qualifications, with degrees, postgraduate or doctoral degrees, the possibility of a quota being passed on to the House of those who will be the assistants of the judges in this House tomorrow. I know they're not excluded from joining the contest. But perhaps we could take one more step and provide for the total number of those who will be recruited which corresponds to high-qualified judicial officers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u206	Thank you, Mr. Castanides. Minister, is the amendment ready?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u207	Not yet, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u208	He hasn't come yet?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u209	Soon, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u210	All right, Minister. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Athanasios Plumis, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u211	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a debate within a climate that we have experienced from the pandemic and the problems that exist and the effort we are all making to limit its spread. At the same time, this debate is being held and a day that despite the pandemic, as you have heard, the government is continuing to reduce to a large extent the tax injustices that have been done and to help all the productive groups, in the context of dealing with the risks that exist, with new tax reductions. I shall concentrate mainly on the part of a criticism that has been made today, both on the amendment by the Ministry of Labour and on the amendment by the Ministry of Justice, but also on the bill itself. I shall start with the amendment from the Ministry of Labour. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, I do not understand why there is so much fear of anyone who is free of charge and who is a lawyer and an economist about whether he can do the work that the bill entrusts him. Is there an idealism coming mainly from the Left which tells us what? It tells us that in this place the public interest is guaranteed only by civil servants. There is no one else to ensure the public interest. He went through here and spoke very offensively about lawyers and economists. Because the objection you raised, apart from the other things I will be dealing with, was, in principle, that a job that only the civil servants have to do, i.e. assess the evidence to get a pension, cannot be done by the lawyer and the economist. And why can't he do it? Because, basically, it does not have the grounds for solvency! In other words, the signature of the legal person, who is a lawyer, who is financially and is in the Chamber of Economic Affairs, is not solved. We are, unfortunately, living in this. Because you've been through that idea. In fact, as Mr Kotsira knows, we are, unfortunately, living in court as well as in judges and prosecutors. There is a lawyer attestation saying I can't because I'm in another court, and he says: "To accept it, you will bring me a certificate from the Registrar of the court that he is there." That's insolvent on the presumption of the lawyer. So you come here and what you say to all these branches. You say that you who do this as a job when they come to you cannot do it and relieve the public system. It's the idea you have that everything must be done by the public. Mr Hatzidakis tells you here: 'But it is possible! In this way, pensions can be cleared much faster." And here, I beg your pardon, you deliberately do - because you know it - to an injustice in the work done. Because Mr Brutsis when he said 80% were the four concrete steps - 80% would have been cleared up - to be implemented. And we started by the "ITLA" that existed. It became 31% to 32% more than the cleared pensions from 2019 to 2020. And the other measures that were in place would reach 1-1-2022 to 80%. That's what Mr. Brutsi said. And Mr. Brutsis has just fallen into what he has said on the question of the clearance of pensions. Now he comes here the Ministry and you come and say "No, the accountants won't do it, the lawyers won't do it." You offend these branches. The second argument. What do you think? You say in the end - another offense for the industry - and being paid by e-FYROM, they'll ask for money. That's what you said. That's what you're talking about in these branches. So the guy who's paid for by e-Ephka will also ask for the pensioner's money. Why? Because now that he's not doing his job, he's making money. But now he's making her a lawman. He's paid by the one who goes. Then he won't be paid. I can tell you other procedures that are opaque. But transparent procedures of a man who is a professional, accredited, and takes over a public job and will be paid for this job, are not an opaque process. However, if I go into the argument you are saying - to see the distortion you have - I say this to you. So even though the lawyer is supposed to choose people. Will the public itself not be relieved to be able to clean up the other remaining pensions? Will the pension system once again not be favoured by the above-mentioned pension scheme? And since you are insulting the branches of lawyers and economists, you are also insulting the judiciary industry. I'll say what's heard today! To say that I consider it appropriate that there should be no prosecutors in honour and that they should be in positions of responsibility, even though they are in a position of responsibility to all the independent authorities. Let someone say it from a position of principle. I want him to tell the fight authority to be only an active prosecutor. And let's sit down and talk about it if he's standing or not standing. Is he standing up? Then we should take it to all the independent authorities. Do you want to see how many retired public prosecutors you put into the independent authorities? So why was Mrs Thanou a retired judiciary good for the Competition Committee and is a retired public prosecutor in the Authority for the fight against money laundering from criminal activities? But you did something more vulgar. Because that would be a reasonable argument, you would say that we in this position want a judicial officer. But here you came and offended the credibility of this person, namely that the prosecutors who are honored will enter into a conflict with the government in order to find themselves in this position and come to cover up cases. Insulting the entire judiciary, all prosecutors. And who do they say that? It says so, ladies and gentlemen, that you have come and changed a number of provisions, including active bribery, which have been made by a felony in a flood and which has been favoured by a series of cases, and Mr Tsiaras, as Minister of Justice, as well as the first changes he has made and with suggestions made on corruption, has changed from a felony to a felony again, but has taken over all the outstanding cases as a favorable law. But it was not just that Mr Kontonis remained, but he said that it was not just your political will and your political position to reduce the penalty, but that you did so after conciliation. And you come, who have no answer to your former Minister for why you were doing the corruption of a felony - which was certainly not in the beginning of the Left, you came to power to fight corruption, we were all the corrupt, you were the clean ones. But those in court today are celebrating and drinking water to all SYRIZA MPs, one by one, who, in their vote on July 1, 2019, applies that active bribery is a flood and assumptions such as “SIEMENS”, assumptions such as submarines, many other cases that have dealt with the political life of the place, have become faulty and have been banned. We thought that was it. Mr. Contonis said something else, which is not our business. We're not SYRIZA, getting into a gossip about what he means and what he doesn't mean. We are the government that brought active bribery back to a felony and if you have made it for other reasons to go and answer Mr Contonis. But it is not possible, with this past of you, which is now a criminal record in the Criminal Code, to come and suggest that a process that applies to all the independent authorities is coming here to do so with a thinking to cover up cases. The bill as a bill comes to streamline the services of the administrative support services of judges, creates objective rules for the assessment of judicial officers, including formal qualifications and efficiency. For the first time, moleculosis occurs if there are training seminars. Because, precisely, we want the best situation for the judicial officers. I will come to the two points where there was actually a criticism of the bill and it really makes me a very big impression that was heard by fellow lawyers, who have a great deal of experience in judicial matters. I am referring to the two services, in essence, as they are, to the documentation and assistance of the Judiciary. Above all, we all know that one of the main problems facing the judges is that many jobs that need a legal background and a capacity above these levels, while technical work, are obliged to do so by the judges themselves and lose valuable time from work, which they themselves have to do with the adoption of decisions. This institution applies, as far as I know, to almost all countries, at least Europe, but also to America. I have experience from Germany that it is the institution of the “Rechtspfleger”, which are high-level administrative officials of the courts, who assist judges in matters relating to the finding of case-law that may exist, in matters that can help them, especially the issue that the judges need. And what does she say now? That we should say exactly what their responsibilities are. But these will be designated by the judges themselves or if they obviously need an authorisation. But the judges themselves will judge what this work is needed and there is no danger, because it is finally the judge who will make the decision and decide what help is needed by the service that helps them. The same applies to the service for judicial communication. Both the “Bundesverfassungsgericht” and the “Bundesgerichtshof”, the respective Marios Ice of Germany and the Constitutional Court, have services where the officials are basically doing the announcements, what we often hear here as “drys”. Have you heard that? It says'removals by the Council of State for a decision'. This is done in an institutional way in other countries, in what they have to say about cases that they are dealing with. They are two services which are very close to the operation, as the legal system as a whole currently operates, both in European law and in Anglo-Saxon law, which are services that will primarily help the judges, and they are services that the judges will always have the first word. So there was essentially no other criticism of this bill, and I think it was largely - I am sorry to say this - hypocritical criticism, to think that the courts' civil servants, who will assist the judges, will actually change the way in which justice is given, and in some way they will affect the judges or cover the judges in their work. It's another offense to the judges. [[At this point the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council.]] With these considerations, we call on all of you to vote for the bill, and we call on you in particular on the two amendments that you are saying, one is in the Ministry of Labour, and the other is that it is about the Authority to fight against money laundering from criminal activities, even if you do not vote on them, not to criticise the judges, lawyers and economists as a whole, but your criticism of being limited to the letter to which it refers and in no way to transfer people who have shown that they can and will receive work, whether it is about the awarding of pensions, people who we trust to them in very difficult independent authorities, such as the communal officials, not to come here and say that if they take these positions as corrupted. It's a disgrace to these people.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u212	Thank you. Mr. Minister, you have the floor, and Mr. Skokakis follows.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u213	For only seconds, Mr President, to present the latest legislative improvements from the Scientific Committee of the Parliament. I think that all this is complete in this way in order to deal with any words and not just matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u214	Good, thank you. Mr. Dogman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u215	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, an amendment concerning two issues has been tabled. Both are issues which relate, in particular, to the development of the disease and the opening-up of the economy. The first part relates to the suspension of deadlines for the expiry, appearance and payment of securities, the famous ‘cheques’. We are talking about those who are already on parole and will need after the extension of the pandemic, which has lasted as long as we all know, to get a final suspension for sixty other days so that they don't all collide together, along with the opening of the business. These relate to the records relating to those who were particularly affected, over 40% reduction in turnover, and end from 1 to 31 May, and the urgency today, suspension of deadlines for the expiry, appearance and payment of 60 days. There is a similar rule for bearers, because the bearers, i.e. those who eat the suspension, must also be supported by an extension of the time limit for payment of certified debts, which expire from 1 April to 30 April, until 31 August, in order to give them some liquidity in order to be able to withstand the suspension of the cheques. The same is true of the composers, who are not affected, who take sixty days to be able to meet their own obligations. We also have an extension of the securities as follows: In November 2020 and January 2021, February and April 2021, by sixty days, but also corresponding extensions for certified bearer debts as follows: extension of the March securities for 30 days and for tourists who have been affected very much, the securities for the tourist season from 30 April are extended until 31 August, so that these companies can effectively recover during the tourist season and pay cheques. This concerns the part of the amendment which relates mainly to the Ministry of Finance. However, there is also a second article which extends until 31 May the period for the revocation decisions, for the deferral of decisions to be taken by the legal persons of the TBRs and the same grades of TBRs I and II, adopted on 31 December 2020. We had a number of problems in the OTAs and their legal persons because of the pandemic. Therefore, because of the sub-secretory presented, it is necessary to have this extension, so that we do not have any additional time-limits. That is the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u216	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u217	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u218	Just a minute, Mr. Ragosi. I would suggest that Mr Kalamatiano should first speak to close the Webex-cycle. Mr. Ragossi, have you not spoken?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u219	No, Mr. President. We have five minutes for the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u220	Oh, you've been in touch since this morning.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u221	Yes, Mr President, we have been informed and mentioned since this morning that we will have five minutes for the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u222	All right, Mr. Ragosi, I'll give you the five minutes. Let Mr Kalamatiano now speak, then the parliamentary representatives and the rapporteurs, so that the procedure with the Minister can be smoothly closed. Here you go, Mr. Kalamatiane, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u223	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I start with the bill under discussion and the fact that you are trying to enter without proper processing and preparation of institutions that are foreign to our legal system and do not fit in with it. You do not see that partial acceptance or misincorporation will cause many malfunctions in a system that is already burdened. With regard to Article 3 of the amendment you tabled and with which you are extending the redefinition of the requests of the Katseli Act that were cancelled during the suspension of the proceedings, I imagine you remember what we told you in the November debate. We told you, Minister, that you would be forced to extend continuously. So now it is time to be confirmed. If you had heard us from the beginning, many borrowers and their lawyers would have avoided the suffering and stress of suffocating deadlines. Minister, court submissiveness is a reality. I repeat that it must be your responsibility to recruit and serve the courts in key specialities that will fill the existing gaps, so that the judges in their work can also be effectively supported with a view to genuinely speeding up justice. I shall now refer to the amendment by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. Really, Minister of Labour, do you understand what you're doing? Are you aware of the chaos you will bring to pensions and social security in general? It is obvious that the government is in panic, as it is not capable of solving the problem with the hundreds of thousands of outstanding pension claims it itself created. So what are you doing? You force hundreds of thousands of candidate pensioners to run to accountants and lawyers for the self-evident obligation of the state and the insurance funds to issue and pay them pensions. You obligate EKKA to pay dozens or hundreds of millions of millions, while already "current" projects, such as the 2018 one, have been invested in helping the faster awarding of the pension. Really, Minister, why are you doing this? Eight months ago the Prime Minister himself announced to the Ministry of Labour the operation of the “ATLAS” system that would quickly remove pensions. So what happened? Why are you thus emptying the Prime Minister himself? Did you fail? Is the system delayed or not working and it's not effective? You must answer. You didn't give any answers to these. I would point out the following points: From the way the provision has been submitted, it is clear that people who will entrust private individuals with their case will sooner receive their pensions and others who will not assign it, will'boil up' and wait for months and years to get it. In fact, have you considered the possibility of a retiring the retired person to pay a little more, giving him something more to get his pensions out faster? This means that some who have to pay will get their pension faster than those who do not have to pay. Do you understand that you will cause 'citizenship' and illegal behaviour? Under no circumstances are we insulting accountants and lawyers. Equally, we want to protect their vast majority, which are both well-trained and adequate and empathetic to legality and justice. But what does the government do with it? It's obvious that what he's doing is losing the order of filing the application. Each application is currently progressing according to its protocol number. You now legalise the change of order and you will not first consider the oldest applications, but the ones that go ahead with the delegation. I would point out here that the change in the series of pensions was, until now, a disciplinary misconduct explicitly provided for in Article 107 of the Staff Code. So you legalise what has so far been illegal, namely the change in the order, the faster awarding of pension applications that have been submitted more recently than other older ones. Furthermore, the provision has clear constitutional issues, as the delegation of almost all the social-security work to private individuals affects the narrow core of the constitutional right to social security. Questions are also being raised concerning the institution of certification of individuals, their education and their adequacy, the conditions of transparency and control and so on. There is a direct question of protecting and using citizens' personal data, as the information systems of e-ECA, which individuals will control, have access to sensitive personal data, such as personal debtor profiles, debts, medical illnesses and many more. The promoted regulation attempts to conceal the enormous shortages of the funds in staff and logistics. Instead of ensuring the self-evident recruitment of officials and logistics, the Government is smuggling the ECA and canceling its active employees, whom it underestimates in a challenging way. Minister, you must understand that this regulation has serious issues of functionality, legitimacy, dignity and transparency. Even the plenary of the lawyers condemns it and does not accept it, because it poses serious problems in implementing the acceleration of the pension award, because it erroneouss the objective it pursues and creates a risk of developing oligopolistic situations. They say that in their communication the lawyers who will be invited tomorrow to apply the provision if you vote. It's not me, it's the lawyers, it's the full house. So withdraw the order even now. I'll bring in some more laughing things. You predict that the wrong decisions can be revoked within a decade. You realize that this is too long. If there is a mistake, the retired and the "certified" will be confronted with horror attacks, think, ten years back! You also see that, after a 30-day period, the drafting of drafts will apply as administrative acts, without control, without the signature by the competent institution, namely the officials of the EPC. If, therefore, the plans do not have time to check, they will apply as decisions, administrative acts adopted by individuals, despite mistakes or omissions they may have. You provide for a sample check only in 5% of cases. The remaining 95% will remain uncontrolled. Do you really understand the issues of legality that exist? Do you understand what adventures you are putting the insured, the certified accountants and lawyers, the ECA officials and social security as a whole? There is no end to the mistakes and omissions by this provision. Have you considered the possibility of a private person getting money from the insured to make not only a quicker, but also a higher pension amount than what he is entitled to? You have no provision in the provision of who and on what criteria is to determine whether an erroneous certificate is due to fraudulent or serious negligence of the certified person. The most common cause, of course, of such errors will be ignorance, ambiguity or the dimension of interpretative circulars in so complex pension legislation. However, one or some certified ones may seek and receive illegal economic benefit from this process. How will you protect the public interest? He said before the Minister said there would be sanctions. In what way? How will it be seen? He'll invoke the one who made the extra amount or the mistake that he made the mistake...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u224	Please, Mr. Colleague, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u225	I shall conclude, Mr President. How will you guarantee it? It is therefore clear that you are seeking to privatise the whole of social security. You are taking advantage of the problem of thousands of outstanding pensions that your Government has gnawed and you are giving much of the work of public social security to individuals, without any guarantee. Soon you will also bring the privatization of the subsidiary. You are trying to convince yourself that you are interested in the candidate pensioners who have been waiting for years to finally get the pension. But the truth is that you raised the problem, and now you are deceiving, mutilating, dismantling and handing over public social security to private individuals, indifferent to the insured and the public interest. But the citizens understand and will judge you strictly. Good Easter to everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u226	Thank you. I should like to inform you, ladies and gentlemen, because you told me about the five minutes that Mr Kaklamanis proposed that the rapporteur or the parliamentary representative should be given time. They won't both talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u227	On both sides of the line on the subject of the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u228	I'm sorry, Mr. Chiara, that's not your decision. Services tell me it's divorcing.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u229	Mr President, this is all about SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u230	All right, let's talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u231	I need to let you know. If that's the case, let's start with Mera25. Please, Mrs Adamopoulou, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u232	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to say, following on from what Mr Lappas said, that you have not brought a Code of Justice, that what the government has actually brought is a code. Because today the longest time of the legislative process has been spent by discussing amendments, namely legislation, by six ministries. We therefore have a beautiful multicode, which has incorporated precisely these legislations. This is the epitome of the poor lawmaking of the government, a fast track legislature. It's a memorial charge, it's an insult to the parliamentary procedure. Worst of all, it is a felony and insulting of the people you legislate about, such as judicial officers and pensioners. In relation to the much-discussed Article 24 I, as other Members have done, shall refer to the report by the Scientific Office of the Parliament, which reflects the question of whether the wording of this article on applicable provisions provides legal certainty for both the officials of the industry and the officials of justice. In the case of the analogous application of provisions proposed in the draft law, therefore, instead of the proposed application of provisions subject to the determination of a relevant sector specificity, it says that the Scientific Service of Parliament would be clearer and safer to refer to specific applicable provisions or legislation in the light of the fact that the duties of judicial officers in documentation and assistance are generally formulated and are not clearly delimited in relation to the judicial work. So you see, Minister, and Mr Pleis, that Parliament's Scientific Service is also expressing its concerns here, saying that there should be a reference, a reference to specific provisions obviously and procedural. Furthermore, as regards the definition of each court on the basis of its rules of procedure, what exactly will it be necessary, the Ice Bay's Plenary Assembly has already stated clearly that there is no need for any assistance, because there are all the instruments available to the Legal Intelligence Bank, all the indexes to which the judges have access. And in any case, we have not thought of the possibility: when the judge asks a judge to find him a case-law, this means that he will somehow show him what his intention is in terms of his judicial judgment. This violates the secrecy of the whole process. I am now returning to the point you mentioned, Minister, that they have succeeded in the competitions of the AACC by judiciary staff not only because of the difficulties of the employee's work, but also because of the low wages and incentives. You know the salary of the primary court official is EUR 680 and as you understand this money is not enough when someone serves at his home and lives in his own home. If he is forced to move elsewhere into the territory and rent a house, it is very likely that this exactly EUR 680 will not be enough for his fixed expenses, for their daily needs, for the obligations of himself and his family. And we're talking about elementary, not luxury. In addition, the judicial officers received a special allowance of EUR 180 linked to a small percentage of the members of the judiciary. Unfortunately, this allowance was cut with the Memorandum of Understanding and despite the fact that the salaries of the judges returned following judicial claims at pre-crisis levels, for judicial officials there is no corresponding concern. As the Federation of Judiciary officials of Greece has informed me, the Ministry has not even implemented the commitment of the Minister himself on the payment of over twenty-hours per month to each judiciary. It was your promise, Minister. That is why I told you that you were coming here and simply seeing some problems. But the moves you are finally making have nothing to do with solving serious problems. I would agree with the Secretary-General that there are no mutually exclusive conditions for most initiatives taken in a particular field. But I believe that he will agree with me too, that there are many problems and that we must first resolve the heavy and urgent issues. Luxuries and micro-regulations must stay at the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u233	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u234	Priorize, that is, on the basis of importance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u235	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u236	Mr President, I am not done. If I can have some more time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u237	You've got little.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u238	Thank you very much. In relation to the amendment you have brought to appoint the President of the Anti-legislation Authority...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u239	Madam President, the agreement you made this morning is for the rapporteur to speak and for the amendments to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u240	No, Mr President, I have already spoken about the amendment. Our parliamentary representative did not speak. I have spoken of the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u241	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u242	I would like to make a note, in relation to the consistent position of the Union of Judges and Prosecutors, that the judicial and public prosecutors should not, after the withdrawal of office for a two-year period, take any political or public position, because above all it serves the substance and the image and independence of justice and an end to the logic of transporting vessels. That's it. In the case of legal aid, Article 7(1a) shall deleted the words ‘no judicial officers shall be appointed who have been sentenced at least twice to slander’. Can you explain to us, Minister, why you completely remove slander? Removing the two times is understandable. But why not one? Finally, with regard to the addition to Article 24 (a) which states: 'under the responsibility and control of judges', I would like to say that it obviously does not solve anything, because it is self-evident...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u243	Thank you, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u244	Mr President, I am closing my proposal, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u245	You've reached eight minutes, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u246	It's my last sentence. There is nothing to ensure that this addition, because it goes without saying that it is signed by a judge and issued by a judicial judge, that it is not signed by a judicial judge.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u247	Madam Colleague, would you like to talk about the amendments?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u248	Mr President, I will only speak for one amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, it is in any case your own regular governmental practice in any way any bill you bring to accompany with a tsunami of amendments. Today the last plenary sitting before the Easter adjourned is not an exception, but a confirmation of this practice. So from the amendments that have entered this draft law, I will only stand on one at Mr Hatzidakis's. Mr. Hatzidakis, you are "Minister of Special Missions" to the detriment of workers and the public, "Superman of the Troika". After the sale of public property, OSE, PPC, Olympics, you are now coming to dismantle business relations. You want workers to work much longer, to get less paid, not to be paid for the overtime they do. You are not a Minister of Labour, you are a "Minister of Unemployment". You are preparing, in the midst of pandemic and restrictive measures, to bring the eight-hour abolition and the introduction of 10-hour work. And today, in continuing with the tradition of poor legislation, you are tabling an amendment to an unrelated bill which promotes unconstitutional solutions for pensioners. So you're putting the retired, Mr. Hatzidakis, on the payroll of legal offices to get a pension. After health, you limit the State's liability for the award of pensions through the assignment of social security parts to individuals. In other words, you are continuing the same disastrous path in the transformation of the state from a provider to a consultant and in the transfer of the state's responsibilities and obligations to citizens and individuals, thus cultivating in consciousness and understanding that the best social policy is individual responsibility. Pensioners will serve themselves on the basis of individual responsibility. We're finally wondering why we're paying taxes. What are the services? Where's the reward? We call for Mr Hatzidakis' amendment to be withdrawn immediately. Thank you very much for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u249	Thank you. Mr. Heta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u250	Minister, no worse!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u251	Mr. Kegeroglu has the floor now. Since Mr. Kegeroglu is not here, we will continue with Mrs. Konnakka.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u252	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I will only make a point in relation to the bill on Article 23. We have, of course, told the committees. We obviously consider it necessary to permanentize IDAH staff, but even in this case, it should not depend on the permanentisation of workers from the crisis process, which leaves - if you want - an open door to ensure that workers who have been genuinely fighting in these subordinated courts do not become permanent. Now, Minister, indeed once again, and in a process we are supposed to vote on codes, the amendments from the main part of the bill prevail, even the last amendment that came from the Ministry of Finance and that we have taken a look at them. I think that the amendment, which overshadows today's debate, is really challenging, namely the amendment by the Ministry of Labour. And even more provocative was the style with which the Minister came to defend the realities of the government. This is really a mockery and a challenge. The same governments have really broken down the insurance funds, opened doors and windows to private insurance, and what you describe as a temporary pension will eventually become the permanent amount of national pension and will not exceed EUR 300-350 because in these bankruptcy pensions you have condemned pensioners. And now you're coming out of here. Throughout the speech of the Minister, the proverb fits: "To burn you, Yannis, to lure you oil." You're asking for the pensioners to thank you already. After dismissing the workers' s sack and creating these huge delays, you are now coming and presenting them as a manna from heaven the privatization, even this last obligation of the state, the award of the pension. It's a huge challenge. He can't pass like this. Indeed, at the time you have fired contract workers who have had years of experience and in an incomprehensible way, the Minister refuses to reinstate them, you choose to turn substantially and open a field for business in large legal companies and for the last social services. Now they know very well what is going on and you create delusional ones and individual lawyers and accountants that supposedly from this story will also be able to earn some income. It is certainly a problem - we have said so on several occasions - and the way in which they come. They are essentially whole bills which need to be voted on with one vote and an article. There are provisions which we may not have objected to voting on. However, the fact is that the privatization of pensions - which in no way allows us to vote on them - is lagged down on the nature of the nature of the privatization of the pensions. To illustrate that in relation to the second article that increases the plaque for the pensioners of the former OGA, for their debts to the OGA, that is, it is an improvement compared to the 4,000 that has been to date. However, this wall is not enough either and it does not solve the problem. It should be increased, while the main problem remains the degradingly low pension of 400 euros. Similarly, for Article 5 on self-employed persons, we would like to say that there are tens of thousands of insured self-employed and self-employed professionals who are not covered by this wall and because they do not have the opportunity to pay a one-off difference up to the limit of the capped stays without receiving a pension. Our position is that fines and surcharges should be deleted for them along with the amount corresponding to the health contribution and that they should be given the opportunity to issue pensions and that there should be favourable arrangements for their payment thereafter. In relation to the Health Ministry's amendment, it is self-evident and I do not think we need to point out once again the need for vaccination coverage for the whole population. But even today, we cannot talk about limits and about who will be chosen to be vaccinated. Procedures must be accelerated immediately and it should be possible to be vaccinated with all vaccines that have been found safe. Of course, for us, the government's reassurance to show that, with vaccines and self test, we have come to an end with pandemic and that it does not take protective measures at work, measures to strengthen the public health system. It is necessary to establish new vaccination centres. But the government has so far done nothing to recruit staff in these vaccination centres. Particularly in primary health care goes with existing personnel, which is really exhausted and, of course, this extends the conversion of both hospitals and health centres exclusively to an illness. Of course, since you do not do all of this, you also give vaccinations to private clinics and private centres that have been treasured during the pandemic. I would now like to say a word about the amendment by the Ministry of Education. Two years now, no one's going to step in the universities, and the only one that gets in will be the police. This is where the world burns, and the Minister dreams of MATs. It is a challenge when schools remain closed to simply regulate extensions of the unacceptable law that you have passed in the middle of a pandemic.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u253	Thank you. Mr Ragossi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u254	Let's go in a row. Let Mr. Kegeroglu speak first.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u255	All right, Mr. Comrade. Mr Kegeroglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u256	Thank you, Mr President. I begin with the bill, which, with the legislative improvements to some articles, clarified the real content of the provisions and our positive attitude seems not only by voting at first, but also by voting in the overwhelming large majority of the articles, apart from some reservations we have in specific articles, which we shall make with our vote. With regard to the amendments, the last amendment from the Ministry of Finance has two articles. In both articles we are positive, so we are voting for it. I repeat and recall our position on the amendments that have many articles. We have asked the President of Parliament to vote separately in the procedure so that it does not falsify or for - to say positive - that the attitude of each party and every Member of Parliament can be genuinely expressed on the articles and not on the whole of an amendment, which I think is inconsistent with the concept of good legislature. The amendments are not being voted on in principle, they are being voted on their provisions. Each article must therefore be voted on separately. That is how the Rules of Procedure provide. This is a misinterpretation of the Rules of Procedure. I have therefore explained that we will not vote, in this sense, on the amendment of the Ministry of Labour, so that we will not take part in the vote, so that we do not blame one - two articles which are in a positive direction. I would like to point out what we have said about the system chosen by Mr Hatzidakis to deal with the problem of outstanding pensions. Of course, Mr Hatzidakis and the three hundred and fifty-three hundred and seventy-three thousand people who do not receive retirement for a long time are absolutely right and the state has no excuse to grant it and, furthermore, not to grant the temporary. You first chose a system against the temporary system. In other words, where we had a temporary and normal pension, the advance payment against the temporary pension was now added. In any case, you say a lot and do a little. But there is a huge issue here. You spoke about the use of the private sector. We're telling you, it's not private sector use. I wish it were, by rules and public control. It is a substitute for the public sector, and if all the actions that the private sector would do were to control and take the ratification of the public sector, that would certainly be a guarantee. Unfortunately, that's not even it. You said you'd check 5%. How is it possible, with 5% of private sector operations, that they are done well? And because this is where we have to tell you everything, the problem began to grow in 2012. So it is well known that the problem has been run by you and SYRIZA, exactly half the years. From 2012 until today there are nine years, four and a half years in SYRIZA and four and a half years in you. Let's see what you did and what SYRIZA did. Justification for either of you. Mr Brutsis has chosen - and, in my view, well - to intensify the attempt to digitise insurance through ATLANTA, so that we can actually issue pensions in a very short time if life is digitised. Because electronic governance systems have been integrated too late in our insurance system. Unfortunately, this effort has been postponed since 2015. This is where SYRIZA's responsibilities begin, since 2015, when he stopped trying to digitize. It then came, in various ways, to step up the effort to issue bonus pensions, fees, etc., only all bonuses received and not those who would get the pensions. It worked the system a year well, in 2018. But what's the result? That of the eighty-five thousand outstanding pensions we had before, we reached a hundred eighty-five thousand masters and a hundred twenty-two thousand supplementary pensions and sixty thousand single. So what does Hatzidakis say? For the past twenty-two months, and Mr Brutsis insists that "ATLANTAS", which lifts burdens, etc., goes on. And here comes Mr. Hatzidakis, and what does he say? "Atlanta" without evaluating him, without seeing that the problem is not the idea and digitization, but that there is no staff to do it and no digitisation takes place. We don't have information systems to do it, and the work with the digital private, because the individual was digitising again. So, instead of correcting the problem, he comes and says the following. "A" Brutsis, where did he collapse? I'm the one. So Cretan comes to the origin of the Minister and Cretan manager Kefaloyannis to bring us "TALO". But the 'DALOS' has a delicate point. It's the leg pen, which is already out. The system is under collapse before it starts to apply. There is no way it will be applied and yielded. In this sense, and precisely because the substance of the problems of digitisation and staffing of the EPC is not dealt with, the public and public security are being neglected and replaced and is placed in the good work that individuals will do, by direct contact with each beneficiary, with everything that this entails. Mr President, I do not complain that there will be a reduced pension. Increased probably all of them can come out. That's not the problem. The problem is that it will act as a greenhouse for a new interactive, low, of course, with regard to the subject, but a transaction. We can't drive citizens into a private transaction. This is the heart of the problem. In this sense, therefore, this article is not voted on by us, although the amendment as a whole has good rules, because the increase in the amounts it gives is not enough. It increases from four to six grand the debts it regulates. Really? Big pudding! For professionals, it's a huge problem. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u257	Mr Raguss has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u258	The government amendment, and in particular Article 4 thereof, stipulates that the members of the National Committee for the Protection of Public Health against Coronary Hazards, the Committee for the Management of Extreme Public Health Contractors by infectious agents and the National Committee for Vaccines are not liable, are not persecuted and are not considered for an opinion they have made, or for a vote they have given in the course of their duties, in the course of the operation of these committees. In our opinion, this is an amendment, namely, Minister, for a specific article on which the Minister for Health must return to Parliament and now announce its withdrawal. What exists in Greek society and you have made sure that it has been shaken, especially lately, that this lack of confidence, with this amendment that you are bringing today and that you are voting on, in fact you are leaving nothing standing up. You are putting tombstones on citizens' confidence in the face of what has so far been the scientific community of management of the pandemic. And that is something that cannot under any circumstances be accepted by us. We call for the withdrawal of this amendment. We are not even going to take part in this vote and, more generally, in the vote, because we are not going to legitimise this unacceptable inconsistent amendment, which you are going to vote on. And it's not just that you have in mind the protection of scientists. Protection of scientists from what? Do scientists need to have an opinion, have scientists asked that they want something to hide, do they want something to be protected? Did they not manage the human life of millions of Greeks and Greeks on the sole basis of their knowledge and science? What is it that scares them? Have you been recommended such a provision? Did you actually recommend such encryption? And, of course, this amendment does not only occupy the scientific committee of infectious diseases, it also occupyes governmental and service staff. Where and where? So they were playing with the lives of people, millions of Greeks? If they need to explain at any time, good explanations why they took the alpha or the beta decision, because it has now been revealed that they were actually partly guided by the ministerial interventions that were being made at committee meetings, what would they say? That they have the absolute protection of this amendment? And what are you protecting them from? Just responsibility and prosecution? Oh, no. And the wording of the opinion they gave or the vote they gave. To prosecute who? So the government has played with the lives of millions of Greeks and Greeks, will one of them be invited to give an explanation of this, and will the members of the scientific community not be able to express an opinion, why are you protecting them or why are you banning them, or why do you not allow them to do so with this annoying amendment? Instead of making public the minutes of the Committee on Infectiouss, the minutes of the National Committee on Public Health, which consists mainly - I repeat - of officials and government officials, are you trying to create in Greek society the belief that something needs to be hidden, something is, something unscientific, something unscientific, something unscientific, something injurious for the health of citizens? Because this amendment is annoying because it actually comes today to tell the Greek society that all those who participated in these committees have something to hide. I should like to stress here that we will be the first to defend the scientific community for the freedom of expression of scientific knowledge against anyone who can turn against them and who is ill-faithful, unorthodox, it is what we call "inspired" and so on. Of course, we're going to get in front of protecting them in this case. But we are not talking about it, we are talking about a general provision that says that they are not persecuted, accounted for and give no explanation. We, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, state categorically: we demand, in the name of social cohesion and social peace, that the minimum relationship of confidence you have left between the pandemic management units and the Greek people, that you now withdraw this completely unjustified and totally unacceptable and totally unprepared, annoying amendment. You don't even have a dialogue with the parties, say there's an alpha problem, see how we solve it. You have come at the very last minute to bring such a literally politically and constitutionally unacceptable amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u259	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u260	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have spoken. What's that now?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u261	Mr President, because you pushed me psychologically over time, I did not complete my position.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u262	But do not make a new position, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u263	No, I'm not repositioning.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u264	Leave him a bit, Mr. Pleari. Here, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u265	I would like to say that we, too, do not vote for the specific amendment concerning the members of the administrations and their discharge, but in the lymphatic way that Mr Raguss argued 'not persecuted, apologied, exempted' I recalled that the very same ones were in SYRIZA's amendment for the members of the CFS. The windshields are screwing up. What are you saying, Mr Ragosi?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u266	Mr Theophilos Xanthiopoulos, rapporteur from SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u267	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, Minister, I have two comments. In Article 21(4), you are to leave a suspicion that if there is no organic position there will be a combination of the positions of the staff members. In a case of a court of 'Kallikratis', for which we are opposed, there is a case where these people are abolished to remain exposed. Look at it a little if you can deal with it now. Secondly, Article 22(9) distinguishes between secretarial and judicial functions. I don't know if it's perfect if it's going to be so detailed procedures in the law. I would like to say, in general terms, that we should not create two different groups and so there is, in fact, an additional dystocia in the work of the committee. As far as the current amendments are concerned, I have said a great deal about the amendment tabled by Mr Hatzidakis. First of all, I asked him if he was aware of the decision taken by the Plenary Assembly, he said yes to me. Now, I don't know if he did it from an escape or if he didn't know what he read. Because the plenary session of the presidents of the lawyers’ associations at first instance has no objection to taking over the work, but the conditions set by it completely overthrow the legal arguments and the existence of this procedure. Therefore, or Mr Hatzidakis had not seen what the decision of the plenary of Presidents is saying or wanted to give a rough answer to get away from the deadlock. As far as the question of the amendment by the Ministry of Education is concerned, I will go along with Mr Kegeroglou. This process, by entering into an amendment to various provisions from which we would like to vote and others not, brings us back to the wall. It is clear that 3 and 4 in the Ministry of Education's amendment we wanted to vote on them, but there are Articles 1 and 2, where we are opposed, so we do not want to vote against the amendments. I want the Greek people to hear that we have seven amendments today, seven different ministers have produced and tabled amendments. In other words, it is a story that I really do not know whether it can be justified under the terms of the right speech. With regard to the amendment by the Ministry of National Defence, we are clearly voting in favour, and with the observation that we are concerned about why the uncertainty about the position of workers is prolonging. The three-month extension does not guarantee them since the government is not prepared - otherwise - to include their assurances in the competitive process for the new investor. We are voting in favour of the Ministry of Finance's amendment after the clarifications given by the Minister and we are voting in favour of it. And we come to the Health Ministry's amendment. Minister, a code that has been a consensual process all these days has come against you, I would say, since with two amendments, and Mr Hatzidakis, but also that of Mr Kontozamanis, who actually came to suggest immunity for the members of the committee, is escalating all the consensual structure in the air. We are not in principle opposed, but we want clarification. Did someone ask for it? Did some people ask for it? Is there a request to the government? Is there a document you can show us? Is there a need for which the parties should not come and make a shield of institutional protection for the freedom of speech and the expression of judgment and opinion of these people? Is it consistent with the parliamentary order that the Minister should come at two o'clock and bring such a piece of legislation, which, in addition to all other matters, also has legal issues? Because there are decisions by the Ice Bay which restrict this right. They're escaping criminal prosecutions? Bring us a document from where this need arises. Mr Contozamanis came and I asked him on purpose on the subject of slandering and exulting, if he refers to the committees, he said this clarification and he left. It can't be accepted. This is the type of ignorance of Parliament's procedures and the wide-ranging legalisation to settle open loose ends cannot be accepted. Please withdraw Mr Contozamani's amendment. He has no place in today's procedure. Open up a conversation to talk calmly to see what we can do. Otherwise, this amendment is a sign in the parliamentary procedure because it results without a long word and creates and breaks down the bond of confidence that society can have with the committees working on health policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u268	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u269	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u270	Please, Mr Plori, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u271	I shall be speaking only on the Health Ministry's amendment, because in my protagonist I have put myself on all matters, Mr President. I am surprised, ladies and gentlemen, because we were all here. Mr Contozamanis has spoken of the amendment. It had come before the amendment, clarifications were requested. The only clarification is from Mr. Xanthopoulou if slandering and exulting is again in the context of the duties. And obviously the parties along the way, after they have come to communication, come here again, forgive me, ladies and gentlemen, it says "it has a distance". Mr Xanthopoulou calmly says that it is right in the first place, but there are some issues. Mr Ragus said we will not take a position at all because it is a provocative amendment. Do you decide on SYRIZA, in principle is good and disagree with what Mr Xanthopoulou says or is what Mr Ragus says that we will not sit or vote on it? The reason why you will not sit or vote on it is because you will not have what to say to those in committee. So let's just go. What happens many times in our legal system, Mr President? In many proceedings this House has decided that there should be no criminal prosecution, namely that there should not be sued, that people should not be persecuted in the performance of their duties. And when? When they have audit work. Let me tell you not about the HFSF, which Mr Kegeroglu said, the auditors who go and perform checks in order to protect them from carrying out checks, we say that they cannot be prosecuted for acts which they express in the performance of their duties. Here's something someone might say that they wouldn't have to. Why? Because these people don't exercise command. What are they doing? They express an opinion and give a vote. What we have in the Constitution is also the Members who say 'in the performance of your duties for opinions and for votes'. So they do not decide themselves, so that a message report could be made and had some responsibility. But what is it protecting them, ladies and gentlemen? It protects them from the cannibalism we live - to say it directly - from sprayed and make news. Where these people have to be in a committee, which knows that no one can sue them, because they would never be sued by a person who has been consulted on the basis of his scientific status, such as the lawyers, who will never sue us if we make an opinion and possibly this opinion is correct. Because we have a role of suggestion. While these people are not in danger, then. In fact, what are they in danger? From malicious sues made by those who are against vaccination - which is why he says in the Committee on Vaccination - those who are against the measures. Don't you know there's a lawsuit for the masks? Teachers live in schools. They're suing them because the kid has to go without a mask or the kid has to go to school without taking self test. So you want all these people to sue, and the members of the committee, while they know they will be justified, must go to forty, fifty preliminary, to give written explanations, to say that when we said opening schools with self test were a scientific opinion and answering a complaint saying that someone put the self test because the self test could be a chip in the brain, as the other gives the leaf. They protect these people. And you do something even worse and you don't understand it. You have risen up and challenged this committee, because you said that we are bringing this provision not for the reasons we are now saying, and it is self-evident that people can do their job, but you leave it implied. That we bring it because they do not give the right vote and opinion, and in this way you are the ones who are trying to disperse the doubt about what scientists are proposing. And you are also politically cowardly, ladies and gentlemen, why sit here and vote against it and say that we do not want to. It's not both. As you say, we will not take a position at all so that we do not legalise this disgraceful amendment. That is what Mr Raguss says and, in the first place, Mr Xanthopoulou agrees. So come along, gentlemen of SYRIZA, as responsible as you can be, and say: We understand that this is about the blatant cases where these people will be confronted with irresponsible sues and will be troubled, and that is why we are voting for it, and we are in no way questioning the scientific adequacy and the vote they give in the exercise of their duties. It's only for vote and opinion.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u272	Mr President, please speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u273	Mr. Xanthopoulou has the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u274	I think Mr. Hatzidakis' syndrome runs the whole team. I said that it could be a basis for discussion, neither on the principle nor on the articles. And I ask the majority in Parliament that for a possible existential matter it did not proceed with such a procedure. That's what I said. So from there, it's obvious that these people probably have this need...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u275	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u276	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u277	Mr. Constantine Heitas has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u278	Thank you very much, Mr President. You know that I would not take the floor, but the government also seems unrepentant, but Parliamentary spokesman Mr Ploris, who has today cursed a part of the Greeks. He has the ability, I don't know what abilities and qualities Mr. Plearis has to divide society, characterize people as lying them down and sowing dissent. Who are you, Mr. Plearis, to divide Greece? Who are you to say they're sprayed and they're not? Who are you? You're just a congressman. You should be ashamed of yourself. As you should be ashamed of the amendment you have brought, because you know very well that these people are not talking about the CFS. They're talking about human lives and people have died. If you're interested in this, if you're not interested, continue what you're doing. Mr President, we have been requesting the Minutes for months from the contagious meetings. There were no, then there were, after they were hidden, now they came out, the President submitted them to us in the Minutes of the House the day before yesterday. We're talking about crimes here. The government's in a free fall. It can no longer handle the huge pandemic theme. Unfortunately, the Greek Solution is confirmed in everything and unfortunately this government has an arrogance and divides the world and society. With their descriptions we return to you. You guys are in a lot of trouble.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u279	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u280	Mr. Plori, you don't have to do this now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u281	It is necessary, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u282	Mr Athanasios Plearis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u283	Mr Medina Ortega (S). — (ES) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the President-in-Office of the Council on his excellent report.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u284	You're judging.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u285	Of course I am. And my party is judged by the votes it takes. But you are the anti-vaccination party and you come and say that we have reservations. And you're the party you're mocking those who don't want to take protective measures. I understand your stress to support them. It's not a society division. It's a division between logic and irrationality and you belong to the absurd.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u286	Mr Lazarus Javdaridis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u287	Ladies and gentlemen, in view of the possibilities of any substantial criticism of the new Code of Judicial Reform, the opposition apparently uncomfortable with the climate of consensus that has been in the Chamber has found another way to lift down the banners of destruction and misinformation. The reason for this was the amendment tabled by the Minister of Labour, Mr Hatzidakis, which speeds up the extradition of outstanding pensions, abolishes the exceptions for the granting of a temporary pension, while speeding up the issue of a successive pension, a procedure which is still a real part which has been made by this Minister. It is an amendment limiting unnecessary bureaucracy, and by providing for compulsory temporary retirement to more beneficiaries, it ensures the level of living of the pensioners pending the award of their final pensions. It is an amendment - a breakthrough involving the extradition of pensions and the private sector, with certified lawyers and accountants, paid by the ECA rather than by the Greek citizens, and which will substantially help the work of the exceptional staff of the Agency, which, with an excess of soul and sense of duty, actually make daily exceedances in the performance of their work. In fact, in the tendency to find a problem for every solution and to turn the white into black, SYRIZA, through Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou, described the amendment as unconstitutional and Corfu to privatise services as a whole of public administration to the detriment of citizens and the public interest. But let us also see the reality of the last delusion of those who show the continuing refusal and easy complaint as a very serious opposition. When, ladies and gentlemen, we received the country's governance by SYRIZA, the pension insurance reserves totaled one million and fifty-nine thousand, more than a million insurers who directly or indirectly reflected in pending dreams, hopes and goals, but also personal and family planning. At the same time, computers at EFKA's services after SYRIZA's administration, which now exercises revolutionary gymnastics, were left with Windows 2000, which could not be used for any work, and were not even software that would publish pensions. Of course, then no one from SYRIZA was moved. All those who are now throwing crocodile tears, supposedly to remove the work responsibilities of the workers of the EKKA, were whispering indifferently in the face of the work hymns they had been exposed to. What has the New Democracy Government done since the country took over? First, since 2020, it has earned 30% more pensions since 2019. You guys, gentlemen of SYRIZA, stay in the free words and in the greetings. We have done so. Secondly, we have taken a number of measures to speed up pensions, such as: We have moved on to the operation of paid scales for overtime work in awarding pensions with high-performance bonuses. We permanentd a hundred and forty - six contractors who were hostages for too many years and worked with judicial decisions. We've been recruiting hundreds of economists and accountants. Also pending is recruitment under a project contract and a hundred retired e-ECA employees. And we strengthened the OLAF's logistics equipment to help the employees in their work. And now, with this amendment, we are also making use of the private sector's powers to assist with its experience, but also its knowledge of the faster, more effective management of pensions, while reducing the huge burden currently being borne by ECA officials. Ladies and gentlemen, if what some people dream about is to keep citizens in a stagnant and with their ideas being bound up with an artisanal and ineffective functioning of the public sector, and in this case the ECA, abrupt and abundant of inaccurate, unrelenting and without any planning of a merger that has been imposed before the ECA services, we will respond and always respond with substance interventions to improve the day-to-day lives of our citizens. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u288	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u289	Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of the debate in plenary in the Greek Parliament on a very important draft law relating to the new Code of Justice. And it is a pity, because - I would agree with the view expressed by some colleagues - the whole debate was wronged, in fact, by the fact that there were amendments which created some tension and obviously a little more discussion. However, because I have listened to many of my fellow Members who have either attempted to express their general concern or trying to respond in general to the choices of the Ministry of Justice - I will not say to the Government - I want to talk about the bill and the amendment of the Ministry of Justice, to clarify some things because I think they are not right in the minds of many colleagues. Ladies and gentlemen, justice is a constitutional institution. It's an independent institution. Justice, in other words, works independently. The role of the Ministry of Justice is to create a framework for the functions of justice. However, the judges enjoy their personal and functional independence. The role of judges is also enshrined in the Constitution. So there is a specific influence on any policy, any government, through the Ministry of Justice, in the field of justice. Is the functioning of justice in our country having problems? Of course it does. Who can hide behind his finger? What is the biggest problem with the functioning of justice at the moment. Obviously, I think one can easily find the answer, the long delays in the time of justice. How can we solve this problem? Because I think we need to analyse all the parameters and all the basic thoughts so that we can all end up together. How can we solve this whole problem? By hiring judges only? By hiring judges alone? By voting for justice, in a general direction that is followed by all of Europe? Only if one can digitise justice will one solve the problem of justice? Modernising infrastructure, building new buildings, can this fact alone solve the problem? Obviously not. And I think you know that very well. I could remind all my fellow Members and colleagues that, as some colleagues rightly pointed out, the ratio of judges per specific number of people in Greece is one of the largest in Europe. So when a number of Members come in and say 'take extra judicial officers', obviously or do not know what the reality is or simply in a logic of opposition rhetoric insist on something that we know will not bring the solution. Is there a problem with the number of judges? Of course, there is. It is the biggest problem if you want to try to prioritise the problems in the field of justice. Why? Because we have one of the worst proportions - if not the worst - in Europe. How can this problem solve? I asked Mr Xanthopoulou twice, rhetorically - emphatically, in the discussions in the committee how many judicial officers were recruited on the days of SYRIZA's governance, not wanting to hurt him to hurt the previous government, as long as I try to demonstrate that there is an objective problem that obviously does not follow any government choices. Because there were competitions from the AACC in 2017 and 2018, through which the positions of the judicial officers were not paid. So we need to find a solution somewhere else. So what do we do from the first moment, ladies and gentlemen? We are trying to take a step - step by step - to implement a concrete, structured, targeted reform plan, so that we can respond to the well-known problems of the area of justice. One of the issues we need to see is the question of codes. Yes, at times, after decades, it is well known and commonly accepted that modernization is needed. So what do we do all this time? In fact today we are coming to vote on the new Code of Justice. We have voted in favour of the new Rules of Procedure of the Court of Auditors. At the end of the month, the Legislative Committee concludes its work on the new Code of Civil Procedure to speed up the political trial. I would like to believe that by next month the Monitoring Committee for the New Criminal Code will give us all these provisions in order to improve or, in any case, to heal the problems arising from the implementation of the new Criminal Code. And, of course, by the end of June, we will give the competent bodies the draft of a legislative committee, in which the Union of Judges and Prosecutors participated, the new code of the institution of the courts and judges. In this way, there is, essentially, an integrated 'intervention', positive 'intervention', to modernise the codes relating to the operation of justice as a whole. Do we need the codes? Does the codes help speed up justice? They're obviously helping. At the same time, we are moving towards the digitisation of justice. Have you seen, in the last few years, how many interventions have been made with the relevant Ministry of Digital Governance, either by unifying the various certificates, or by being able to take them electronically in really immediate time, but, of course, also through a logic of completing all the major programmes of digitisation relating to justice? The IACS - MAGP2, the next phase of the IACS - ICM, the Electronic Digital Criminal Register, all of these are interventions - in the part and part of the implementation - which we are going to see in the very near future. Infrastructures: Ladies and gentlemen, do you know when to become a new courthouse in Greece? Time exceeds twenty years in terms of initial planning. It is the first time that almost two decades have passed, in essence, through a meeting of the Government Committee, the construction of three major PPP projects relating to court palaces. And, of course, this will enable specific cities in Greece to have a decent, modern judicial palace, but also to be able in this way to maintain the judiciary of the adjoining laws for the next thirty years. Is our problem solved again on its own, which, if you like, is an attempt to plan for the construction of judges? Oh, no. However, justice cannot function in decency terms or in places of dignity. What is the last chapter, since we are supposed to be creating the basic rule, the codes or the case law? We are modernising, digitising the justice process and, on the other hand, reforming, renewing any judicial infrastructure. What's next chapter? It is the training of judicial officers and judicial officers, so that justice officials can respond to a modern reality. When I told you at committee meetings that this bill contributes, by putting a little stone or taking a small step, on this great path that we have to do in order to reform justice, I imagine now at least the fellow Members who come to the Step and may say one or the other without much - they think and do not connect things to each other, to understand that all of this must serve a specific design. It's not just digitisation. They're not alone with the codes. It is not on its own, if you wish, the training of judges and judges nor is it alone the effort being made to rebuild the judges. All this is together, it is a unity and one must see it through such logic and through such a prism if we really want to take the real step towards modernising justice and resolving the chronic problems we have. But let's go look at the bill issues. What are we really trying to do with this bill? This bill is a product in favour of four-year-old efforts by a legislative committee which completed its work through each planned procedure. In fact, it is a legislative committee that began in the day of the previous government - if I remember well since November 2016 - completed its work, handed the conclusion to the administrations of the Supreme Courts and returned to them with any observations. And when I was in the position of the Minister of Justice, now having the initial phase of this work and knowing that we had to end up, I reinstated myself in the same legislative committee in an effort to adopt all the observations of the Supreme Courts. The result is all that is being proposed today, ladies and gentlemen, to be the common position, the common place of senior judicial officers who participated in the relevant committee and, of course, the members of the Federation of Judiciary officials. It is not something that we invented or has to do with the intervention of the current government. The codes - some colleagues have said - are the sacred good news of justice. But being able today to modernise a Code of Judiciary which has been pointing out for twenty, twenty and a half years now marks the need for these changes, I think it is a very positive development for both Greek justice and for the Greek Parliament itself which is making such a process. There was a debate and a criticism of whether we should bring this debate through the well-known parliamentary procedure or whether we should vote in accordance with the codes procedure. Of course, I would also like to vote under the code procedure. But what does practice and recent reality say, ladies and gentlemen? What was the last attempt through which he tried to vote, through a code process, on a specific code? It was the latest attempt of the SYRIZA government to vote for the new Criminal Code and the new Code of Criminal Procedure. You know, ladies and gentlemen, what the parliamentary procedure for codes normally provides for? The codes come as such, just as they are received by the Legislative Committee, and if one has to follow the parliamentary procedure, it will neither change 'and' nor 'the Party'. Oh of the miracle - I will not tell you correctly or wrongly, right in my opinion - here in the debate, with an unjustified study, one day before the House closed down - we will do so in a little while - the current opposition, which was then government, came and changed a specific article proposed by the committee. And oh of the miracle - something else that proves the terrible study - on June 28, that is, on June 16, seventeen days later, a PPP changed twenty-eight points in the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure. How serious can such an approach be? Tell me. On the other hand, is there an excuse when we are supposed to honour a procedure, giving the authority that everyone should give when we do not have the power to keep that? In addition, ladies and gentlemen, you have seen that there were some points that needed change. They were your proposals, they were your proposals, of the opposition parties, which we accepted. We want to do our best when, of course, there is - I repeat - a good intention. And I think that our intention of the Ministry of Justice is to prove it in every way, at every opportunity, at every legislative initiative. But I want you to allow me to tell you that all this is very far from the use of a point of view, which has nothing to do with reality. At the moment, today, we are guaranteeing the special institutional status of judges as the relief of independent justice and we are definitively resolving the question of the Staff Regulations of Officials in the courts. You know, there were a lot of people about private law work indefinitely. We are establishing objective rules for the assessment of judicial officers, while introducing a modern, transparent system for the promotion of judicial staff based on their formal and practical qualifications. For the first time, their molecule is introduced through specific categories. There has been a lot of discussion on the issue of moleculosis and I think we have found the gold incision very little. The two hundred molecules the interview gave, we reached a hundred. However, if we look at how each qualification can be mobilised and you can put it all next to each other, I am sure that even these disagreements which have been expressed by many colleagues or different views, which may have even been about mobilisation of the seminars, I would say they would not be in that intensity. Because we have to understand that all this moleculosis, which to a large extent has created a discussion intensity, only concerns those who want to become heads of administration. It's not about the other category of judges. Another issue concerned the two new branches, the documentation industry and the IP which in fact concerned representation at the press offices of the legal formations. The good practice of the largest number of European courts in most European countries should not be an example of the functioning of Greek justice. In addition, when we have made it clear that there is no judicial work, we have made sure that even with the legislative improvement we have made. When, on the other hand, we know that delays in the adoption of decisions are one of the biggest issues in the problem of justice, we cannot try to find a solution to the problem. For the second sector we have spoken about, ladies and gentlemen, I am asking a number of colleagues who say that justice must not be seen as a different social reality. All these "televisions" you spoke about would probably not have this course or this resonance if there were proper information on the part of the court and the courts. Don't we want justice to have a modern social person? Do we not want to have a real information and not to maintain a parafiscal and misinformation that creates some other kind of tension in the Greek society? I believe that some points should obviously be found in order to formulate its opposition, but the logic says that all these things are respondents and should not be kept in a different logic. We are going to the controversial debate on the amendment concerning the Ministry of Justice. You know what impressed me? Apart from an article concerning the extension of the tank to the President of the Anti-Counterfeiting Authority, you said nothing about the other articles in the amendment. It was as if you were not interested in solving the problem of the examinations of lawyers who have been suffering for over a year and a half because of COVID, and we are finally giving the opportunity to end an unfinished situation. It was as if you were not even interested in the fact - and here there was a misunderstanding on the part of a dear colleague on the part of SYRIZA - that we are safeguarding the constitutional rights of Greek citizens and redefining the retiring cases because the courts were closed and were not working. As I mentioned this, I cannot understand you, ladies and gentlemen. If we had open courts, you'd tell me to close the courts. When the courts in any case operate through their basic function, you say ‘why do we not open the courts?’. At some point you must also have a firm position. Because this contradiction which is always repeated in the political argument that you know that it is an issue that can create the reason for the debate within Parliament, but it is certain that the Greek society is also watching it and that the average Greek citizen knows very well how we are dealing with exactly what is his consistency and exactly where he is. Nor have I heard you say anything because we are trying to solve the great problem of subscribing by the judicial officers as far as we are concerned, that for the first time, mobility is in place in the courts as a place, as a service alone. What one ought to keep out of this debate today, on the basis that we all agree that we have one of the worst proportions between judicial and judicial officials, is that at last, with a very great effort and a serious substantial contribution from the Ministry of Interior, we are resolving an issue that I want to think will create quite different data, that many civil servants will be able to find themselves in the field of justice, perhaps facing the biggest problem that we have described in this debate. Didn't any of you see that? Because comments I didn't hear from anyone. I have, however, heard comments on the fact that, as President of the Anti-Counterfeiting Authority, he may be also a senior prosecutor in his office. The study by Mr. Xanthopoulou and SYRIZA in general does not simply surprise me, nor does it of course make me think second-hand about how flexible your consistency is when you try to find alliances where you are once rivals. Here is a real issue, which we need to see together a little. What's that? Do you not want to extend the pool of potential candidates to this principle? I say this because the experience and competence of senior judicial officers do not think that it can be called into question, ladies and gentlemen. I do not think anyone can say today that the current supreme prosecutors are people who are lacking in knowledge, in experience, in the confidence that the Greek state must have. But, on the other hand, on the one hand there is no obligation, is there either one or the other, on the other hand, I wanted you to tell me the following: All the previous period when SYRIZA was in the government and gave the opportunity to honor the supreme judges, whether they be presidents in the ADP either on the Radio Council or on the Personal Data Protection Authority or on the ADAP, did he make a mistake? Because if there is no confidence in the particular persons, who are currently running the most important constitutionally guaranteed principles of the Greek state, it will obviously have to be a matter of broader discussion. And as the New Democracy Parliamentary spokesman has said to you, this is unfortunately an indirect attack on the validity, integrity and adequacy of today's current and future judiciary. So let us not make such rapid crises before at least some things are heard and discussed. The curiosity that you show up on is what I understand. He's in a reasonable opposition. Whatever it sounds like, whatever it is proposed, it will obviously have to create the word or the opposite. I understand that. But saying things which, to a very large extent, may cost or raise questions about the validity and adequacy of senior judicial officers and tomorrow, I think it is an issue that concerns us all. Either we believe in the role and real potential of these people, so they can be at any start, or otherwise from there we have to go into another logic, which could probably lead us somewhere else. Ladies and gentlemen, I have said this too many times. The effort of changes and reforms, especially in the area of justice, is not a conquest either of today's government or of the current leadership of the Ministry of Justice. It is a conquest that concerns people who serve justice. It concerns the judicial officers, it concerns the judicial officers, it concerns the co-operatives of justice, the entire legal world which also gives its own struggle and its own battle. In fact, all this effort is about the Greek society itself. Justice is not a place - I have said it again - nor those who serve it or those who for certain reasons are close to it. It is the place, it is the pillar that must operate for society itself and for all citizens. That is what we need to keep through our own debates and through the effort to complete the drafting of bills in the Greek Parliament when we talk about bills of the Ministry of Justice. I would like to thank all of you because, despite the tension that has been today due to the debate on the amendments, I believe that the debate on the relevant parliamentary committees has enabled us all to reconcile a bill which, as I said earlier, I personally believe is one of the important reformist steps that will actually revive and, of course, create a rule concerning the area of judicial officers, but it is more generally about the area of justice. Good Easter, me too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u290	The debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Justice is closed: 'Code of Justice'. We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles, the amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. The vote shall include the beginning of the bill, two hundred and thirty-four articles, eight amendments, the office article and the whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u291	The rapporteurs and the special speakers are requested to submit to the Bureau documents with their votes in order to be included in the official minutes of the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u292	On completion of the vote, the draft law of the Ministry of Justice: ‘Code of Judiciary and other urgent provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate on the articles as a whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u293	I would ask the House to empower the Bureau to ratify the minutes of this sitting in its entirety.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u294	Authorization has been provided. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-22-S1-commons.u295	With the consent of this House at 19.47 the sitting is closed tomorrow 23 April 2021 at 9 a.m. on the subject of this House's work: a topical and urgent debate.
