ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-16-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's 15-7-2021 authorisation, PHSEN's minutes were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau on Thursday, July 15, 2021, with regard to the vote on the entire draft law: ‘(a) Incorporation into Greek legislation of Directives (EU) 2017/2455, (EU) 2019/1995 and (EU) 2018/1910 with regard to obligations arising from value added tax for services and sales of goods remotely and related regulations - (b) Amendments to the Act. (c) Provisions for the adjustment of debt and the provision of a second chance - Amendments to the Act. 4738/2020 and other provisions’]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House. [[They are announced to the House by the Secretary of Parliament, Rallia Christidou, MP, B3' South Athens, the following:]] [[A. PRESENTATION OF REFERENCES]] [[To enter page 2a]] B. REQUIREMENTS OF SUPPORT IN BUILDERS
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-16-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, before entering the topical and urgent debate, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent debate on Monday 19 July 2021. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question under number 931/6-7-2021 by MP I Athens of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr.Nikolaos Friend to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "A major step towards the regression of the school of social sciences and artistic education from high school". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question under number 930/5-7-2021 by MP B1' North Athens of the Change Movement Mr. Andreas Loverdos to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: "Collection of the murder of Sifi Valyrakis". 3. The question asked by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Tourism, on the subject: "Navy Zakynthos, a constant violation of the public interest". B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 933/7-2021 by MP B3' in the South Athens area of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr.Ioannis Mousala to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Repeal of the decision to interrupt the newspapers of the "Asclipio" Voula hospital." 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Under number 941/12-7-2021, a topical question by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: "The need for the complete and reasonable conclusion of the death of Zefi Valyrakis remains unresolved". 3. The Question No 938/11-7-2021 by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Political Mount: an hour for defending its public and forestry character". 4. Under number 936/9-7-2021, a topical question by MP B3' South Athens, SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr.Theanos Fotou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "In the air you continue to remain hundreds of thousands of children and families for the voucher programme of creativity stations, creativity centres (CIDA) and Creative Employment Centres for Children with Disabilities (CIDA), while with unacceptable legislation, which you are issuing undermining the full-day school and creating Creative Employment Centres (CIDA) and two-speed workers." 5. Question No 942-12-7-2021 by Mr Kegeroglou, Member of the Commission with special responsibility for Agriculture and Rural Development, on the subject: "At the same time, we are dealing with the problems created by the olive-growers' programmes". 6 The question by number 943/12-7-2021 of the current question by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The prevalence of the Greek Defence Systems (ESA) continues." 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The Question by Mr Kegeroglou, Member of the Commission, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Registration of damage caused by high temperatures in agricultural crops and direct support measures for producers". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 6177/21-4-2021 by SYRIZA MEP - Progressive Alliance Evangelos Apostolos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Dirk deterioration of the General Hospital - Health Center (G.N.). - P.S.A.) Cucumber’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Installation of new renewable energy sources (EPC) in Crete". 3. The question and application under number 6650/608-17-2021 by SYRIZA MEP - the Progressive Alliance Mr Christos Giannoulis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Deposit of the value assessment report of the Greek Urban Transport Agency (OSTH) in accordance with Article 25 of Law 4482/2017". 4. The question by No 6633-17-2021 of SYRIZA MEP - Progressive Alliance Mr Socrates Famelou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The only strategy of the PPC Government and the energy sector is the constant burden on consumers". We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS Mr Stelios Koutnatzis, Secretary-General of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs, informs us of the current questions of today's sitting, as you have been distributed. We begin with the first under No 932-7-2021 topical question by MP B1' North Athens Department of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Konstantinos Zachariadis to the Minister of the Interior, on "Selection of administrations in the public sector". The Minister for the Interior will answer Mr. Mavroudis Voridis. Mr. Zachariadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-16-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I would first like to thank you, because whenever I have asked you a question, you are always here and immediately, not something else that, when they are asked, are missing, disappear, unreasonable days come and never answer the questions to which they have an institutional obligation to answer. And of course I am referring to the parliamentary control that our party does at the time of the Prime Minister, but on the Prime Minister's time the Prime Minister is never on time and in place. Mr Vorides, Mr Mitsotakis and you, as the relevant department leader at that time, were pro-electionally saying that if New Democracy wins - and won - you will bring in a framework of excellence, worthy of sovereignty, the dismantling of public administration. Never before has anyone ever made fun of so many for so much. I must acknowledge that. What happened after that? Just the vice versa of what you said in the election: the state's staffing with "blue" children, bypassing the ADP, directly positioned with no crisis, launching a number of posters, direct assignments. And as if that were not enough, you brought a system of selection of administrations, while you had already served the administrations of legal persons governed by public law with "your own children", and that is a law which, in our view, is "frozen". You have recently stated that this law applies properly. So I ask you how many administration selection notices have been issued, in accordance with the provisions of Law 4735 of 2020, how many Presidents, Vice-Presidents, Governors, Deputy Governors, Vice-Presidents, managers, directors or appointed consultants have been appointed by the same provisions and by which appointment decisions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Ten more seconds, Mr President. Also, what is the timetable for implementing the existing provisions of the legislation in relation to the choice of administrations of legal persons? I say this because two years now you have done absolutely nothing, you are a free reformer, you vote laws and you appoint only your friends and friends, and I want and want to see the Greek people demanding and demanding concrete evidence. It is emblematic, and what you did in the EMCDDA that you did not draw up a notice and direct the position, you said you would make a worthy placement. Finally, I'm moved, Mr. Voridis. Mr. Bini made it through this terrible competition. Congratulations! If that's the model you're going for all the public, really what can I say? If they understand what you're doing in Europe, there's gonna be a serious problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-16-S1-commons.u4	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-16-S1-commons.u5	Mr Zachariadis, first of all, thank you for recognising consistency. As you know, for me the parliamentary procedure, the House as a whole, the MPs are extremely important institutions and among them parliamentary control is of particular importance. By coming to your question, the question is primarily and primarily addressed to the AACC and, secondly, to the Government. I'll explain why. As you know, in accordance with the procedure provided for in the law, the one who proclaims the positions is the AACC. Therefore, allow me criticism we must always incorporate it within a framework of comparison of events. For example, in your case of SYRIZA governance, I would remind you that the Minister and the secretary responsible have drawn it up. At the moment the notice is drawn up by the AACC. This is a huge change. Well, let me not remind you that, also because you're talking about them, but, really, you're opening up matters that don't interest SYRIZA, in your case, in the notices on the positions of the administrative secretaries, you've had to cancel one third of the notices as photographic. I was here and I remember a proclamation - you may have been, Mr President, and you, I do not know if you remember - which mentioned a specific professional service, and, in particular, that in all other cases, it was a precondition for someone to know the Russian language. So that was on your day. That is why I say that here you must come with applause to any criticism you want to make of these things. What did I tell you? I told you that the law is actually fully implemented. What does the law provide for? Does the law stipulate that since the implementation of this system, when is the application of this system? -, in October 2020, from that moment on, the law applies. How does the law apply? It shall apply because this procedure of notices is initiated. And I told you, then, that the law is fully implemented. And to tell you exactly what you're asking me. For which legal persons have there been notices on the part of the AACC at the moment? I stress that you are now asking the AACC because the public's responsibility lies only with the request to initiate a contract notice. As soon as this request has been submitted, this procedure shall commence. The APA, therefore, has issued and posted four calls for expressions of interest. He has the invitation of interest to the Executive President of the EEAS. This procedure is at the stage of examining the fourteen objections raised against the default tables. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Do I have some time, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-16-S1-commons.u6	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-16-S1-commons.u7	He has issued a call for the selection of the President of the Board of Directors of the Athenian News Agency. This process has been completed with the posting of the three candidates table and its mission to the supervising agency Secretary of State to Prime Minister Theodore Livano. He has issued a call for the selection of the President of the Naval Abstract Fund. This procedure is at the stage of the submission of requests for participation by interested parties with a deadline for the submission of applications and supporting documents from 30-06-2021 to 19-07-2021. And he has issued a call for the selection of the President and Vice-President of OPEKEPE. For that procedure, a deadline for the submission of applications and supporting documents has been set for the period from 12-07-2021 to 30-07-2021. In addition to this, there have been requests from forty-four bodies to issue a relevant call of interest concerning the selection of sixty-nine persons as Presidents, Vice-Presidents, Governors, Deputy Governors, Vice-Presidents, Vice-Presidents, and commandees and appointed. Because you also asked me about the EMCDDA, this procedure has also been initiated for the EMCDDA. So this procedure is being applied, it is under way. I will say what, in my opinion, is what we need to think again, because there are indeed open issues here in relation to this process, but these in secondary terms.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-16-S1-commons.u8	Thank you very much. Mr. Zachariadis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-16-S1-commons.u9	We have some for dentistry too, Mr Vorides, so that the opposition cannot comment on your fine ideas! Next time you're in the Opposition, I'll do that to you too to see what's nice.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-16-S1-commons.u10	It's a good tactic!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-16-S1-commons.u11	Yes, I agree, smart! I can't say, in tacticalism, you're number one! According to Mr Vorides, it is not Mr Vorides himself, Mr. Theodorikos, it's not Mr. Gerapetritis' fault, and obviously it's not Mr. Mitsotakis' fault. Who's to blame? S.A.P.L.D. He came here, spoke about four minutes and made a comparison of what SYRIZA did with what New Democracy did, as Mr Vorides saw. Eighty general directors and hundreds of directors were selected via ASP by SYRIZA. Everyone knows that in public administration. What I asked you, Minister, is what the New Democracy was saying in an election on these issues and what it is doing post-elections. I didn't ask you what SYRIZA did, what PASOK did, what the Samara government did, what the Karamanlis government did, what the Sheite government did. I didn't take you there. For inconsistency of words and works I blame you. If you tell me, then, that hundreds of organisations have come out of four notices, you understand that there is a very serious problem, even if at best I was well-qualified. So I expect you to listen to your dentistry, and I ask you to include something else in your answer, which is not close to the question, but is absolutely timely. Last week I understand that the New Democracy People's Orthodox Alarm has been entrusted with the political task of intimidating, terrorizing and punishing a part of the Greek society that belongs to an area with which I disagree, those who have not decided whether or not they want to be vaccinated and are looking for it. They have their doubts and their questions. And instead of trying to convince these people, to embrace them, to explain them, to come to them and to tell them that at the moment the most effective way of managing the pandemic is to vaccine, that they must be vaccinated to protect their families and their friends, we start and we terrorise them and we tell them "I will fire you", "I will put you on holiday", "I will do the other." Why do you have such vengeance, stubbornness and sorrow with society? Do you not understand that these educational and explanatory methods of the 1950s and the '60s have failed? Aren't you watching, Mr. Voridis, the conversation around the rest of the world, and the thought that comes in? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] How do you get in this light and with so much sloppy on such sensitive issues? Do you not understand that, instead of pulling them with us, on the side of the vaccinated, on our side that we support the values of science, of good reason and documentation, is the real risk of pushing them across, on what we have seen and were dangerous the other day in the square? I therefore propose that you withdraw this splitting, punishing, terrorist and appalling speech, because I say to you well enough that it will produce the exact opposite results that you declarably want to serve. We should campaign, update, go together to show the world what is going on by health conditions someone who has been sick by COVID, such as that he can't get up from bed to the toilet, can't climb two steps and that he's all alone. All these things should be projected. There are not only media in the country to say how effective and efficient it is you and how much "Moses" is Mr Mitsotakis! We should explain to this world and take him with us and not show him. If you have any redundancies fetish, not you personally, can the Prime Minister ever since he was Minister for Administrative Reform, know he's going to break out on society and on the pandemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-16-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr. Zachariadis. Here, Minister, you have the floor for dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-16-S1-commons.u13	I shall try to close the main issue which brought us here today and say half a word about what Mr Zachariadis raises outside. In order to close this issue, then, we should simply link the situation a little with the previous ones. Previously, there was actually an experience from the SYRIZA side. Besides, that's why I put it. Because our legislation, but also our election commitments, have a dialectic one. No one's legislating in the void. Legislation based on the experience of what has happened. You had, therefore, brought a law that foresaw what was provided for and resulted in photographic notices being issued that were being invalidated. So we were in the face of this situation in the photographic notices, which I would remind you again that, at the time, you had declared it as an important step towards dismantling and dismantling the administration, so that we could take a picture of who speaks Russianly to take the place and cancel one third of the positions of the European Union. In fact, I think that it would lead to even more posts being cancelled if they knew the biographics, which had actually been photographed in the contract notice. So we left from this and indeed in October 2020 we legislated a new system. This new system you tell me has not been implemented. I tell you it applies. You say to me, "You know, it's not your fault, but there's an issue in the ADP". That's not what I told you. I told you S.H.I.E.L.D. is doing everything it can. But here we come to my remark. This procedure provides for thousands of public bodies to be observed regardless of size. Here, then, is a question and a thought. Can the AACC cope with this administrative burden? Because here for one position - it is not simple - many applications are being submitted. The process is heavy. So that requires too many things. In my opinion - and here we need to open a debate, which I am saying directly - we need to find a way to speed up the process and make it effective in order to get to the point. However, as the terms of the mandates are due to expire, the AACC does not currently have the infrastructure to cope with this, but neither can we overarm the structure of the AACC, make the structure of the AACC gigantic. So that is what should lead to a major thought. So I am telling you my concern about the administrative burden. However, as far as the procedure is concerned, the procedure has begun. Now, with regard to the other things you have said, listen to something, Mr Zachariadis. Your party must make a simple placement. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Mr. President, do I have some time? Although it's out of the question, I leave it to your judgement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-16-S1-commons.u14	Mr Voridis, I have said once again that according to Rule 129, the timely questions must be specific and the answers only concern the subject. This is not now about Mr Zachariadis nor about you. But everyone here is expanding this issue to other questions and there is a more general debate, so we are delaying. Keep going, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-16-S1-commons.u15	If you have a weakness, Mr. Voridis, I have no problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-16-S1-commons.u16	I don't have a chance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-16-S1-commons.u17	But that cannot be because we are wasting time and there is another committee to meet. Mr. Chacloglu, too, has another job in the Ministry and he has to leave. This work can't be done!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-16-S1-commons.u18	Unlike you, I have respect for the institution of the parliamentary procedure and I ask the President's permission to allow me to answer you, because the question is out of the question. So, without his permission, I can't.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-16-S1-commons.u19	This remark is not about Mr Zachariadis nor about you, Minister. It is a more general observation. As I have said in the Conference of Presidents, this is not the case. As the article says, the questions must have at most two questions in particular, clear and some, so that the Minister can answer them. This is not a case here, but a case in general. For example, Mr Tsakloglu now has a very important job in the Ministry and he sits patiently and waits half an hour while we should have finished in a quarter. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-16-S1-commons.u20	So I answer very quickly on this issue. Mr Zachariadis, listen, because everything must be beginning, middle, end and rational, and, above all, your thoughts, even though I know that you have a great deal of difficulty in SYRIZA. But you have to try it. Are you in favour of the mandatory vaccination of certain professional groups? Yes or no. That's where it all starts. You have said 'yes'. If you have said 'yes' then the second question comes: Since we are going to establish the obligation, which means that we will have a legal rule, is there a sanction for the person who fails to comply with his legal obligation? It's just things, Mr. Zachariadis. Obligation without sanction makes no sense. If you have any opinions, we shall hear them. But what will be the sanction? We have talked about health and it is clear that compulsory vaccination is not enough. They handle patients. They can't be vaccinated. It is not possible for an unvaccinated person to enter an ICU to handle a patient, to provide health services to a patient who is in this fragile condition. So, since we agree on this - we are talking about health workers and those who care for elderly people - you have to tell me then that the one who, despite the legal obligation, is not going to comply is validated or has not? We have therefore said that sanctions are, in the first place, suspension. What exactly means job suspension, what it means is that he will not be paid a wage, what it means is that he is in breach of his legal obligations and therefore of his employment relationship, all this will be regulated by law. But now I understand the political difficulty you have. You saw that there was an uninvasive gathering from outside, you must appeal as an Opposition to this electorate - a small one, as long as it is, but you want to address - and you are trying to step on two boats now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-16-S1-commons.u21	They support you, Mr. Voridis. They're your friends.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-16-S1-commons.u22	Did you see how far we got out of this?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-16-S1-commons.u23	I don't know if they're friends or enemies. I know that, Mr Zachariadis, I and the government have a clear position.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-16-S1-commons.u24	Don't we?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-16-S1-commons.u25	Would you like to take a clean seat too so that we can finish it and stop fishing in the cloudy waters? We are waiting for your clear position on these issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-16-S1-commons.u26	We will now catch to analyse the white rules of law here. He's had to answer the minister. In other words, but clearly, he told us what the 'white rules of law' are. Thank you both very much. We enter the debate of the first under No 6122/20-4-2021 question of the circle of petitions by the MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs on the subject: "To renew the contract with the Municipality of Phaistos and continue its operation of the OAED Response Office at the city hall in Moires". The Deputy Minister for Labour and Social Affairs will answer Mr Panagiotis Tsakloglou. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-16-S1-commons.u27	Mr President, parliamentary work and, in particular, parliamentary control are a very serious institution and contributes to better governance in this area. Therefore, it is just as important a job that we do here with the work that the Minister will then do to his ministry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-16-S1-commons.u28	That is what we agree on.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-16-S1-commons.u29	We have an issue today in the context of the wider public service as it is understood to be a public obligation. Citizen Service Centres have opened the way and the integrated services from them can, together with the development of technology and the use of the resources of the Recovery Fund, give a much better result in modern times. However, there are services aimed at citizens who do not have access to digital technology, to citizens who are in remote areas, and the service that is being done today through various services and institutions cannot be stopped without the completion of these policies that have to do with the Recovery Fund and the service of the citizen. I'm specific. The OAED institutional framework allows for the conclusion of a programme contract with municipalities of outermost regions and islands in order to serve citizens. The Municipality of Faistou was one of the municipalities that had concluded a programme contract with OAED for the benefit of the unemployed, as well as the beneficiaries of OAED and people who wanted any information they wanted, through the correspondent in the Municipality of Faistos all the necessary actions. That was how it was served perfectly, without any problem. I note that the function of the correspondent in the municipality, on the basis of the programme contract and the law that it provides for, does not affect the OAED. Here, then, we have a case where the municipality has an employee, has an infrastructure, has a roof, it has worked for many years, it is calling for the renewal of the contract, but the administration of the OAS refuses it without question. The only justification in my reply yesterday is that "you know, the head of the NPV2 did not consider the operation of the office appropriate". It does not invoke the documentation, but 'no'. I think that the political leadership should bring the issue back to the OAED, re-examine and conclude the contract until it is possible to serve citizens in a different way. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-16-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Mr. Chacloglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-16-S1-commons.u31	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would also like to thank Mr Kegeroglu. First of all, I would like to agree with Mr Kegeroglu on the importance of parliamentary control, which I think was in no way questioned by the Bureau. I would like to make it clear that this question was tabled in writing, as was two similar questions, by Mrs Konnakas, Mrs Manolakos and Mr Synthraki and by Mr SYRIZA. Although all three questions were tabled about the same time, the two were answered and digitally signed by the Minister of Labour on May 17th, and your own mistake was only signed on Monday, July 12th and as far as I can see, it has already been posted on the website of the Parliament. So first an apology for suffering. I now come to the essence of your question. As you say in your question, on the basis of programme contracts by 31/12-20, the OAED Response Office operates in Moires in order to meet the service needs of the insured in the area due to the km away from the services of the Employment Promotion Centre in Heraklion. The Municipality of Phaistos, on the relevant decision of the municipal council, informed the Regional Directorate of Crete of its request to renew the programme contract with OAED for the operation of a Office meeting the Municipal Unit of Municipalities and for the year 2021. The competent regional management of the OAED communicated in a document to the management of the Agency that due to the application of the new electronic procedures for the service of insured persons by electronic applications to which the unemployed themselves may have access, it is not necessary for the Office to continue operating in response to the Municipal Unit. However, since the relevant area is mainly a rural and possibly a significant part of the insured not to have a high familiarity with electronic means, a contract with the municipality was proposed for the first quarter of 2021 with the aim of the correspondent in this period to inform the insured persons of the area in order to ensure that the services are switched to digitalisation as smoothly as possible for the population of the region. This renewal was indeed made and lasted from 1-1-2021 until 31-3-2021. Mr. Kegeroglu, I understand the spirit of your question. However, I hope that you, too, understand - and you have suggested it in your position - that the digitalisation of services is done in the interests of the citizens and not at their expense. The aim of digital services is not to exclude citizens from the services but to facilitate their access to them, by exempting them from bureaucratic obstacles and diseases of the past. Take the huge success of our country in planning and implementing the vaccination programme. All this has made it possible because of the digital technology and the tools it provides us. The OAED has managed to respond with flexibility and adaptability to the new needs created and to implement rapid emergency measures, triggering new employment and training programmes, exploiting technology and implementing innovative practices. He has thus managed to perform his role as one of the main pillars of the social state and to strengthen the social protection net. In fact, in recent months, the digital transition has spectacularly accelerated, ensuring citizens' uninterrupted service and protecting public health. New services such as digital dating through myOAEDlive platform and the electronic declaration of the presence of subsidised unemployed have been added to the organisation's digital toolbox that is constantly expanding with new tools and new capabilities. Because the specific service I have just mentioned is entirely related to your question about the need for citizens to continue serving, the myOAEDlive digital platform the citizen can book and be served by teleconference by a specialised OAS official. The OAED, in cooperation with the General Secretariat of Information Systems, has developed and developed this tool for the care of the unemployed and businesses, initially including advisory services and with a view to adding other services in the immediate future. The use of myOAEDlive is particularly simple, without requiring high digital skills. In this program on the Gov.gr platform, the citizen can be informed of the services provided and using personal TAXISnet codes to select the service he is interested in, the date and time he wishes to serve. Apart from facilitating citizens who do not have access to local services, because of COVID restrictions -19 or because of myOAEDlive's distance, myOAEDlive aims to make its services accessible to citizens who either do not know Greek or belong to vulnerable social groups, i.e. people with disabilities, disabilities, etc. In this context and in cooperation with the Foundation of Deafos, it is already possible to interpret the Greek sign language and, in cooperation with the Ionian University and other non-State bodies, to interpret other languages. In other words, digitisation does not mean blocking and blocking, on the contrary, means integration and enlargement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-16-S1-commons.u32	Mr. Kegeroglu has the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-16-S1-commons.u33	With all due respect, Mr President, the answer was for another question. I asked specific questions and wanted a concrete answer. Services to OAED correspondents, who have no cost to OAED through the municipality, relate to an area that is sixty km away from the nearest OAED service and of course concerns people of compulsory education, workers, migrants who are legally related to OAED, because they work in the area's greenhouses and, of course, people who, in the systems mentioned by the Minister, cannot have access. In other words, it leads these people with the closure of the OAED office in the municipality, to being addressed to individuals, and that is obviously not the case at most. I think it is clear here that this is a huge slip of the OAED, which without euros can serve people who are related to it and do not want it. Explanation is not given! Now let's go to what you said about the digital transition. The digital transition, according to the Recovery Fund, will be completed or taken a serious step after four years. EUR 69.4 million of what was announced yesterday relates to the narrow core of public bodies and the service of citizens from them. And another 100 million for various services. What you said to us and what the OAED says in his written answer. That within three months - the first quarter, says, 2021 - citizens were informed about digital services and the digital transition, so there is no longer a need for the correspondent or the service office in Moires, Faisto and Mesara to operate. There's no need! After they got up to date in three months? If that is the case, then, can you tell me why to give 160 million to the completion of these services? Why give them up? Do you think it's free money that goes to something that doesn't have to be? On the other hand, I support the fact that the transition to the digital age is still on the way, that the first substantial step has been taken, but there must be no gap between the current system and tomorrow's system, especially for people who have or experience the digital divide. How do we do it? There's also this charge of people. What are you telling them? Go to the accountant, go to a private person, beg another to do this service that they need. While making it free for the OAED, the municipality, through the programming contract. Why do you cling to a newsletter sent to you by the OAED administration to justify his unnoticed decision and you don't say anything different, see if he can review it and continue to provide the services after the municipality is available? Why, that kind of dystocia? I don't get it. It is unexplainable, Minister, to accept this document sent to you by the OAED. Indeed, we do not need parliamentary scrutiny, that we will go directly to the agencies, that we will be sent a document to answer and end. No, it's not like that. Parliamentary control says that the Minister looks more closely at the issue of the people who respond in this way. That's what I think we should do. I have changed too many times from the position you are in, when colleagues have raised the matter and they have indeed been right. Because neither an employee nor a agency closely reflects a policy of civil service in general. It's a big deal! That is why I referred to the role of parliamentary control at first, and I think you should consider it, Minister. I do not want to consider the answer given that the digital transition has been achieved. All citizens have access to digitals now, so that's not necessary. I would ask you very much to consult the OAED to review this decision, which is undisturbed and unjustified.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-16-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Mr. Undersecretary has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-16-S1-commons.u35	Thank you again, Mr President. Mr Kegeroglu, contrary to what you say, my answer in my narrative was very specific. Obviously, I don't blame you for lureism, but we have heard such objections on several occasions. From the digital submission of our tax declarations to the digital vaccination platform, such objections have always been heard. If we were to follow this practice, we'd still be handwritten. The second is that the digital upgrade...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-16-S1-commons.u36	What do you think? You're a Minister of Finance? We're talking about the OAED.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-16-S1-commons.u37	What are you talking about? You are now telling me about a digital process and I am replying to you about digital processes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-16-S1-commons.u38	Mr. Kegeroglu, please don't interrupt. This is the answer of the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-16-S1-commons.u39	I did not ask the Minister of Finance, I asked the Minister of Labour.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-16-S1-commons.u40	Everybody's judged. He'll be judged. And those who listen to us will judge. Please. Here you go, Mr. Undersecretary, continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-16-S1-commons.u41	I am talking about digital procedures and I insist on them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-16-S1-commons.u42	Because you loaded them to the accountants, that's why.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-16-S1-commons.u43	Please, there's no dialogue...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-16-S1-commons.u44	The project of digital upgrade, which Mr Kegeroglu also mentions, no one said that it was done with a button. It is a process that is gradual and continuous and one of its steps is that. And as I will prove in a moment, it is a very important step. One last thing, Mr. Kegeroglu. Obviously, if I were to agree with that view you have put forward, I would not have given the answer that I am currently giving. I do not get exactly what the agency gives me, I assess it, and I reply accordingly. After all, in previous questions, you had seen similar examples of writing. We are now going to answer that question. I understand that changes often scare and trouble many citizens. Indeed, it may be difficult for some of them to move to the digital age. That is why these steps are being taken gradually. Let us also not forget that the OAS's central administrative structures remain open throughout the territory and can serve citizens at all times in the natural presence. But that is not the way to change the Greek public administration. All these years we have been demanding of the state - and I think we rightly demand - to find ways to produce high-level services for citizens, to relieve them of unnecessary bureaucracy, to reduce the cost of production of public services without degrading their quality. From the point of view of using public electronic services to public administration in our country over the past year and a half, we have literally had a huge leap forward. According to official data from the Centre for Interoperability of the General Secretariat of Public Administration Information Systems, only in the first half of 2021 were hundreds of fifty million electronic transactions. This figure is impressive, especially considering that the corresponding figure for the whole of 2018 was only eight million transactions. Our country has carried out all these months, within so many adversities, a digital leap necessary not only for the reorganisation of public administration, but also for the country's overall operation at the level of attraction of investment but also for the rest of the economy, and we will obviously continue in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-16-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, too. We are now moving on to the third under number 939/11-7-2021 in the first cycle of MP B2' Western Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "Seventh victim of kidnapping, rape and mastroopia experience illegal treatment by the Greek Police and the Internal Affairs Directorate". The State Secretary for Civil Protection, Mr. Eleftherios Economou, will answer. We are now not criticising, but the content of the question is purely confidential, and it concerns the investigating authorities. Here, Mr Arsenis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-16-S1-commons.u46	Thank you very much, Mr President. No, it's not about the investigating authorities. I will be very clear in this regard. It concerns the procedures followed in the departments, the Ilioupoli Police Department and the Internal Affairs Directorate. I'm going to mention exactly what the lawyer, the 17-year-old lawyer, said. He says that the girl is sitting in the department with also the lawyer, Mr. Yannis Mykognatis. We're talking about the Elioupolis Department, where the story started. And he's sitting from 13:00 to 18:00 the hour without anyone getting a statement. They're just sitting. "At 18.00, they suddenly put the girl in a patrol car and take it to the Home Affairs Directorate. I come too, considering that we can go in to see the child." And it clarifies the procedure, that only when the plaintiff submits a statement is alone, and at any other time she is always with her lawyer or lawyer. "The girl from 6 p.m. to 6 p.m. is disappearing for us," says the lawyer "until 1.00" at night. We are forbidden to enter, we are forbidden to see it." The answers are that the agency is experienced, knows in short, they don't need all these constitutional rights for lawyers. Mrs Legaki, the lawyer, has another characteristic example. When she demands and tells the police officer that she should see her client saying that she is a political plaintiff and should exercise her rights, then the policeman responds to the lawyer "he did not tell us that she was holding a political appeal performance". "How can the victim of trafficking tell you from her eleven, the eighteen-year-old, when you have banned her from having an attorney with her?" the lawyer's answering. And when he told him he had to go to the hospital because he was beaten, the cop responded "he didn't tell us he wanted a hospital". At another point, the lawyer reveals that about 0.45' at night calls for a millennium and says that "this child testifies to the police for a 12-hour period, is a beating victim, pressure to get drugs and extradition, and you're looking at it for a 12-hour period. This is torture". And when he suggested that the cops go to the hospital and the people in charge of taking a statement there, as long as the doctors allow it, the answer was that the statement is over. He's asking for access. They tell her "in five minutes you'll have access". In the five-minute period they put her in a car and they vanish her, so we can find out after that she arrives at the "General Hospital" where for another six hours there are doctors now, escorting the police, even when she needs to take off her clothes, this is being accompanied by the police, even when she testifies to the doctors, she becomes an escort to the police. And when asked by doctors - and there is a last name complaint from the doctor who examined her, the Silver Question Crisis Hospital - the police are telling her that she is in custody and that is why she has to be with her. Because all this is incomprehensible and there is a shadow heavy on you and on the Government that you tried to cover up this case and only when they received the publicity light you could not cover it and you started moving, we really want you to tell us the procedure that was followed, how the 36th of 2011 directive incorporated into a government law in 4198/2013, which provides for the protection of victims of human trafficking in human beings in the context of criminal investigation and procedure, was respected. And I want you to tell us what you found in this management and what you will change the next day or, otherwise, if you accept everything as well as a well-being, i.e. that the police are above the laws in the procedures for examining the victims and that they can keep a citizen and prohibit access to a lawyer, beyond the process of testimony, when he actually comes to the department to file a complaint. Please answer the unanswered questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-16-S1-commons.u47	Mr. Secretary, please have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-16-S1-commons.u48	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, these days we are all in the face of a confessed shocking situation, which is still being investigated by the law enforcement authorities and the competent prosecutors. But let me quote, Mr Arseni, that I will not be following you with an acidity of expressions of cover or anything else you have referred to and, of course, I will not mention the procedural part, because they are essentially for first-year students of the Law School and there have been too many inaccuracies, but we will not have lessons of Criminal Procedure in Parliament. Today's debate within the framework of parliamentary scrutiny is designed to provide the necessary information and clarification on the handling of the Greek police services and thus to shed plenty of light on a tragic case which, unfortunately, some people are trying to make public to give it some sort of political dimension. Starting with the first question I would like to give a detailed description of the sequence of events and actions, which will outline the overall responsible and legitimate management of this case by the competent police authorities. At about 14: 10 a.m. last Saturday, July 10, he came to the Security Department Ilioupoli, with another woman witness, while a few minutes later another person came after the witness contacted him. The complainant reported oral criminal offences committed against her by a police officer in breach of the laws: domestic violence, n.3500/2006, regarding addictive substances n.4319/2013 and trafficking in human beings, articles 323 A of the Criminal Code. Given that the complainants were a police officer, the commander of the Security Department in compliance with the applicable provisions and before any other action informed by phone at 14:32' the Internal Security Affairs Service as the incumbent department responsible for criminal investigation, detection and prosecution of crimes committed, among other things, by police personnel. The briefing by the Commander of the Ilioupoli Security Department to the Home Affairs Service lasted until 14:55, while at 15:15 a step came for the receipt of the complainant and the witness. They left Ilioupoli at 15: 35 and arrived at the service's headquarters at 16: 30. At 19: 15, the complainant's sworn testimony under Articles 183 to 187 and 228 of the Criminal Code began and lasted for about four hours, in the presence of a psychologist. From the expiry of the Complainant's sworn deposit up to 00: 30' of July 11, 2021, the psychologist referred to above wrote and submitted a report of expert opinion. With regard to the duration of the complainant's stay in the Home Affairs Service, it goes without saying that the handling of such extremely sensitive cases, where the victim is alleged to have suffered years of abuse, psychologically and not only, requires time and appropriate treatment, so that a climate of confidence can develop to a minimum, in order to accurately and fully reflect all the alleged ones, given their seriousness. At 0: 30, the complainant was accompanied by a man and a woman of the service at the General Hospital of Athens "GENNAMAS" in order to undergo the necessary detailed examination. Then he returned again, at 4: 25, at the Home Office. There, she was sworn out for about an hour and a half in addition, something necessary to recognize herself in visual material in which, as she had testified, she was depicted against her will. At the end of the examination, at 6.00 hours, she was transferred to her home, escorted by the police at the Homeland Security Service. In reply to your report, I should like to make it clear in the most emphatic way that the complainant never came into contact with the defendants, since Article 225 of the Code of Criminal Procedure was strictly respected, in conjunction with the relevant provisions. In conclusion, I would like to stress that the complainant has never notified the Home Affairs Service of the desire to appoint a legal representative. However, from 18.25 to 18.40, on July 10, he contacted a lawyer. I would also like to point out here that it has been examined with the sensitivity that the situation was in place. A strong climate of confidence has been created between the passive and the Internal Affairs Service. Now, the case, as you know, lies in the main interrogation, where on the basis of what he has said, is being investigated in depth. You see the investigations are still under way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-16-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, too. Mr Arseni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-16-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, complaints come from her lawyer. They're expressing it. Here, we have a case that still ignores the face of the perpetrator, the offenders, which could release too many complaints. At least for too many days he was hiding that face. The image of the cover is too strong. And that's why the world's on the streets, and that's what it's all about. You presented the story without telling us why the complaint was not recorded in writing at the Iliopolis Police Department. The girl didn't go for coffee. He filed a complaint. Why didn't you record the complaint there? Was it an obligation for the cops to record the complaint or just to hear it and get a phone call to go to another department? Is it their obligation to record this complaint? I'll answer you. As for what you said, whether we're first-year law students is unacceptable. I am a Member of the Greek Parliament and you have an obligation to answer the questions. The rest, please, not within Parliament. You yourself, for one thing, report a four-hour statement. It's too heavy for a victim who needs to go to the hospital to make a four-hour deposit with this procedure. You don't confirm my information that it was a four-hour deposit. In any case, even if we accept what you say, he said that when the testimony ended you continued holding it in the department, forbidden to have access to lawyers. And as her lawyer says, who's an eighteen-year-old order, she kept calling you and told her she can't access, because there's still a statement. And when the testimonial was completed - according to you, because my information is that it lasted an hour - you did not give access to the lawyer. You told the lawyer "yes, yes, now you'll see her" to disappear the girl in the hospital. We have the testimony of the Silver Questionocritus, the doctor who inspected and examined the girl: "The girl came late on Saturday night at the "Genders" Hospital. She was accompanied by police officers with politics. Although she had no handcuffs, the police escorted her everywhere. Whatever happened was with her. This might have affected what she herself told us about what happened to her, which in turn affected the approach we had. In the X-ray section, the girl was asked to enter herself. The cops insisted on getting in together. In my question, therefore, why is this so, if the girl is being held up, their answer was: 'Yes, she is a prisoner'. It is a witness to the newspaper “English SOLIDARITY”. Was she a prisoner, Minister? You didn't tell us. Was the eighteen-year-old prisoner in the hospital? It's a very big police arbitrariness. This narrow surveillance of our girl is making suspicions that there are things they don't want to hear and write or that they've somehow blackmailed the girl not to say things. Just the fact that they couldn't communicate with her says a lot. Do you think only first-year law students have questions in here or even doctors, lawyers and the whole of society? Please respond, because the shadow of the effort to cover, of the failed, on the subject, has been dimensioned and really, it is all on you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-16-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr Arseni. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-16-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, during my initial position through a multitude of elements, the sequence of actions by the relevant departments of the Greek Police has been detailed. I will not go into detail because I told you before that they are elementary things that everyone knows and are fundamental issues about how the preliminary investigation is conducted. In any case, from the point of view of the Commander Security Department, he couldn't get the complaint, because he's not going to get the complaint. Here, serious criminal offences of a malicious nature are being denounced. As a matter of fact, it was the Internal Affairs Service, which was immediately informed and dealt with without delay. Not only has there been no attempt to cover up, but very sensitively, this case is being investigated in depth. You see that apart from the particular perpetrator who at the time was the police officer's complaint and his immediate arrest, the preliminary investigation has been widened in depth and new perpetrators arise. They're other people confiscated. And research at the stage of the main interrogation is progressing in depth, and we hope that we will soon have new data on this tragic case. It goes without saying that at this stage of the main interrogation it is not possible to provide further information, because this, as we all know very well, is contrary to the provisions of the legislature, which dictates, under Articles 241 and 246 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, the preservation of the secrecy of the whole procedure. I would, however, like to stress in the most emphatic way that the services of the Greek Police have acted exclusively within the existing legal framework and with full respect for the provisions of Law 4958 of 2013, which harmonized the Greek legislation with Directive 2011/36 of the European Union on the prevention and fight against trafficking in human beings and the protection of its victims. In particular, the Home Affairs Service of Security Bodies which, as you know, acts under the continuous supervision of the public prosecutors, which ensures that it operates effectively and within the framework of its legality, has acted with due respect for human value and the protection of its rights. The duration of the juror examination, as I said before, is in keeping with the range and depth of the case under investigation. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that this case has shocked us all as a state and as a society, but a case I have heard in the police bulletin and only without any position in the political confrontation between parties. There cannot be any sort of separation between us in dealing with such cases, and more to be politicized. This cannot be accepted and society is being watched together. As for all relevant political offices, it is not understood to be subject to serious political controversy. Despite our ideological differences, all the political forces are free to send out a unique message to the citizens of this society. Unified, with confidence in the law enforcement authorities and in Greek justice, we are all standing together against such hideous incidents. Only in this way can we shape those conditions as a state and as a society, so that our injured fellow men, such as this young girl, can trust authorities and speak. Only so will they be able to heal their wounds, stand back on their feet and look optimisticly at all the future they have before them. We all owe it as responsible political forces of our country to the new generation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-16-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, too, Minister. The first question under number 934/7-2021 will be debated now under the second question of the SYRIZA MP - the Progressive Alliance Mr. Sultanas (Tanyas) Eleftheriadou to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: 'Scandide for protection for the convicted businessman Laurentiadis'. Mrs Eleftheriadou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-16-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, it is now true that the action of organised crime in Greece has taken dramatically, affecting both the international press and the European officials and leaders, although the local media have not highlighted the situation. It is also true that the police departments, the safety departments and the locomotives have been subordinated - complaints have been made by the PDO - because their personnel have been assigned to guard against persons. And when I say "persons", I don't only mean the persons provided for in the laws, but your ministry has recently made police security for teleshoppers and convicted businessmen. And you didn't get the lesson from the Furthite case. It has been known lately in Kavala that the convicted moral automobile in infidelity Laurentiades has been provided. Ten police officers and two Greek police patrols keep on a 24-hour basis the fertiliser factory in Kavala. You understand that this cannot be accepted either by us or by the local community or by the police, who are forced to leave their duties unnecessarily and simply because that is why Mr Chrysochoidis or a member of your Ministry decided. I would therefore ask you to answer clearly whether or not the compost factory from the Greek Police is being kept. Who gave the order for this guard, which is scandalous and for no reason? Watch out, I'm trying to protect you. Do not answer me that because in Athens the offices of ELLAGROLIP were allegedly attacked by Ruvikon you sent to Kavala, because the company "ELLAGROLIP" does not exist within the Kavala plant, has no activity there and does not exist there. Of course, until when will you continue this scandalous guard? I am waiting for your answer and in my dentext I will say more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-16-S1-commons.u55	Thank you too, my colleague, especially for keeping time. Please, Minister, for his prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-16-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, a few months ago an important debate took place within the framework of parliamentary scrutiny on matters relating to the preservation and accompanying of vulnerable objectives. In the same context, the topical and urgent question, which clearly concerns measures to protect the installations, is being raised. So let us see how the evidence answers the two questions put. First of all, with regard to the institutional framework and the decision-making process of police personnel, the framework is clear and follows: The Hellenic Police may, after consulting the relevant committees, have police officers to accompany and guard or monitor vulnerable objectives, at the same time setting out the disposal service and the number of them. The opinion of the committee responsible shall take the form of a risk assessment report taking into account the objective criteria referred to in Article 70(4) d.141/1991 as currently applicable. The decision-making right is held by the Chief of Staff of the Hellenic Police Headquarters, which can be exercised in parallel with the Chief of Staff. Finally, in urgent cases, protection measures may be immediately ordered by the Chief, and then the procedure I have just mentioned is followed. In the matter to which you refer, we have available police personnel and media in the context of increased security measures for the installation and gateway of this facility, after the opinion of the competent committee of the Regional Police Directorate of East Macedonia and Thrace and the command of the Chief of Staff of the Hellenic Police. The reasons for the Greek police's decision to take increased storage measures for this plant and for a certain period of time are easily understood, since we are talking about a fertiliser industrial plant, so storage of a sufficient quantity of chemicals necessary during the production process. In fact, interest but also a number of activist actions, and not only in Kavala, but also in the offices of a company in the Old Faliro, by individuals in the anti-powered area, have been taken into account in order to prevent or prevent these decisions from being taken on the sole basis of the prevention or prevention of activities at the expense of the installation, which would jeopardise the environment, but also the health of the citizens of the region. To conclude my initial position and before I go into data on the aid initiatives of the Kavala Police Directorate, and also on the effectiveness of the current operational planning implemented in the region, I would like to highlight something which, although self-evident, unfortunately is still uncertain, through the content of the current question. The assessment of the availability of or non-military personnel and means, with a view to meeting the needs of accompanying security for persons or for the guarding of vulnerable objectives, shall take into account criteria which are clearly related to safety elements and not to other aspects such as those reflected in the timely question under discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-16-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Minister. Here, my colleague, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-16-S1-commons.u58	Minister, your answer is unacceptable and you obviously do not know the matter and you are simply reading the document you have been given. I would like to ask you to submit the Committee's opinion in the Minutes. Will you do it? You're not answering. So, what you told me is that you protected Laurentiadis at the Laurentis Laurentiadis facility, ten police officers and two patrols, because it's a chemical industry. Chemical industry has been here for tens of years! Now you've given protection? You're telling me you've given protection because there's been an activist power of a company in the Old Faliro. And you gave protection to the Kavala plant. What exactly activistic action did it take? I question her. Nothing happened! That's how you did the Purthite! You gave protection because there were activists in Kavala. What activist actions? Nothing's happened at all. You're lying! You lie and I challenge you to tell me which activist actions have been taken by whom. Right now I'm lying to you! And if not you, the ones who sent you the document. What activist actions have been taken in Kavala? I want an answer!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-16-S1-commons.u59	Please! I didn't refer to Kavala. I said activist actions were taken.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-16-S1-commons.u60	And you told Kavala. You said they were also in Kavala. They're written in the Minutes!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-16-S1-commons.u61	Please withdraw.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-16-S1-commons.u62	I'm not rescinding, they're in the Minutes! You said the company in the Old Faliroe and Kavala. Let's see the Minutes. What if it happened at the company in the Old Faliroe, what happened?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-16-S1-commons.u63	Ladies and gentlemen, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-16-S1-commons.u64	Who's the company in the Old Faliro, and what does it have to do with the Kavala factory? None.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-16-S1-commons.u65	Ladies and gentlemen, please confine yourself to the contents of the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-16-S1-commons.u66	Mr President, I would like to respond to what the Minister said.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-16-S1-commons.u67	Good. And the Minister will answer later. Keep it up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-16-S1-commons.u68	So, I'm telling you, I question that some kind of energy has been done in the Old Faliro, which has to do with the Kavala plant. I doubt that activist actions have been taken in Kavala and, of course, as to whether the plant is a chemical industry, it has been in the process for tens of years. So you provide Greek police coverage to Laurentis Laurentiadis for no reason. This isn't the first time you've been covering him. You provide him with cover for his debts, you provide him with cover for the redundancies of his employees, you provide him with cover to operate the factory, the whole chemical fertilizer industry, with foreign companies with a capital of EUR 24,000 and opaque procedures. At the moment you are providing care to Laurentis Laurentiadis for no reason. I want you to expressly tell me what activist actions have been taken and where. The police aren't your chip! Police sitting twenty-four hours outside the factory have debts to accomplish to Greek society and the Cavalian people. The department is undersubscribed, and you have sent police officers and patrols for no reason. Please tell me what specific activist actions have been taken and where. I'll come back with another question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-16-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, too. Here, Minister, you have all the time to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-16-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr President. I will not follow you in your style, because you are obviously addressing another audience and not Parliament. So I think it proves your style, so I won't watch you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-16-S1-commons.u71	We'll see the Minutes!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-16-S1-commons.u72	As far as the actions you refer to are concerned, there are preliminary investigations in progress and relevant procedurals. In any case, we are not keeping people in custody, as I have said, for a specific period of time in facilities, because this has been judged by the committee responsible. However, in this position I would like to dwell on the message emanating from the Kavala Security Directorate, in one way or the other, that it is supposedly understood with the increase in the sense of civil insecurity. The evidence, therefore, bears witness to something very different. While the total number of posts of this Police Directorate remains stable since 2018, there is a gradual increase in its staffing from 2019 to today, as a result, at the moment we are talking about serving there more than thirty people since 2018. At the same time, as far as Kavala Police Directorate is concerned, a sufficient number of vacancies to be filled in during regular and additional transfers made annually and in relation to other administrations of the local police are concerned. A corresponding interest is reflected also through a grid of permanent initiatives, which we are taking, with the aim of strengthening the logistics infrastructure and the means available to Greek Police officials at this police department. Overall, therefore, between August 2019 and today, thirty-two vehicles of different types, bulletproof vests, thermal cameras, motorcycle helmets, as well as types of service clothing and protection have been distributed. Therefore, it is at least a question of the attempt to outline a picture of alleged government indifference and abandonment to that police department. You will allow me not to follow such an effort, which is the only thing that shows is the constant effort of some to win a game of on-line political impressions, in which they cannot understand that they are the only participants. To conclude, and with regard to invoking demographic portrayals that citizens felt more secure in governance SYRIZA, I would recommend more attention to their reading and study in order to avoid unremarkable findings and conclusions being made.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-16-S1-commons.u73	Thank you very much. The second question under number 935/8-7-2021 of the first cycle of the MP of the Greek Solution Mr. Konstantinos Boubas to the Minister of Development and Investment, on the subject: "Not at the closure of the only bank of the Municipality of Amphipolis" is not discussed due to lack of competence. So we move on to the last for today, namely the second question under number 940/12-7-2021 of a second-round question from MP B2' West Athens Sector of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance of Mr. Charulas (Haras) Kafantaris to the Minister of Civil Protection, on the subject: "The need to strengthen departments for domestic violence by Greek Police (ELAS)". In order not only to say negative, this timely question, Mr Secretary, is complete, brief and clear. After I said something before, we'll have to say the right thing. This must be the timeliness. Here, Mrs. Kafantaris, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-16-S1-commons.u74	Mr President, Minister, it is truly well known that feminine murders, victims, domestic violence, human trafficking and racial violence have increased greatly. That is what they say. I fear - and here we must all have a goal - that we do not become a daily life, because they shock the Greek society. In fact, the last event with the eighteen-year-old in Iliopolis - it is not the issue of timelyness - has once again surfaced how the Greek Police operates, how they deal with these issues and whether it inspires confidence in a victim to go ahead and denounce this. The issues of racial and domestic violence are issues horizontally across all social classes. It is a very deep social issue and as such a deep social issue must be addressed. Many examples in recent years, such as Rhodes, Volos Miles, St. Varvara, West Athens, and recently in Sweet Nera. But this case in Ilioupoli with the ten-year-old, a case that is under way, raised many issues about the functioning of ELAS, but also about the silence of the government. We also heard you in the previous timely question, to which you replied, representing the government and the Ministry. SYRIZA had early and understood this issue, and for that reason in April 2019 he took out the a.d. 37/2019, which concerns the creation of sections of domestic violence within the Greek Police. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr. Chrysochoidis in November 2019, who became Minister of State with New Democracy, said he would strengthen it. But what is the reality, Minister, until today? The reality to date is that these departments are operating as final sections, collecting some statistics. I'd like you to give us the statistics. I appreciate and I know they don't exist. But we are asking for them. I wish there were. The police and the staff working in these departments shall not carry out a preliminary investigation. They keep the statistics like I said. They're also in charge of the Police Department, not the Security Department. You come from the Greek police, you understand the difference, Minister. On 26 November 2020, fifty-three or fifty-six - I do not remember exactly - SYRIZA Members asked a question about these parts. Your ministry's answer was that they work, that the police are training, that nine hundred people have been through some seminars. We are now coming to a timely question by SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance for Racial Violence. The debate also raised the issue - and I personally had raised this issue - what is happening with these departments in the Greek Police. The answer from the Families and Municipal Secretary, of course, was unsatisfactory. He said again, ninety police officers went through seminars, that there is cooperation with the Secretariat-General of Equality, etc. But, Minister, all this had to be done, I had to put the question on Monday at 12 a.m., so that on 14 a.m. Mr. Chrysochoidis - you were also present - in Peristeri to do an event and to announce once again that he would strengthen the departments for domestic violence and that in a Security Department in Peristeri he would make a pilot run for western Athens. On the other hand, however, there has also been this incident in Iliopolis, there has also been a significant development in the European Parliament, where the recommendation to the relevant committees of the European Parliament by Helena Kountoura, our MEP, has been accepted to have a specific policy of the European Union covering the victims of domestic violence, proposing concrete measures for both women and children. And we are really coming now, Minister, and we say: you are late. I believe that it is indeed in a positive direction that the announcement should be strengthened and that these sections should be made. It must be clear, however, that the police workers there are trained, that they are full-time and, anyway, that they can also be able to trust victims to take refuge and that we do not have what we see, as the Ilioupoli case is going on. That is why we would like something more specific and some commitment from your side. I'll tell the rest of it in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-16-S1-commons.u75	Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-16-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the issue raised by this timely question concerns the Ministry of Civil Protection, the Government but also the society in general, not only in the light of the tragic event of the eighteen-year-old in Iliopolis, but through a wider view of a social phenomenon that is extremely worrying. However, this is an issue where there are no political conflicts, but a collective approach from all the political forces of the place, with the aim of protecting, supporting and managing these sad events effectively. I would like to give some clarification of what is being said in this timely question about the subject-matter of the offices for the treatment of domestic violence, as well as the role and responsibilities of the officials of the Greek Police who are serving them. The limitation of the role of the department, but also of the offices dealing with domestic violence at the end of the day, results exclusively from the provisions of the d.d. 37/2019 adopted before the country was governed by New Democracy as you mentioned. Likewise, the subordination of these offices to the staff of the Police Directorates General at Attica and Thessaloniki, the regional police directorates-general and police directorates of the country. With regard to your point of emphasis on their exclusive involvement in issues of prevention and treatment of domestic violence, I would like to stress that the above-mentioned Presidential Decree does not provide for any provision, as no explicit reference is made to them. On the basis of the existing provisions, therefore, the responsibilities allocated to the offices for dealing with domestic violence are not related to the operational response and the exercise of pre-review tasks, which fall within the scope of functions of the police departments of the territory and the security departments. This distribution, which, from the contents of this timely question, I conclude is not the result of a legislative initiative by the current government, but stems from a President-in-Office decree adopted during the previous government's term of office. In order to be objective, however, the Presidential Decree was a good one, and that is why we maintain it, we implement it and we improve it. In any case, however, I recognise that it would not be so easy for these services to receive a purely operational preparedness because there was no suitable qualified police staff to proceed with such operational action. With regard to domestic violence departments of the General Police Directorate of the Hellenic Police Headquarters, as well as to offices operating in local regional police offices, general police offices and police departments of the country, their responsibilities are described in detail in the document I present in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Civil Protection, Mr Eleftherios Economou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Regarding the suitability of personnel serving as a whole in these structures of the Greek Police, who are responsible for dealing with domestic violence, I would like to stress that, although not explicitly provided for in the a.d. 37/2019, at the Headquarters of the Hellenic Police, as well as at the regional level, an effort is being made and has been made to a significant extent to manage them from humanitarian science graduates. At the same time, the aim is to prevent the designated staff from being replaced with a view to the smooth and smooth functioning of the department and the offices handling such a sensitive issue. In conclusion, I would like to point out that the political and physical leadership of the Ministry of Civil Protection, having studied in depth and also noted in the operational field concrete weak points of this Presidential Decree, is already taking the necessary steps to supplement imperfections, but also to remedy these weaknesses, which I shall refer to and then develop my position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-16-S1-commons.u77	Mrs. Kafantaris, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-16-S1-commons.u78	First of all, it is good that you recognise that SYRIZA has taken the initiative to adopt the Presidential Decree on this serious issue, which is not a matter of the last three or five years - racial violence and domestic violence. I say that this was in April 2019 and July, as you know, we had elections. As far as your role as government is concerned, I said it - I said it before - Mr Chrysochoidis from November 2019. Since then, what's happened to this day? Minister, we've been in a long lockdown since last summer. The statistics provided by the Greek Police say that in 2019 - March, April, May - were dealt with by the Greek Police, that is, a thousand, two hundred and seventy people. In the corresponding period of 2020 with the lockdown, which created situations and data say domestic violence increased by 20%, a thousand percent of three people. Less! What does that show? This shows a lack of confidence in a victim or someone who suffers violence - racial violence in the family - to resort to the Police Department. But at the same time, in Lockdown, the calls to the SOS lines - you know that, with the General Secretariat of Equality, etc., which has been created for years and has also contributed to this - fourfold. This is a serious matter and it also appeared on the Ilioupoli case whether it can be trusted and fearlessly a victim can go to the Police Department and ask for refuge. I'll be specific. First of all, qualified personnel. It's not enough for the announcements. Psychologists, social workers. I would say and dare - personally - to a large extent these sections should be served with women. On the other hand, concrete measures that need to be taken from now on on on how these sections are to function and if they were not, as you say, to be questioned, they now have to get into this process. Only in this way, if the police officer - man or woman - in contact with the victim, speaks to him and can direct it to him about what he will do next - are structures, we are talking about hostels, we are talking about all of this, but also in cooperation with the Equality Secretariat - then only will the victim feel - to say so - trust to resort. This great social issue must be tackled and given due weight. I am afraid Mr Chrysochoidis has been doing university police and other teams - 'Panthers', etc. - issues relating to repression, not just the protection and security of the citizen. Because a walk in the police departments - you must know, you come from this House too - are detached from staff. Not for domestic violence, for mere incidents, for patrols to be done in neighborhoods. There's no staff. You got new cars - positive for the fleet to change - but who will lead them? Is there any staff? So not in repression, but in prevention. The issue of domestic violence departments that are faced with racial violence in the family, but more generally it must be a key address and key element of the Greek Police if it really wants to gain the confidence of the world that I am sorry about, but has been seriously shaken. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-16-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, too. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-16-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Mr President. As I pointed out during my initial position, the physical and political leadership of the Ministry of Civil Protection is attempting a chain of combined planning and implementation initiatives based on two main axes. On the one hand, the establishment of specialised offices at that administrative level of police services that will ensure the necessary proximity to local communities, so that victims can be provided with an environment of protection and effective management to trust the appropriately trained police personnel who will be next to them and report incidents of domestic violence on the other hand, enrichment and reinforcement of the message we already empower as a state and, in particular, as a service of the Greek Police. In this direction, following on from the particularly interesting event that took place the day before yesterday, between the Ministry of Civil Protection and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs in Peristeri, which the President of the Republic, Mrs Sakellaropoulos, has honoured with her presence, I would like to inform you of the creation of pilot offices in police stations, where specialised and trained staff will accept complaints and receive the victims of domestic violence. We are thus extending for the first time the specific approach to the phenomenon beyond the task and at the operational level. The process of creating these offices will be launched pilotally in a police department, each Attica police department, while a number of criteria have been taken into account for their selection, including, of course, the number of complaints recorded locally. The first pilot office will be set up in West Attica and more specifically in Peristeri. With regard to the further expansion of the appropriately trained executive capacity of the Greek Police, which will manage orally the cases of domestic violence, important initiatives have been taken to develop educational actions concerning Greek Police officials. I will table a document on the economy next year, reflecting a large number of training for dealing with domestic violence, where our desire for continuing training for police officers in these matters is apparent. But let me briefly mention that ninety-two police officers, seventy-two police officers in the fight against crime and thirty-three service officers attended the HELP training programme of the Council of Europe. Also, forty - four police officers with teleworking attended the new implementation in the tasks of the offices to deal with crimes. Ninety-nine policemen attended special seminars at the European Police College, CEPOL, but details are given in the document I present. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Civil Protection, Mr Eleftherios Economou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] With regard to the first, as I said before, we are developing a wide range of actions aimed at achieving a comprehensive and multi-level information for competent bodies and ministries, as well as for civil society, about the phenomenon of domestic violence across the range of population groups, aimed at convening and dealing together with this phenomenon. In this context, I am tabling another document illustrating such actions, as well as the Greek Police's first annual report on domestic violence in digital format. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Citizen Protection, Mr Eleftherios Economou, submits for the minutes the above document, as well as a digital means of storage (usb stick) with the above mentioned report, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practices.]] Let me mention two or three elements which will make our debate considerably easier. In the cooperation that I have mentioned with the institutions, we have developed concrete actions. In summary, we have signed a cooperation agreement with the Holy Archdiocese of Athens. There was a co-organisation of an online workshop with the Embassy of Great Britain specifically on what you know there is a great deal of experience and know-how to the competent police and institutions of the United Kingdom handling domestic violence. Write part of a manual dealing with the forms of violence against minors of migrants. Participation in an online seminar of the CEPOL European Police College on the protection of minors of migrant refugees from forms of violence. Training of educational materials for lectures in school communities, which is ready and is due to be approved by the Ministry of Education in order to be able to be taught in schools. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the phenomenon of domestic violence, as well as its effective response, are a good reason why all the political forces in the country along with society should be up against the victims who have experienced or still experience such traumatic experience. Allow me, too, at this point to tell you that statistics for 2019-2020 show that in 2019 a percentage of 85% are perpetrators of men and a percentage of 15% are women. With regard to victims, based on 2019 figures, 75% are women and 25% are men. In 2020, we have 82% men and 18% women and victims 73% women and 27% men. We also note that 2020 has a hundred ninety-two more incidents, which have been reported and reported to police authorities, compared with 2019. We are trying to analyse the reasons in detail. One part is due to the conditions in which the pandemic itself has created, but another part is that, with the attempt to encourage the victims to denounce these acts to the authorities, it seems that we have positive results and starts and delivers. I will give you some statistics for 2020. The Greek police, her services were seized in five thousand four hundred thirteen cases. We had five thousand eighty-nine victims. Of these, the women were four thousand two hundred forty - three and the men were five hundred sixty - six. Dragons: five thousand six hundred twenty. Women: nine hundred seventeen perpetrators. Men: four thousand six hundred thirty three. So these elements show that the issue of domestic violence requires brave solutions, immediateness and determination, so that the message we send is strong in all directions. We are here, together with all the victims of domestic violence who bravely come to seek protection shields and support from the Greek Police and the state. We are here, together with the perpetrators, with confidence in the law enforcement authorities that they will lead the perpetrators before justice. Our message is: “Shut the Silence. You have a voice. We are next to you and we support you." Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-16-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, too, Minister. At this point, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-16-S1-commons.u82	With the consent of the House at 10.58 p.m. the sitting is closed for Monday, 19 July 2021, at 16.00, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent questions.
