ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS In writing, the Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs, Mr Koutnatzis, informs the House that the questions to be discussed are as follows: No. No. No. Questions Nos 895/25-6-2021, 901/28-62021 and 908/28-6-2021 5912/124/2021, 5978/577/14-4-2021 and 6002/15-4-2021 questions (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) will be answered by the Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Konstantinos Skrekas. No. No. 897/25-6-2021 topical question will be answered by Deputy Minister of Finance Mr. Theodoros Doulakakis. No. No. 891/25-6-2021 topical question will be answered by the State Secretary for Civil Protection Mr Eleftherios Economou. No. No. Question No 90328-6-2021 topical and urgent debate 4819/8-32021 question (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Mr Panagiotis Tsakloglou. No. No. Question No 896/25-6-2021 and Question No 86/2021 Question No 630/264/2021 (Rule 130(5) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) will be answered by the Secretary of State for the Environment and Energy Mr Georgios Amyras. No. No. No. 2730/14-2021 and 6353/28-4-2021 questions (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, Mr Ioannis Kefaloyannis. No. No. No. Mr Ioannis Economou, Vice-President of the Commission, Mr Ioannis Economou, Vice-President of the Commission, Mr Ioannis Economou, Mr Ioannis Economou, Mr Ioannina, Mr Ioannis Economou, Mr Ioannis Economou, Mr Ioannis E. No. No. No. Proposal for a Council Regulation amending Regulation (EEC) No 898/28-62021 and amending Regulation (EEC) No 898/28-62021 on the application of Article 85(3) of the Treaty to certain categories of agreements and concerted practices in the air transport sector and Regulation (EEC) No 898/28-62021 and Regulation (EEC) No 898/28-62021 on the application of Articles 85 and 86 of the Treaty to certain categories of agreements and concerted practices in the air transport Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Lazaros Tsavdaridis is seeking permission from a few days' absence abroad for personal reasons, from Thursday 8 July to Monday 12 July. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u2	The House approved the requested permission. Will the third, with number 895/25-6-2021, be discussed in the third time question of the first cycle of MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'Amoorgos, Kimolos, Kythera, Sikinos and Tinos, wind tinos, wind turbines despite the European shield?' It is a good request to both honourable Members and the ministers to be in the reasonable context of time. Mr Arsenis, you have the floor to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u3	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I imagine that the fact that you yourself come to answer the question will mean that you have something positive to say to us, namely that these five islands, Amorgos, Kythera, Tinos, Kimolos and Sikinos will be protected from what the European Commission claims to be a threat. I am referring to the fact that, due to the plans to place massive wind turbines, industrial wind farms on these islands have come to the list of seven monuments pan-Europeanly at risk from the umbrella of cultural heritage organisations, the 'EUROPA NOTRA', the European Investment Bank, which is under the auspices of the European Commission. I will simply read to you the reasoning of the decision: 'This multi-spirited landscape is now in serious danger, as the Greek Government, instead of preserving it in every way, encourages its conversion into an industrial area with wind power stations'. This is from the point of view of the decision to join the list of seven European monuments at risk. And the Commissioner for Research and Innovation, Mrs Maria Gabriel, said that on the initiative we are highlighting the European political heritage that is at risk. So as you have chosen to come in person to answer the question, I imagine that you have come to tell us that you will stop any wind permits on these islands and that the important funding provided by the integration of the seven monuments at risk from the European Investment Bank to develop pilot ways to be autonomous islands in the Cyclades, respecting the protection of nature under European and national laws and their nature, as the decision to incorporate the seven monuments at risk, will be used. We'd expect nothing less than you. Of course, we are concerned, because a few days ago, Mr Amyras was here, and he actually told us that you will proceed with the protection of the areas without roads in these basic mountains, but we have nothing younger. A year and a half ago, Mr. Mitsotakis in Tzoumerkas, committed themselves to protecting themselves and that they would not enter wind on the high mountains and have not seen anything but the opposite. The European directive on NATURA is being violated. We've received a fine because we don't have management studies. Without management studies, continue and space yourself windy. We are at the forefront of the court for violating environmental licensing for NATURA, European legislation that is, in particular, windy. The Spatial Planning of the RES is being violated by overcompensation of capacity in Evia. Authorization is granted by RAE in exclusion zones and archaeological sites and traditional settlements. Now, in the blockade zone for the bear you start and put back on wind turbines, while you are committed to institutionalizing it in a month and a half. Please, I expect your presence here to bring some effect, because the situation has escaped.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u4	Minister, Mr. Screka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to say two things about our government's energy strategy. You know very well - we have said this repeatedly in this Chamber - that in September 2019 at the UN climate summit, the Prime Minister of Greece, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, surprised the global audience, announcing Greece's intention to proceed to a very rapid degreasing, decarbonisation of the Greek production base, the quickest degreasing among the European Member States. This indeed shows our commitment and commitment to contributing to the ambitious European objectives so that Europe becomes the first climate neutral continent by 2050. You know very well that in our country, at the moment, around 30% of electricity consumed comes from renewable energy sources and the rest of it, 15% to 20%, is imported, while the remaining 50% share between the gas that has reached its share of electricity production to 30% to 35%, many times, and the lignite that has been reduced to 15%, when 10 years ago this was about 60%. So you understand that our government's decisive strategy is actually expressed to make a significant contribution to the European objectives, but to lead this European effort. And he does that, not by words, but by actions. Of course, you can understand that, in order to remove lignite plants and gradually to decommission fossil fuels which, during their use for electricity generation, are emitted into the atmosphere of carbon dioxide, we must, of course, invest significantly in renewable energy sources, in electricity transmission and distribution networks, in storage systems so that we can achieve the overall decommissioning of electricity in our country from fossil fuels. That is why we need to build and invest in RES, that is, in photovoltaics, in renewable energy sources, in biogas plants, in the exploitation of geothermality in our country, which is very rich, and which we have in fact help us achieve energy independence beyond security of supply. From there on, there has indeed been overheating - I would say - in the renewable energy sector with a great deal of investment that wants to be exploited in the investment in renewable energy sources, in the development of means of producing renewable energy. That is why I must tell you that at the moment we are in the process of completing a new special landfill for the RES, which will be much more specific and - I would say - far more stringent so that, indeed, investors who really want to make use of windpower or sun or even geothermality in the country, know where they can build and what they can do and in this way contribute to the energy transition of our country, to this green energy transition, without, on the other hand, jeopardising neither the environment nor culture, nor the prosperity and well-being of citizens in local communities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, too. Mr Arsenis has the floor for his dentistry for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you didn't answer anything. I'm afraid you're being reserved for answering your dentistry, which I won't have the right to answer. You know, this is not the case for parliamentary dialogue. Because you like - and you do it repeatedly - when you and your colleagues and Mr Amyras, when we talk about winds throwing the glove at me and saying 'but, after all, are you in favour or against wind energy?', I would like to remind you that I have given the European Parliament a fight. I personally have led the majority when your New Democracy colleagues voted against in order to have climate targets that are strict in all areas and in the field of RES. Right now, we are not talking and we are not judging our climate future. At the moment, we are discussing whether Greece is violating European legislation when you are located in NATURA without a management plan, when it approves almost every licence without passing the filter of proper assessment and violates the European Environmental Licensing Directive, when it violates the spatial planning of RES in all restrictive conditions, the minimums it has. It must be the 20th time that, in a timely question, you or any of your other State Secretarys: "But, you know, we're preparing the EIA spatial planning", when you violate what's there and say you're going to do better. I now ask you to stop any wind turbines licensed, go and use the money of the Recovery Fund to fund a program "Security - Autonomous" not for eighty thousand households that you put, for eighty thousand homes, for what the money reaches, if possible for everything. Go make a substantial and fair savings at the same time as installing photovoltaics on the rooftops. Why am I telling you this? Not only will it be a real recovery with mobilisation of small professionals and small businesses massively, with the reinforcement of household incomes, but at the same time the European Commission tells us. In Article 19, the European Commission told us that Greece is this country from all the countries of the European Union that can produce not about 20% or 13% - it depends on how one sees the numbers, of windy things we have at the moment - but from the rooftop photovoltaics we will exceed 33% of energy consumption, without need for networks anywhere, with energy losses, but over where the networks already exist. This, of course, will benefit the young and not the old. That is our political difference, and that is why I imagine you prefer the other system, but it destroys nature. So we invite you to stop the winds right now, reboot from zero. Any windy establishment should be with social consensus, with social planning and revenue going to local communities. Until then, seize the opportunity to make photovoltaics on rooftops, get out in the climate leadership worldwide. Right now we're destroying our nature. And you know what? We're doing the greatest damage to climate change, not by accident. In this critical decade for climate change, the UN has not dedicated it either to wind turbines or to photovoltaics. It did not dedicate it to technologies, dedicated it to a decade of restoration of natural ecosystems.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u8	I would ask you very much to complete it, Mr Arseni. We're out of time from the first question already.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u9	I shall conclude, Mr President. Anyone who knows the basics for climate change knows that the first thing we have to do is protect the nature that we have left. Stop plundering nature, go to the photovoltaics on the roofs and stop the winds. Start from zero with social consensus through societies and for societies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u10	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u11	Mr Colleague, let me tell you that we support the installation of roof photovoltaics, and for this next period we will proceed to legislative initiatives to further support the establishment of such small photovoltaics for the benefit of both the country's energy system and Greek citizens. I would like to say here, of course, that you yourself said that even if we were to run out of the possibility of installing it, which is not easy in practice, of course, and I would explain why, the roof photovoltaics would cover about 30% of the demand in the country, so we should cover 70% of the RES that should be installed outside the roofs. Also, let me tell you that photovoltaics only operate during the hours we have sunshine, do not operate at night, in contrast to wind turbines where it blows in the morning, blows at night, so there we have a more stable electricity supply profile in the system, which we need so much. Let me remind you that in Denmark, for example, over 50% of its demand is covered by wind turbines, not by photovoltaics, and of course it also has many water, from hydroelectric. So, here there is no white - black and there is not only one solution. If there was only one solution, we'd have made it. The building on roofs presents practical difficulties - which is why we will give a lot of incentives - in that we have many apartments, there is fragmentation and partitioning to the owners of the apartments, there is proportionality in the space and it is even more difficult in a space on the roof of the building where there are many shareholders and beneficiaries to always work together to build a photovoltaic. On the other hand, I have to tell you that if we do what you say, namely here and now, to stop all licensing, you understand that Greece will be urging us to achieve the energy transition and to contribute to Europe's objectives and ultimately to protect the environment. The truth is somewhere in the middle, it's not on the edge, it's never on the edge. Of course there's overheating and we're dealing with it. I told you that we have a special spatial plan, which is being completed for renewable energy, which will be much more stringent and much more specific. On the other hand, at the moment no European regulation is being violated, no European directive is being violated, nor is Greek legislation, of course, during the authorisation phase for renewable energy sources, the installation of an EIA in our country. If he is infringed, please, to make some complaints to me and we will immediately send the state organs to stop this illegal authorisation, as you say. All licenses follow the procedure through the opinions, through the opinions of the services of the Ministry of Culture, the forestry service, the municipality, the regional council, the municipal council, where necessary, so that the final decision on the approval of environmental conditions can be reached and the investor can then continue. I repeat. We are above the issue, and we are dealing with many of them and with the overheating of the market, which has happened. Over the next few weeks, we will move on to new legislative initiatives and allow those who really want to invest, invest and do not have this blockage of the energy space from thousands of applications, which can ultimately not be carried out. And this ultimately shows a distorted picture of where to build what, that is, if someone sees on the RAE map that has been applied at the moment for the award of connection terms, then there really is no gap. In the country at the moment applications have been made for 100 Giga, the country by 2030 needs the installation of 10 GigaW installed power of renewable energy sources, so 1/10 of which today have submitted an application to RAE will be built. So you understand that all we see is a virtual reality, not what we have in 2030. I repeat, however, that here we are together to talk about what more and how much more we can protect the natural environment of the country and its culture and local communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Minister. We continue with the sixth question under number 908/28-6-2021 of the SYRIZA MEP - Progressive Alliance Mr.Alexandros (Alexis) Gift to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "In a state of exclusion from the extension of natural gas networks, the Peloponnese Region". Here, Mr. Haritsis, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. Good evening, Minister. You will allow me to begin with a brief background of the case, because I think there is a significant information deficit in this regard. The expansion of natural gas networks in the Peloponnese Region, in particular in the six major cities (Korinthos, Argos, Nafplio, Tripoli, Sparta and Kalamata) is a process that began with the planning of the TEN in the government of SYRIZA in 2018 and concerned the construction of networks of 60% of the road network of these cities. This EUR 35 million budget project would provide zero fees for consumers and households and households and businesses, i.e. very low use costs. Last year, unfortunately, the RAE, the Energy Regulatory Authority, decided on the specific project. In parallel with the privatizations of the current government as a whole, in strategic energy sectors, a private company has been authorized to distribute gas for Corinth, Tripoli and Megalopolis. Questions are therefore being raised both for the selection criteria of the private provider without a competitive procedure, but also for the final sale price to consumers both domestic and industrial. At the same time, Minister, the Peloponnese Region at the same time during RAE's public consultation on the development of the TEN network confirmed its intention to issue an invitation specifically to the TEN for the inclusion of the projects concerned in the Peloponnese RDP with a budget of EUR 20 million. In this context, given that the New Democracy Government intends to grant all public participation in the natural gas network by selling the infrastructure and the DEPA Trade, according to the information - from the publications I say - the final phase seems to be completed in the autumn. So there is a risk that important cities, such as Kalamata, Sparta, Nafplio, will remain outside the gas supply network, but also, of course, there will also be an increase in connection costs for end-users. Indicative of the fact that, after the negative outcome of the application submitted by the TENA for the revision of RAE’s decision to answer Peloponnese from the development programme of the company’s gas networks, the TENA then followed the legal path, having already recourseed to the Administrative Court, while the Peloponnese Region has submitted three objections to the same decision. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In view of all this, it seems that at the moment when we are talking about the planning of the extension of the natural gas network to the main cities of the Peloponnese is in the air, so that very critical questions remain, as to which cities this extension will be relevant, what will be the way to supply and transport, and above all what will be the burdens for the final consumer. Minister, the development of natural gas networks, as confirmed by the positions of local chambers and local authorities, as well as of all actors in the region, is an important development perspective, which will facilitate the daily living of citizens in the Peloponnese, business, the activity of local industry and crafts, agricultural production and health and education structures. But the Peloponnese Region is currently in the exclusion regime, and I therefore ask you some very specific questions, and I very much urge you to have clear answers from your side. So is the programming of the TEN for the six cities in the Peloponnese Region? In what cities and at what cost is the development of the natural gas networks planned by 2023? How, Minister, will the social and economic benefit for the region be guaranteed from the use of this EUR 20 million fund by the regional operational programme of the Peloponnese Region? What commitments will the private shareholder, which will arise in the infrastructure PPA, thus in TENs, for the development of networks in reserved areas or in areas that do not meet private economic criteria for the development of the network?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u14	Finish, Mr. Haritsi. Approximate five minutes. Questions have been understood.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u15	They are questions that concern society. It is an issue that, as you know very well, has been central for too long. I think this is an opportunity with this timely question to give clear answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u16	Minister, you have the floor for your answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u17	Many, Mr President, some of the questions you have asked me, you have already answered them with your position. Let me start by saying two things about the role of gas in the energy strategy that our Government has planned and is currently working on. I would like to say that the Greek Government and the Prime Minister themselves have decided, planned, and today they are implementing one of the most ambitious energy projects in Europe, with very ambitious objectives, many times over Europeans and with decisions, which really indicate that Greece can take the lead, as was the case with the koroni pandemic. Because it is true that all the Greeks can see that there is another Greece, one which we can have, when we decide, when we plan properly and finally when we implement in the best way. Allow me to say, of course, on the occasion of the coronary pandemic and the way in which we have managed it as Greek government, but also from the vaccination programme, that I believe that everyone who is present here today, who has been vaccinated, saw another Greece when we went to vaccinate. We saw the way in which vaccination was organised, with no suffering for the citizens, very quickly, very early. It's what the Greeks want. I don't think he has colors or orders. It's something we all have to try from morning to night. The people who are dealing with politics at least and often with people's confidence are in a position of responsibility, we must all have it in our minds so that we can achieve it and leave it to the next when they come. From there on, I would like to tell you that in fact in the energy strategy that we are implementing, gas plays a very important role, because it is a gas that replaces lignite. An electrical MWh, when produced by lignite emits into the atmosphere up to three times more carbon dioxide than natural gas. So we understand that by replacing lignite with natural gas, we achieve much less impact on the atmosphere and so we help to address the causes of climate change and then the climate crisis, which is, of course, carbon dioxide. Sadly, we understand that we should not and do not have the right to leave the planet unprepared in the next crisis, which is the climate crisis. That is why we are promoting a very ambitious investment programme for the development and further penetration of natural gas in the Greek economy and in Greek society. The day before yesterday, we met the Prime Minister, Kyriakos Mitsotakis in Xanthi, where the ambitious TEN programme was presented, which will invest more than EUR 500 million over the next period by 2030 for the extension of gas distribution networks. In this way we will give tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of households the opportunity to have access to natural gas and thus also reduce the energy bill to heat their homes, but also to have a lower environmental footprint and, of course, to create many thousands of jobs during the construction phase of these networks, as well as many sustainable jobs for the maintenance and management of the network in its operation. More than 300m euros will be invested by Attica and the Thessaloniki-Thessaly NSA and also by increasing, further penetration of natural gas in Greek society and, of course, in the economy. Many professional units, crafts, industries, greenhouses, manufacturing and processing units and the primary sector see lower energy costs, ease their work and, of course, reduce their environmental footprint. Because the time of my prototype has ended, let me reply to the denology of what you specifically asked.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Minister. Now Mr. Haritsis has the floor for his dentistry for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you have done an analysis of the benefits of natural gas - and I have no reason to disagree with you - as a transitional resource on the path towards liberation and the full coalisation of our energy mix and the economy as a whole. Obviously, natural gas has an important role to play in the mid-term until we reach full carbonisation. But that's exactly why we're talking here about how this network is going to be extended to take advantage of households and businesses. Unfortunately, however, I have not heard a single word about the specific question I ask you about what is going on in the Peloponnese Region. Because I did hear the Prime Minister in Xanthi yesterday talking about the TEN programme as a whole, saying about the cities in the region of eastern Macedonia - Thrace, saying about jobs in the region. I haven't heard anything about the Peloponnese, though. What we have unfortunately seen so far is general promises and we have also seen the activity of a particular private company in the Peloponnese. And this whole context has created a very big doubt and an insecurity to the citizens of the region. So I repeat the question. What's going on in the Peloponnese? What about the six cities for which the 2018 plan of the TENs provided that they would be included in the gas network expansion programme? What about the regional money? Are we going to ensure these 20 million or are we going to risk losing them from this very important project? And, of course, what are the private sector's commitments, when according to Law 4643/19, your Government voted, is there no real provision for private investor's commitments to take over the infrastructures, thus also the TEN, in relation to the minimum coverage rate of the Greek territory by natural gas networks? To say this quite simply, the individual may consider that network expansion is not beneficial in specific areas, in areas that can be socially, economically, developmentally very critical to us, very critical to the local communities and thus block this network expansion. I think it is very crucial to give answers on your part so that the people of the Peloponnese also know whether the process of network expansion will eventually proceed. Know if the economic benefits of using the fuel in question will be fruitful. Unfortunately, at the moment, the whole programme is in the air and in your first speech I have not heard a clear answer specifically for the Peloponnese. I expect your dentistry to have a clearer picture on your side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u20	Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr President. Let me mention the history that has taken place in the Peloponnese region, always bearing in mind that we as government will do our utmost to expand gas and be able to have more and more households access to it, but also businesses. So let me say that in fact the Public Gas Distribution Networks Company, TENA, is the operator of the distribution network of other Greece, that is, all areas except Attica, Thessaloniki and Thessaly. At the moment, the TENA owns authorisations to distribute and manage a distribution network issued by RAE and according to the abovementioned distribution licence, the existing distribution network in the Peloponnese Region, which is built and managed by the TENA, consists of twenty-three-and-a-half kilometres of medium-pressure network in the area of Corinth, Agios Theodores and Municipality of Loutraki. The grant of the distribution licence shall include the approval of an initial five-year development programme, which shall form an integral part of it. The initial development programme of the TENA for the period 2018-2022, which had been approved with the distribution licence, envisaged the development of a distribution network in the following municipalities of the Peloponnese Region: In the Municipality of Corinth of the Regional Unit of Corinthia, in the Municipality of Tripoli in the Regional Unit of Arcadia, in the Municipality of Kalamata in the Regional Unit of Messinia, in the Municipality of Sparta in the Regional Unit of Laconia and in the Municipality of Argos, Mycena and Nafplies in the Regional Unit of Argolidis. So that was what existed and was done in 2018-2022.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u22	In 2018 this plan was made.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u23	Let us say that the distribution networks in the municipalities of Kalamata and Sparta provided for their supply with LNG, while for the networks of the municipalities of Corinth, Tripolis and Argos - Nafplio their interconnection with the national gas transmission system. Finally, under the terms of the licences granted, the operator had to develop the distribution network in accordance with the approved five-year development programme. Therefore, the TEN, in accordance with the programme that it had submitted and approved and submitted an updated annually at the latest on 1 November of each year, had to proceed to the investments. The holder of the authorisation shall have the obligation to inform the RAE of the fact by providing a specific reasoned request for the reasons for the delay and the actions taken to address them. As part of these obligations, TENS submitted an updated development programme, which had, however, been substantially amended and with very great delays in relation to the initial programme that it had submitted and approved, but with reasons which, according to the Energy Regulatory Authority, did not justify this more than eighteen months delay in the implementation of the programme. Thus, the principle that the relocation of the initial timescale over more than eighteen months, as provided for in the existing provisions, triggered the provision of paragraph 3 of Article 80C4001 of 2011 and released the areas from the TEN development programme. Why is he doing this? Because when RAE sees that there is indeed a company, whether it is the DATA or any other company, because it is open, one individual can also submit a network investment and development licence - more than eighteen months, over a year and a half, has the possibility of withdrawing the licence so as to enable someone else who is interested in coming and moving on to these investments. So that's where we're at right now. Let us say that there was the next company called 'EDIL', which was then transformed into 'HENGAS', which submitted an investment programme and invested twenty-three kilometres and four hundred metres of a low-pressure network and four miles of an eight hundred metres of average pressure for the city of Corinth, which will be supplied by an exit point of the national gas transmission network for the town of Tripoli, where eight and a half kilometres of a medium-pressure network is planned and twenty-four kilometres of a six-mile low-pressure network. Furthermore, RAE, the Energy Regulatory Authority, this independent authority, has granted this company a distribution licence decision for the Municipality of Megalopolis, Peloponnese, in order to develop a gas distribution network to replace the existing district heating currently supplied by PPC’s lignite power plant.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u24	The TEN is a supervised body of your department.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u25	So, at the moment you see that for these municipalities, RAE has already proceeded with a licence and investment is being carried out, while for the next ones, which are Argos, Mycenas, Nafplio, Kalamata and Sparta, RAE is currently studying a new coherent regulatory framework, which will ensure in a comprehensive and economically viable way - so that we do not transfer too high costs to natural gas users, to consumers - the supply of remote distribution networks over the long term. So at the moment it reviews the regulatory framework that exists, because these regions, these municipalities, are difficult to get gas from the national system. So they'll probably have remote stations. It appears both of them, both the TEN and the other company, are talking about virtual gas pipelines, i.e. through SNG or LNG, and not connected to the natural gas pipeline with the national network. So, at the moment, the RAI is in a reform of the regulatory framework in order to make a more correct assessment and then to proceed with the approval of these investment projects which will arise through its plenary session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, too. We continue with the first with number 5912/12-2021 question of the circle of petitions - questions by SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance Mr. Socrates Famelou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The energy communities and the action to combat energy poverty will remain outside the National Recovery and Resistance Plan". Mr Famelle, you have the floor for your prototype, with the observation that I was not heard in the first time by everyone, by you and by the Minister, about times. That is why we should be very warm to be close to the time laid down in the Rules of Procedure, that is to say, two minutes for the prototype and three minutes for the adjunct and position of the ministers. Here you go, Mr. Famele, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u27	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good week to you and to the Minister and to the honourable Members and to the colleagues of the House. Minister, we could honestly start the question from where you left off the previous one, because I am very surprised that you have just announced to the National Representation that Sparta, Kalamata, Argos and Nafplio are out of planning natural gas networks and you are under consideration a new institutional framework. This is a significant change in a routed major investment from in the Peloponnese concerning natural gas. Unfortunately, I cannot comment more on it, because time and the President are pushing us. But it's very important what you said, that Sparta, Kalamata, Argos and Nafplio are out of gas. In fact, since the Government of New Democracy left without control, possibly, the TEN, lost the licence and a private investor took these networks to manage them on a monopoly basis. However, I will return to the question which we tabled on 12 April, eight of the Members of the SYRIZA, which concerned first of all the issue of this great challenge before us, the energy transition to a green future, climate neutrality, but also socially more fair. The New Democracy, of course, Minister, since the first time it took over governance, has turned against energy democracy. It has created too many obstacles to energy communities, a legislative initiative - the division of the SYRIZA government and you have brought Greece into total contrast with what is happening throughout Europe. In practice, as a government you have chosen to prevent citizens, self-government, small and medium-sized enterprises from having access to the good of energy and being involved in the production of clean energy too. So we could have better acceptance of RES projects across the region, have lower costs, and we could all contribute to the fight against energy poverty. In New Democracy, then, firstly, the energy communities lost their priority of connecting the network, secondly, the funding that was ready - already in existence - was a pre-publishment of EUR 25 million by the ESDP, and you have voted to punish their share composition, which you have taken up to the back - another one voted for, voted for the New Democracy - and, since 2022, announced that the energy communities will be part of the competitive processes. And they have all come out of the energy communities and renewable energy sources in Europe, and they say, Minister, that this cannot be done. You cannot, in other words, put on the same terms in the competitive process the cooperative schemes that citizens make for their own consumption - self-production and self-consumption - in competition with major contractors. This is also emphasized by the WWF and the GREENPEACE. You have these texts and I think you have studied them. On the other hand, with the design you have for the Recovery Fund so far left the House outside the discussion. No one has been informed of what will be included. Some titles you brought, a summary. You have agreed with the European Union and possibly with some of the power system's best friends around the Maximos Mansion. And we have seen - at least what has come to Parliament, in the titles - that any care for energy poverty is missing - is zero in their code next door - there is no care for the energy communities - and there is also no investment or cost code - and, of course - to say this now - there is also no investment in the circular economy. However, we are asking you - and I will close to respecting the time and the President and the other colleagues - the following questions in this written question, which, in fact, I understand, cannot be answered and described whole orally: Do you intend, at least for the energy and the environment of the Recovery Fund, to present us with a detailed presentation? Do you intend - because it goes beyond your government's limits - to set up a intergroup, national mechanism that can monitor what is going on with this great opportunity or make it another lost opportunity, as the right-wing governments in Greece usually do? And the main thing we want to discuss today is financing and strengthening for the energy communities, both at institutional level and at economic and energy poverty. I am reluctant to tell you that we are already reading that from pressure and criticism you are opening up to the public debate some issues. Even this will benefit the country, because we improve many things of your own negligence. But I am waiting for your first answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u28	Minister, you have the floor for your prototype for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I will start with something you said about energy communities - I want as much as you can hear me, look into it to discuss it a little in your dentistry - that we are not helping the energy communities for self-consumption, etc. I want you to tell me this: of the thousands of energy communities that have applied for terms of association or have production permits - especially in December, we had three thousand applications - how many energy communities are for self-consumption? I would like you to answer that if you know. It is the institutional framework that we have received from you, from your own government. He was another, of course, the Minister of Energy. It doesn't matter. It is what we have received, which created - as I will say below - these huge distortions and, ultimately, energy communities do not serve the purpose we want them to be. Tell me, for example, how many of them participate in OTAs - out of the three thousand submitted in December - how many they are to combat energy poverty and what you did, of course, for energy poverty. That's what I'll talk about, of course. Let me say two things about the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. The National Plan for Recovery and Resilience, submitted by Greece to the relevant European Commission and the institutions, was among the first two submitted to Europe. Indeed, it has received very positive criticisms, as you yourself will have read, of course, if you follow the events a little bit, and the Vice-President of the European Commission and the competition authority, Mrs Westager, who, in fact, visited the Ministry of the Environment and Energy when she had come to Greece and expressed very positively - as well as many other officials and the President of the European Commission, Von Der Lyen - because, at the moment, the Greek Plan on Resistance, for Recovery, is working as a model, as a guide for many other European countries. We will achieve very important objectives with the interventions we have chosen: increased investments, leverage money from the private sector, over a hundred and fifty thousand sustainable jobs and, of course, the energy transition that we want to achieve as a country from a productive model that we have received in a model, a model of production that will create hundreds of thousands of sustainable jobs and high-paid jobs. Since you said that we have not discussed this, I would like to tell you that this Plan was put into public consultation and through the OpenGov at the end of 2020 - compared from November to December 2020 - and, of course, there was correspondence and communication between the RIS and the energy actors of civil society and the whole market. There have been many, many hundreds of debates, teleconferences, meetings to reach this plan, which - I repeat - has received the best criticisms. And tell me a certain international player who has been convicted or criticised negatively - to say so - has criticised this very ambitious and very visionary plan of the country. From there on, I can tell you that it includes, in terms of the 'green' pillar, EUR 6,177 billion - over EUR 6 billion - 1,2 billion is for the transition to a new energy model that is environmentally friendly and for the achievement of this energy transition that we want, EUR 2,7 billion is for the energy upgrade of the building, as well as energy savings in businesses, spatial reform and energy poverty. You're saying we're running behind you. I don't want to get into this, really, meaningless discussion of who's the first. I'll tell you what I've announced. You must have read it. I've also described it in an interview I gave about four weeks ago in a Sunday newspaper. We will use EUR 100 million from the Recovery Fund to build some 120MW photovoltaics, which can be offset by watches from vulnerable households. It's over thirty thousand. And that's the beginning. We are dealing with energy poverty. We don't sit down. We make use of the sun, make use of resources to help vulnerable households permanently, those who really, when pressing the electrical switch at their home, are not sure that the lamp will turn on. We do it by action, Mr. Comrade. And please, when the time comes, be escorts to this effort and, of course, to finding extra resources so that other vulnerable households can join this project. I repeat what we will do: We will give local government the opportunity to build energy communities for self-consumption, such as the essential role that had to be played...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u30	Finish, Minister. The rest in your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u31	I shall conclude, Mr President. ...to carry out energy communities for the benefit and support of vulnerable households. This has never been done in Greece and the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis does so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u32	Mr. Femelle, the reason for your dentistry for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, let's take it in turn. Firstly, were there international, important, institutions that revealed that you did not have a debate on the Recovery Fund in Greece? I personally, on the day Mr. Skeylakakis presented the axes here, have tabled an eighty-three non-governmental organisations and, if you like, a function, such as the "GREENPEACE", which denounce in writing that there has been a lack of participation and a lack of transparency in the planning of the Greek Recovery Fund. I think it's called the Change Movement, it's called a lot of parties. So let go of these. We know all about fake words, big words. There was no consultation. The consultation took place only on the axes, on the priorities. Unfortunately, no one yet knows what the loans are, no one knows who will benefit and possibly many things you keep secretly. We now reveal a lot of things from the Recovery Fund, such as hiding in the Water Regulatory Authority and privatising water, the Waste Regulatory Authority and the privatisation of waste, but we will slowly bring them to Parliament. We don't have to reveal everything, because we found out what you guys are hiding in the Recovery Fund. But let's get to the point that we're talking about. You spoke of energy poverty. Energy poverty, Mr Skreka, with official documentaries, which we will bring to Parliament in the next bill you will bring to the SYRIZA government, although it was for a memorandum period, has been reduced in Greece and with specific medium-calibration tools and the energy price by 12%. In the new Republic energy poverty is increasing and the cuts are increasing because of the shame you are allowing on the energy market. Leave the issue of energy poverty and the second package of fake words. Let's go a little bit and talk about the energy communities. In our energy communities you say that the institutional framework was incomplete. Mr. Screka, were you the ones who passed the law on SYRIZA's energy communities, this innovative European law? You voted for him, Mr Screka, and now you say that it was not enough. Good! You're two years of government. Why haven't you improved him? Undersecretary Mr Thomas here in Parliament in 2019 told us that you would bring some improvements for communities to run. Instead of doing so, you have reduced all the benefits of connecting the network, financing, you have created problems in the equity composition, and now you are putting them in competitive processes, so that the energy communities and their link to Europe can say that the energy communities in Greece now have a few months to live. SYRIZA does not say it, "WWF" says it, "GREENPEACE" says it, the Rescoop.eu cooperative says so. So, Mr. Screka, let's talk about this. We know very well that after SYRIZA revealed that the Recovery Fund had zero for communities, zero for energy poverty, zero for a circular economy, you made a specific announcement, which talks about these 120 MW for the municipalities. The proposal that we have in the question is specific. Will you help activate the energy community in each municipality with funding linked to vulnerable households? With what institutional framework? With what priorities? And since we have proposed and well done, because WWF proposed it first and GREENPEACE in our own government, the question is when you will do so. Because everything you've done so far is at the expense of the energy communities, Mr. Screka. And you're asking me what's going on with self-production, self-consumption and energy communities, beyond that you haven't corrected the law at all two years now. Is that too poor for that government? Two years he's found a mistake and can't correct it in a law that he voted for? But I ask you this: Germany now has more than 40% energy production - I think it is 42% self-production, self-consumption, rural and communities. We in Greece, instead of moving forward, are turning backwards. New Democracy takes us behind European regularity. We, as SYRIZA in the programme conference that ended yesterday, reached the proposal that 50% of energy be produced by self-production, self-consumption, energy communities, individual systems and rural ones. Will you follow it and how will we implement it? A specific proposal, practicable, progressive, European and green. That's the way the transition is going. Not with the conflicts that have opened all over Greece with the wild west on renewable energy issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u34	Finish it, Mr. Femmel.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u35	We therefore have a compared proposal both in funding and in the institutional framework.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u36	Excuse me, Mr. Famele, but you can't do the analysis of the program.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u37	I'm done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u38	We have sixteen dates, and unfortunately we are still in the third debate. Hot request!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u39	So the question, Mr Screka, is a specific one. What you will do and when to support energy communities. You passed the law, we know it. You haven't changed him so far. In particular, can you tell me what you're going to do? And the 120 MW announcement, we read it. We in the institutional framework want to help to move forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u40	The Minister has the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u41	I will make it clearer as regards the support we will give to Ottas, municipalities and regions, so that they can build 100% photovoltaics, so that they can be offset with over thirty thousand vulnerable households. It is something we have announced, something that is included in the Recovery Fund. You say that we did not consult on the Recovery Fund and you mentioned eighty-three NGOs who complained about it. They didn't see that he was in the consultation so they could be involved? They couldn't trade or send a letter to the Ministry to start a co-operation? How many thousands of NGOs are there in the world from which only eighty-three sent a letter through you?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u42	No, of course not. I found it through publicity.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u43	It's publicity. So they sent a letter that they did not consult. Because here the big, serious NGOs that actually provide work, such as WWF, participated, like many others in Greece. But let us make a list of these eighty-three to see what they are and whether they are worth mentioning them in the Greek Parliament. Because there are a lot of NGOs and I don't know who they're doing business and who they don't. Of course, there are too many who do a very serious job and we work together and consult. Now, with regard to the regulatory and regulatory framework governing the institution of the energy communities, first of all you have not answered me how many energy communities from the thousands they have tabled to obtain a production licence are for settling. You didn't answer me. And how many of them are involved in? You didn't answer that either. I will tell you, therefore, that I have set up a working group within the RIS for about three months to come into direct contact and take the views of both the environmental organisations and the European Federation of Energy Communities and now a framework is being prepared for the energy communities that are moving on two axes. Firstly, that the national framework is compatible with the European framework, because the European framework is changed and we must follow it, as you quite rightly said. The second axis concerns the removal of obstacles to the resolution of problems arising in the application of Law 4513/2018. What were the weaknesses of this law? Firstly, the failure of energy communities to participate in financial programmes due to a Headquarters Restriction. We had a problem with what the seat of the energy community is considered, and that is why the financial institutions did not borrow. Difficulty of accessing energy communities in banking was created. In addition, specific provisions applicable to energy communities that have members of LAGs and do not apply to energy communities that have members of LAGs. Energy communities that have a member of OTAs even if the OTA participates in the cooperative capital at a small percentage and cannot proceed with a commission for example, equipment or anything unless L4412 is implemented, the Public Procurement Act and so on. In short, today the role of the energy communities needs to be improved to carry out exactly the task that we want, because that is what we will support the energy poverty that we have done. We have announced this to you, we have identified where the money will come from and we will start the next time with an invitation we will announce so that the municipalities can come and move forward so that they can join this programme. To say that, unfortunately, at the moment, the energy communities - the regime we had - have unfortunately been working on by those who were ultimately independent investors and could invest anyway. They have given further incentives and finally instead of energy communities coming from many small ones, they have become those who would otherwise invest because they had the funds to invest. That's what we want to change, so we can make it even fairer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u44	Thank you too, Minister. We continue with the discussion of the third under No 6002/15.4.2021 reference - question by SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance Mr. Socrates Famelou, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject of the Ragda degradation of the Greek network of electricity distribution in the context of his privatisation, the black-out of thousands of households in the bad weather of Medeas and the tragic accident in Evia reveal the plan for the degradation of the Administrator. Mr. Famelos has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Skreka, because I want to be consistent, I would like to inform you that the eighty-three bodies who sent the letter to Prime Minister Mitsotakis, Mr Staikoras and Mr Skylakakis are all environmental bodies with which you cooperated, as we were working together. It is the 'WWF', it is the 'GREENPEACE'. Sadly, disguise too quickly. I have all the names here, I see all the environmental organizations. I see all actors in society from 'SOS Children' to 'Action Aid Hellas'. I see all civil society organisations. I see ECOCITY, the forums of immigrants or refugees. I see the Environment Protection Union, the GREENPEACE, as I said to you, the 'ITHAKI', the 'KALLITE', METTE, the Ecological Society, the Pan-Hellenic Network of Eco-Organizations, even in many associations of people with disease or disability, the 'GREEN TANK'. So don't open up that kind of conversation. These bodies spoke of a lack of consultation and transparency in the discussion and preparation of the Recovery Fund. Let's go a little bit on the question that we have in front of us. Mr President, I understand the pressure of time, but I have to tell you that this is a question from 15 April of forty-four Members, who had ten questions that I cannot answer, nor do I think the Minister is easy to answer. Here, Minister, I would like you to tell me how to solve this problem. When you have not answered a written question that has been written, you and I can neither describe it nor give me answers. Here, for example, we are asking with my SYRIZA colleagues for answers about the serious business deficits of the DEDN in great snowfall and bad weather "Medea". How can we get specific answers when you come within three minutes to say something and go? We need written answers and that is why I say that we will come back to this question several times. The "Medea", in addition to the remaining deficits we had with the motorways, also highlighted the New Democracy's political choice to devaluate the medium-voltage manager, i.e. the TEN, where no recruitment was carried out, the necessary preparations were not carried out even the farts and the cleaning of the network areas, because the only thing that you were interested in in the TEN - to say it - is to sell 49% that you are now preparing and to appoint some tens of blue children in managers' seats with very large increases in their wages. That was the only project that your government has carried out. But the bad weather came, the "Medea" and proved the very great operational inadequacy of the blue administration you have put in the TEN. And what we are asking today is that you tell us the assessment of the operator's preparation for bad weather. Don't tell me what you're going to do from now on, where you want to sell him. Tell me why 11 directors were hired, who have taken multiple pay from what they have been given up until now, with no staff - that is, directors without having any workers - and if all the network control protocols were implemented, if the trimming contract were made, in which areas have you gone in the last two years, with whom you have supervised these tasks, so that hundreds of thousands of citizens - and as far as I know - do not have power in them in this very bad weather. Because - this is a very serious problem - you have devalued all public bodies and unfortunately you are deceiving them, since at the same time you are eating their guts with blue children in a body we have revealed here in this House and opaque supplies of health material, but the issue is at least one of them doing their job. Because it appears from the outset that their work was not done there, because the networks fell and while they were talking about very much preparation, while their workers had warned with many documents to prepare, it appears that these workers were not in the field or in the machinery. So, first of all, Minister, help me to see how you will give us the answers, because I understand that in three minutes the thirteen questions - which is a page full - cannot be answered. So tell us: Has the adequacy of the administration been assessed? Did everything that had to be done? How did he deal with the preparation for a great bad weather and generally for the winter season? We need to find a way to solve this and talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u46	Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u47	Mr. Colleague, I really can't understand how you're judging whether an operation is going well or has problems working. One way to see what investment this operation is doing. Another way is to see what he has on the stock market. The PPC group when you handed it over, including the DEDDIE, had a valuation that was under half a billion dollars, under 500 million euros. There have been some moments that PPC costs together with the DEDU, all together, together with PPC Renewable, 300 to 400 million, if I remember well. Today, the group's capitalisation is at EUR 2 billion. It is at least four times more the stock exchange value, which shows how the markets are perceived, investors who risk their money and buy shares of that company and expect a return, whether it goes well or badly to a company, which is already listed, is a group. Because, as you know, PPC's results are included, the results of the TEN are integrated. You don't understand that. You can really ask how a company can be assessed. I'm going to tell you another example. Let's go see what investment the DADP did when you ruled and had the administration you chose. I have nothing with any administration. I believe every administration chosen is trying to do the best. But let's finally see what he's doing and how effective the administration is. Because you have been negatively judging the current administration. Investment 2017: EUR 137 million of investment from TENE in network development, maintenance of networks. This is the work of the DEDEN. Investment 2018: EUR 146 million. Investment 2019: EUR 151 million. Do you know what the minimum limit is? There are rules, there are models, there are the experience that says, depending on the length of the network, how many investments need to be realised so that this is in good condition and that we do not have every little and little holiday or that more RES can enter the system that is now unable to block. It is a saturated network - you know it - from the region to the Trikala, to Thessaly, to the Peloponnese, to northern Greece. Investment 2020, with a new administration: from 151 million, 146 million and 137 million euros in the past three years, we went to 175 million investments, almost 20% increase. Investments EUR 2021: 211 million are the investments we believe will result in an increase of 35% this year. Provision for investment: 260 million in 2022, 337 million in 2023 and 2024 and then we will have over 400 million investments every year so that we can put - because you're already asking smart meters. But how are smart meters going to get in? Five years you haven't put anything in, you've put a few. Without investing, how would the smart meters get in? Smart meters, upgrading of medium voltage networks, electricity distributors to be able to enter more RES, to be able to claim, to become more photovoltaic on the roof. How are these going to be? With the old networks which you had reached from 400 million to the average investment, the annual investment to be held at a serious and operational level of EUR 130 million? In fact, all this is in a way that has been calculated so that it does not increase - because we will also take out the curve of network charges - the prices of network charges to consumers. Balanced investment programme. So is the company doing okay, or is it going bad? As regards staff, the 3K had emerged in 2014, which involved recruiting five hundred and thirty-four people at the time. These five hundred and thirty-four people were recruited in a five-year period, until 2019. The 7K that you had announced on your own day involved a hundred and fifty - eight persons. From 2015 to 2020, a thousand nine hundred people left. That is what we received from the DEDEN. You did nothing to have planned strengthening with new staff, skills, with a new world of the organization of the TEDO that you are coming now and you say how he does his job, which you had done nothing, not you personally, the administration of the Ministry and the administration of the TEDO at the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u48	The rest in your dentistry, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u49	I shall conclude, Mr President. Seven hundred and seventy-four people are recruited, already in the air, a hundred in May, sixty-four in June and, of course, a follow-up, if necessary, in the coming years to take a breath of the organization and be able to do the work it needs. The rest of this is because I have a lot to say, Mr President, in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u50	Mr. Femelle, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u51	Mr President, Minister, from the outset I have found that when you do not answer the written questions and come orally and tell us about other things, we find it difficult to get answers to this particular question. You haven't told us anything yet. I'm writing it down. You asked us how we assess the success of a body and I wonder. I have headlines for ping pong responsibilities that got Mr. Mitsotakis out of his clothes and concerned your ministry with the Ministry of Interior because one was putting the blame on the other when they had for four 24 hours without current the northern suburbs. This is how we measure the success of a body, which is why I ask you in particular. Workers are talking about two hundred thousand connections that fell. You're one of the victims, too. Up to seventy-two hours interruption in thousands of households up to seventy-two hours interruption. That's how we measure the results. You're telling me how we count if a body is successful. From the power cut to his customers, we count if he's successful. So the administration is not successful. He failed. The question is, does the political leadership control it and what has it asked for in this respect? So we're helping you. We asked you for the checks. Give them to us. I'll read them later, Minister. That is what I want you to answer. If you now measure the success of a business with the profits on the stock exchange table, I tell you that you're wrong. For an energy company serving two-thirds of the country's consumers, the success of having a cheap current. The political leadership of Skourletis - Stathakis downloaded 12% of the energy price in a timely memorial. You're the ones who put it up. High score Europe you did, on 1 July we were the most expensive country in the wholesale price of electricity. We'll talk about it in the next question. So this is how we measure the success of a manager and a political leadership. If you're going to have an extremely expensive energy source, you can all pay in here an expensive current to write the tableau a company of which you get bonuses for the Blue Children of PPC and of the DEDO, uh, you don't offer the country anything, Minister. Let the wild west dominate everywhere. So we ask you very specifically. The result of the bad weather "Medea" shows two thousand holidays up to seventy-two hours for thousands of households. It shows that you were not prepared, despite the fact that YENOP, which I see as much as the EIB - PPC had made suggestions to you in the management of the agencies to bring the workshops and prepare themselves and shows that you had a thousand five hundred trees in cables. This is the result of your own lack of preparation. That's how we measure the preparation, Minister. We can't count it differently. We're engineers. We know with the real data we're counting. So we ask very specific things: What was the number of pruning? Was it a visual inspection over the last two years? Did they get any TEDO crews out? Because we, Minister, know that they have not come out, but we want to be disproved. So get us the field statement for these workshops. How much money was spent on pruning? Who supervised the pruning? Because we know that staff is falling, as far as these critical units are concerned, on your own responsibility. Also, please tell me very much, what is the staffing of the supervision scales? Because we know - from what I saw from the establishment plan - that, together with the supplies of over-collected items in this House - and to say this to you, Mr President, and to get into the Minutes, we have asked the Bureau a question on this issue and you have not been here, Mr Minister, to answer and delay it for a six-month time, you may not have noticed it, I remind you that, for supplies of sanitary material, there is a question of urgency, I also made a document to the Bureau to remind you of ten days ago, it was the previous Minister, but it is strange that you should have taken over and not been informed, for the DEDN is again, the blue children have done so - and it has been the address of crises without having managers, Minister. We ask you these things, you tell us. We might be wrong. That's what I want you to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u52	Well, thank you, Mr. Famele.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u53	The stock market table says profits, but the citizens know a thousand five hundred trees cut out cables and two thousand households cut off the current. That is why, Minister, we are talking. I don't give you any more analysis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u54	He heard, sounded. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u55	However, someone who listens to you, with all due respect, Mr Colleague, I think he is convinced of your arguments against the questions you ask. The questions you have asked have been answered by the arguments you have put, by what you have said. You said a thousand five hundred trees fell, tree falls, not just branches. First of all, I'm going to tell you something, it's not a big deal, it doesn't matter, but the reality is, I was from morning to the other morning out with the TEN staff. I repeat, it does not matter. They were the ones who did the job and came from all over Greece. Over seven hundred specialized people came from all over Greece. There was a huge effort. No one can celebrate when even a house has five days without power. We can't celebrate about that. But the reality is, we have succeeded in a difficult environment. It was an environment of total destruction, with hundreds of miles of cable in the streets from tree falls. Thousands of logs had been cut off. It wasn't that they were touching some branches that just melted the snow up. They had broken logs. The cables had been broken, sieved concrete pillars, columns of the DEDP, PPC. Cement, not just wood! They were broken! And there was a titanic struggle, a huge business with executives from all over Greece, and with all the workshops there were specialists from all over Greece, of course so that we don't have facts like what we sadly mourned, we don't have accidents. These people tried at night, in tragic environmental conditions, with snowfall, from morning to morning, all days, to give power, connect, rebuild the network that was dissolved. In fact, we had a huge area of the north of Attica almost zero, because the cables had all been destroyed. No one can celebrate. And here I have the report on the impact of 'Medea' bad weather and I will give it to you. It's over two hundred ten pages. It shows the effort that has been made. [[At this point, the Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Konstantinos Skrekas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Something that I do not want to say could cause much more citizens to suffer. One had trouble for five nights, but I repeat, it was the situation that was a terrible thing to do with what these people have achieved. I repeat, how you say there is no staff when, on your day, a thousand nine hundred people have left the DEDEN. A thousand nine hundred! Not a hundred ninety, not even nineteen! And you say it's the government's fault. But anyway, it doesn't matter which government's fault. It's important that we have a situation. It's important that we've received it. There has been a huge effort and it has shown that it is the agency that can even be able to cope with an excellent physical phenomenon, even with these delays, which I repeat that no one can be proud of. But anyway, the project was completed and without accidents, and I got electricity from people. And I'll say one last thing. 30% more money had been allocated in 2020 for pruning compared to 2019, colleague. And that's where they were spent. There had been more investments, 30% more money to make the pruning, which are necessary and of course much more this year. And, as you know, we have announced - and it has already begun - a very ambitious sub-installation programme for the air-telecommunications medium-voltage transmission cables to prevent this from happening, because this is the solution. It's not the pruning when the torso breaks and the whole tree falls on the wires. The solution is grounding. Nothing happened - little to be fairer - the five years that SYRIZA ruled. We were already starting in April, May - I said that it would be at the beginning of the summer - in Tatoi, in other regions, in islands, in traditional settlements, in peri-urban forests that are dangerous and in danger of fire, a very ambitious grounding programme. More than EUR 70 million will be provided from the Recovery Fund and more of course through the new ESDP programming period coming. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u56	We continue with the fifth, with No 5978/577/14-4-2021 question and request for the submission of a letter from SYRIZA's MP, a Progressive Alliance Mr. Socrates Famelou, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: “The New Democracy Government plans to charge the electricity consumers with a new enlightenment and create two speed investors with the plan “Greece 2.0”. Mr. Femelle, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr President. I will see the document that the Minister has tabled for the previous question. I reserve it because there were many questions in the text. We don't know if they've answered. We will see if we are going to come back with the evaluation of the EDP in the "Medea" which, unfortunately, seems to be the result, Minister, whatever you say, is that the households have been left without power for too long because the inspections that had to be carried out were not carried out. It wasn't just pruning. I'm asking you, you're not answering. Mr President, the question we have concerning the special account of the RES was tabled on 14 April by forty-six Members in writing. And she didn't answer. We are in a difficult position to push in time to find difficult answers to something that needs to be done in writing to stay in parliamentary control, Minister. Although I have proved to you that at the end of the day, the Greek environmental organisations said that you kept the Recovery Fund in the debate - I proved it to you by names - one thing that emerged from publicity is that you are creating a provision of the Recovery Fund to create a new special account for renewable energy. So, beyond everything we have discussed about how much these issues need to be discussed, there is an issue that you admit that there is a matter in the previous account of renewable energy. Or how do you justify making a new special renewable energy account? And, of course, the question arises when you will be discussing it, what is the institutional maturation that has been created so far and why is the previous account insufficient, which you have received surpluses and now you want to build another one? Minister, you know that we had been on the alarm bell since September 2019. When Mr Hatzidakis wanted to hide the very big increases in PPC, which led to super-moneys of the blue children - let us not forget - we said then that when you reduce the EMSMAR, that is to say, the feeding of the special account of the RES, you will go bankrupt with the special account of the RES. You didn't hear us. Ultimately, the result is to retrospect and engrave all renewable energy sources. You received a surplus account and you went bankrupt, Minister. You're putting raisins on all the RES, putting raisins on oil and now it looks like you're burdening all the middle-voltage professionals. Approximately EUR 180 million shows that you charge them and come with a record of accuracy in electricity to create a new account for renewable energy. So the question is what the differences between the two accounts will be. Will you have a bad, bankrupt, old, and a new man who will fund the projects from now on? Why are two speeds created? That's what the question describes. I'm trying to be concise. Why are you creating this unequal competition, there are two accounts with different funding and at the cost of the consumer? These are matters which we would like you to answer in your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr. Femmel. They're made understandable. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes, warm request. We've gone far enough.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u59	Yes, Mr. President. Of course there is no good and bad ELPE account. Secondly, the special account, which pays, participates and covers the difference between a wholesale price, between a system limit price and the tarifs enjoyed by renewable energy sources. There's a difference. If, for example, the tarifa is 100 euros and the wholesale market, the average system limit value is 70 euros, there is a 30 euros difference. This is the account that covers this difference, so that there is no gap between those who have advanced RES investments. Where does he collect from? How does this bench fill up, this account? Of course, the EMFFAR paid by consumers of electricity in the country, from the auctions of carbon dioxide emissions to international exchanges and Europe's stock exchange and from elsewhere. These are the two main feeders on this account. This account will be profitable this year according to the estimates of the first quarter of the RAG which manages it. It's about 160-170m euros, if I remember well. According to the latest revisions, it can be more than EUR 200 million. The account as it stands today with the connected and injecting electricity into the system will have a surplus of about EUR 200 million this year. But what did we do to the Recovery Fund? It is a very important intervention. What did we say? Other renewable energy sources will be in place from now on. And most likely - we do not know - that we still have to participate by a percentage by supporting a difference between the feeds they enjoy and the system limit value. There is a will and a need for new products. For example, there are green energy certificates. There is a huge company, 'GOOGLE', and it buys green energy. It buys it more expensive than conventional energy because it wants to come from 100% renewable energy sources and has a certificate that certifies that the energy it has bought is green. They are the so-called certificates, the green certificates, the green certificates. We come and say, then, that we are going to create this product. I am sorry that Mr Skourletis had been legislated for your day, namely Mr Skourletis. I remember very well. Of course I said then it wouldn't work the way you do it. And it didn't work. There is this need for some companies that provide services or certain companies that produce products to communicate to consumers and recipients of services that this energy they consume is 100% green and it is not at all a burden. This thing for the transitional period we want to come and finance it in a way to support new RES with some money from this Recovery Fund. In this way, we can allow for greater penetration of RES in the system without the account being charged. It's very simple. It's not a nuclear physics. It's nothing strange, I don't think he's a bad critic. I think we should probably explain this better, talk about it. It is so that we can introduce new RES all this time that their tarifa is, in the end, greater than the limit value of the system. Of course, according to the last auctions that you have seen that the price of compensation for the PVs has come to be below EUR 40 when the average system limit price as you see at pan-European level, of course, we will say that at some other time - it has come to be close to EUR 90, EUR 80. The average is around 80 euros. It's the average system limit value, the average wholesale price per month. It's not a Greek phenomenon, of course. We are, as you know, connected and fully interconnected with the...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u60	Close, Minister. The rest in your dentistry. You've exceeded time enough.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u61	That is the purpose and nothing serves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u62	Mr. Famelle, you have the floor for your dentistry in three minutes, but be exact at three.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u63	Yes, Mr. President. I'll try. Minister, let's put them in a row. Firstly, if you responded in writing, and if you caused a parliamentary debate about what this new EPA might be, we would probably be much more aware than the people who are watching us about your answer because it is not understood yet because you are making another account. The fact is that the price of energy from renewable energy is actually falling. Why does it fall, Minister? Because SYRIZA made the framework of competitive procedures. Because you were only with hats and work with carpets and we did competitive procedures for the RES. Now the price falls, as you said, and we have cheaper green energy. Secondly, why will the RES account be surplus this year, Minister? Why did you put raisins on anything that moves on the energy market, from diesel to green energy producers? You didn't let anyone touch you. And you have left an open question whether you will also reduce the benefits of consumers from NGO cutting off the islands. You didn't answer that. Mr. Hatzidakis wanted to cut them off. We expect to see your own legislative initiative. So, Minister, the New Democracy has again bankrupt the RES account. This has written history. You went bankrupt in 2014. I would remind you that we took him with a deficit of 800 million. We made him positive in the Memorandum. We've established tools so he'll always have a surplus. And you came to the end of 2020 after Mr. Hatzidakis' terrible announcements and you said unfortunately that ELAP went bankrupt and we were engraved everywhere. Wasn't one monthly cut by all RES producers? All of them. You didn't ask them if they had to pay or not. You got them all. And the loans people had taken, everything. Didn't you put raisins on the petrol? You did. Why are you hiding all this? That's how he's going to get surplus for this year. But now you come and tell us that although we collect from consumers, we will create another account. And I'm telling you quite simply, what burdens will it carry to consumers? Why don't you keep the previous one, since it's overgrown now, after the new rafts of a New Democracy? Because it turns out that SYRIZA didn't put anyone in, and you put a lot on it. Twice you went bankrupt, in 2014 and 2020. I say this, Minister, because we have the following problem: we have terrible speculation and an increase in energy prices. And all this goes right into the energy price. You know, they're additional tariffs. Studying "EKPIZO" says that 1/3 of consumers are now having trouble paying the energy bill, beyond having several extra tariffs that go under the limit price clauses. You know that. And PPC's gonna put a hat in September, new raise. At the same time, as far as I can see from our industry, there are now official complaints that say - I will read it - 'No competitive operating energy costs, 40% greater costs than European competition, established oligopoly, do not form competitive prices'. So, Minister, you have allowed a cartel to power. That's what it's called. So I ask you to make a second account. You are making two speeds of renewable energy, without it being necessary. Forget the green certificates, they're not connected to the new account, they're another tool. Why are you doing good and bad RES, two bills - engravings to consumers, and at the same time the consumers 'houses' and the consumers 'industrial' tell you that it is no longer going 'with you in trouble'. That is what I ask you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u64	Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u65	They are linked, Mr Colleague, and you must understand that. Assuming we didn't have the recovery fund. We want to cover the new account through these green certificates. We want to create a new'supplier' account, which will be filled by those who voluntarily want - it is not compulsory - to buy a little more energy to have a green certificate. From this piece will come to fill this second part of the account, which will initially fill with the recovery fund money. I think that's understandable. In other words, at first this extra piece can finally help to reduce the existing part of ELAP. So if the buyers come in above and buy green certificates and so more money goes into the second part of the account, the first of course will be reduced. They're transporting cans.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u66	Is this coming with a legislature?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u67	First of all, we will have approval from the European Committee on Competition and Energy on the shape. It will then become a regulation either through RAE or through a legislative initiative. Of course, we will not do that as a country without the approval of the authorities.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u68	So you can't give me the Directorate-General's document I'm asking for.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u69	There's still no. Secondly, for what you said about the price rises, about LAPI and about the system limit value, at this time you know that we have energy assimilations. Do you know that there is an appreciation in energy at European level?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u70	It's 20 euros longer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u71	So how much was the wholesale price in Bulgaria last year and how much is it this year? It is 40% higher this year as much as it is in Greece. Because we have the so-called coupling, i.e. we have the linking of Greek and Bulgarian markets, many days we have exactly the same price. I will show you a few days in which if we don't have the same price, we have 3, 4 euros.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u72	It's 20 euros longer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u73	You haven't seen them well. See day-day. It's not secret anyway. We currently have a wholesale price of EUR 90, 95, 100 and there are 50 euros invoices. Is someone coming out to sell them? There's 50 euros in each megawattage now. Don't say things that are unnatural and unrealistic. What do you want to do? What would you do? This difference, how do you want us to fund it? Tell us who's gonna pay her? The RAE has asked all suppliers of a detailed statement, the energy cost structure, to prevent the phenomena of greed. If you think there's a horrendous gain, behold Rhodes, and fuck. Tell us who's a lobster.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u74	Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u75	Tell us, let's look at it! Tell us a name!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u76	Minister, 72 Bulgaria, 96 us. How is that possible?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u77	Minister, you're done. There's no other procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u78	I will show you the average system limit value for Bulgaria and the average system limit value for Greece at month and not day, day - because there are days that we have a cheaper price than Bulgaria - and then come see if something more is done in Greece than in Bulgaria. Bulgaria has nuclear power plants, we have no nuclear power plant. I repeat, come and see them. And if there's any horrific gain, please file a complaint. Who's a disgraceful winner?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u79	But I'm telling you!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u80	Who? What are you telling us?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u81	Minister, there are no such discussions on either side. Thank you. The seventh question will be discussed under number 901/28-6-2021 of the President of Heraklion's Change Movement, Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'Irrespective of the exclusion of municipalities of less than twenty thousand inhabitants from the invitation of the Green Fund'. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the Green Fund has a crucial role to play, having specific funding and resources coming from the whole of the territory. Actions and programmes that can, as the title of this programme says, be rejuvenated in the cities, and of course, there will be actions that will restore the environmental balance. Given that the measures of the recently made public programme include particularly necessary for all OTA sizes, involving complex urban renewals, interventions in the modern urban fabric, such as green planting, children's joys, upgrading of hikers, hikers, general renovation of OTA buildings and upgrading of schools or other actions, we were struck by the fact that this important invitation did not have the right to submit, except for the municipalities under twenty thousand inhabitants. Because such an event had also occurred in 2017 and the CED had reacted then to this option, there was a second call that restored things. Reference is made to the initial invitation for a second, but it is not mentioned whether it will be exclusively for municipalities of less than twenty thousand inhabitants, in order to restore this injustice. The question and aim of the question is precisely to inform the municipalities, where it is not clear, what is to be done with the smaller municipalities and the needs for the renewal and revitalization of the urban fabric that exists in the smaller cities, as it is not just in the large cities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u83	I, too, thank Mr Kegeroglu for keeping time. Minister, you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u84	I'll be perfectly brief. This is a misunderstanding, Mr President. Already the Green Fund - if it has not announced - will announce that the second invitation from 26 July to the end of the year for the municipalities of less than twenty thousand. I in Trikala three of the four municipalities I have is under twenty thousand inhabitants. It was therefore a misunderstanding and was not included in the first Green Fund communication the second period during which small municipalities will only be able to lodge applications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u85	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for your dentistry. Thank you, Mr President. Minister, there has been a second invitation, which of course concerns other actions, which includes all municipalities. This invitation, which has come out of 28 June, is characteristic and is mentioned - I will read to you the title - in the 'operational project to secure public spaces and public spaces'. So that includes all municipalities. It could well be that the first invitation to include it or to report it. Once there is a will, the initial invitation could mention it. But he didn't mention it. I would point out, however, that Mr Stathopoulos cannot send us paper and make us 'da', because that is not his role. And he tells us: "I've learned from the press like this. I will submit the information through parliamentary control." I'll testify for you to see. This is an institutional process. He's not allowed to fight us. Because we can do the same and not ask the Minister and do the same. I would ask that Mr Stathopoulos be informed of what the parliamentary procedure is. I thank you for the commitment that the municipalities, under twenty thousand, will be at the next invitation as exclusive recipients. If you can tell us the project budget too, it would be very good for the municipalities waiting for this announcement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. The Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Mr President. I think that the honourable Member's question has been answered. Let me say there will be a specific budget. From there on, let me say that it is the government's main priority to help the small municipalities, who are more populous, of course, of the big ones. We want to keep the people in the villages and towns, because it is very important, beyond regional development, for the country's overall development. It does not mean growth and we cannot achieve strong and sustainable growth unless we support the Greek region and, of course, the Greeks, who live and fight there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Minister, for having troubled you for two hours to answer seven topical questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u89	I'm less agitated.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u90	In fact, it was in the context, Mr Kegeroglu, what is called the 'opportunity question'. I do not want to comment on it, because we often get away from the topical question, or are generally asked, which is a question. Because the two-minute prology and the three-secondary, indeed, are not enough when general issues are involved. The two following questions will be answered by the State Secretary for Rural Development and Food, Mr Ioannis Economou. The first question will be debated under No 894/25-6-2021 of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Pella - Progressive Alliance Mr.Theodoras Jakris to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: ‘Procedure and time to pay advances of 40% to the trees farmers affected by the spring ices in March and April 2021’. Mrs. Jackres, you have the floor for your prototype for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, as you will recall, in a timely question discussed in May we discussed the spring ices and the great damage they caused to the huge economic tree-growing of Pella and Imathia. In fact, I should like to say here that what remains of the destructive glaciers was then completely destroyed by the equally devastating waves of hailing, which almost hit the entire Pella Regional Unit, perhaps the most devastating year in terms of theories and weather of the last 20 years. You remember then, Minister, I told you about the size of the damage to peaches, table and condolences, nectarines, apples, kiwi, plums, apricots and cherries in some areas. We are therefore talking about the whole agricultural production, which contributes, I would say, exclusively to the formation of the local economy, and it is also the driving force for some - I would say - related economic activities, which at the end of the day involve - local GDP. I am referring to processing companies, commercial enterprises, traders of inputs and supplies, transport companies, nurseries-related enterprises, as the majority of their turnover is shaped by agricultural production. So we are all aware of the danger we are discussing today. I told you at that time about the despair felt by producers, farmers and their families, who, in expecting an economic breath from the trade in their production, were literally found at absolutely zero, Minister, because this was never done, so today they are facing a problem of survival, as well as a very significant liquidity problem that is endangering even the continuity of their crops. There was, then, a press release that came out about fifteen days ago with the Minister for Rural Development, Mr Lebanese, who says that all the losses covered by the regulation will be covered by 100% of the insured value, that the total allowances will be paid after completion of the estimates, which are personalised, integer and objective, that the compensation will be fair and will be given on the basis of the loss recorded and, above all, on the basis of which we are here today, that an advance of 40% will be paid at the end of July on estimates at the total amount of EUR 150 million. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] As you can see, Minister, high expectations have been created for the Pella farmers. However, because we are in mid-July, what I would like to ask you today, to discuss details, is, firstly, whether the end-of-July milestone remains, as far as the payment of the 40% advances is concerned, as I said before. Let me ask you, of course, whether personalised assessments, as you said, will have been completed by then. What will the level of compensation per crop be? In particular, Minister, I would like to ask you whether these advances will concern, apart from those of farmers who have been damaged by frost and hazelnut farmers, since the damage is great there, and in any case, people have already done a great deal of effort to maintain the quality of their production.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u92	Finish it, Mrs. Jackie.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u93	As you can see, there is a request for the payment of advances to be made to them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u94	Minister, you have the floor for your prototype for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr President. There's no doubt about it. You said that, too, Mrs. Jackrey, in your question in your speech. We are living the worst year of disasters over the last fifteen or twenty years. This glacier has been the worst of the last 15 years, the damage caused in extensive regions of the country is unprecedented and, obviously, their consequences for incomes and producers as well as for the other sectors that support or maintain themselves in the primary sector, throughout the agri-food sector have suffered significant damage. From the first moment, the Prime Minister himself was able to determine the extent of disasters. Wherever we find ourselves, Mr Lebanese, Mrs Arabatzis and I are having this debate with the people who live in anguish, how they will be compensated and how they will be able to compensate for the damage - because, as you know, the loss of profits does not come out - to have an income to meet their obligations. Because the crop may have been destroyed, but crop care is there and requires energy and money to be made. So we didn't stay with your hands crossed. We've taken specific initiatives. First of all, the Minister for Rural Development and Food himself made the matter from a Greek European, if I may say so, this claim. Along with the French and Italians who had problems of this kind, we brought the matter to the Council of Ministers and we ask for extra funds. We also requested the European Commission's permission to use resources to compensate all the producers affected fairly and in good time. Secondly, we have received the communication we made, the press release, in consultation with the other co-legislative ministries, obviously also with the ELGA, in which we said that they would be compensated at 100% of the value of the insurance contribution paid by producers, those under the ELGA Regulation, and that they would be compensated by another financial instrument for those not covered by the ELGA Regulation. We will bring to the House the necessary legislative arrangements to do this. We'll make advance payments at 40% at the end of July, and we'll clear the compensation in time. After all, it is the first time that the ELGA has compensated, as in other cases in the previous period, for damages, at very close intervals and for the time that the disaster exists. In order to be consistent with these announcements, we have made the necessary steps to make, so that we have the assessments and the findings. We have tripled, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Jackson, the staff for the value-added work at the Veroia Office, for example, who are responsible for the assessments in your region and in the Pella Prefecture, where the damage to trees was indeed extensive. At this time, an estimated check is carried out from about a hundred and fifteen geotechnics. We are working so that we can be ready on time - it is early July - so that we can meet the commitment we have said. We have taken care to cover overtime, as necessary, to work as many hours as people need to get the findings on time. We have ensured the financing of EUR 3.5 million in order to be able to cover the cost of work required by experienced geotechnics, so that we can move forward in this direction. And, of course, on the basis of the findings and estimates we will have on time, we will proceed with the compensation of 40%, with the main priority that our producers should take money in their hands at about the same time as they would take money into their hands and from the supply of their crops. More I'll tell you in my denture.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u96	Mrs. Jackres, you have the floor for your dentistry for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u97	Mr Minister, as I have said, you have created high expectations for the producers of Pella and Imathia that they will be compensated, i.e. they will receive an advance - what we are asking today - 40% of their estimates at the end of July. And that you know is a one-way road so they can survive, as you confessed and admitted here. I fear, however, that from what you have already said to me and from the reality, as it stands, you will unfortunately once again go under the bar and their worst fears will be confirmed. Let me tell you why, Minister? Because according to the local ELGA office today, it is inside of July - you understand - and it has only been 25% to 30% of the estimates on the declared areas, Minister. And this is because despite the fact that you say that you have received a hundred and fifteen people, this human potential - the geopolitics and the assessors always mean - it is not what is necessary, what is needed to make the assessments considerably progress. Let me tell you, Minister, that the damage is enormous. In peaches, damage is more than 60%. Look. We are talking about a region of Pella and Imathia, where in previous years we did not know what to do with peaches, and this year imports are being made. Also, the damage to plums, for example, is more than 90%. That's about the picture for apricots too. This is the image of the rays as well. This is the image of apples as well. I do not think there was a lot of hammering, which has led to a devastating catastrophe. Minister, always according to the estimates of the service of the local ELGA, the branch of the Veroia ELGA, the personalized estimates will be completed in October for the ice and after Christmas, after the new year for the hails. You realise, Minister, that if you go to give advances in October or after Christmas for the hails if you give them too, this is the time when you should have made a full repayment. I am afraid, Minister, that if you want to be consistent with your commitment to writing, as the masses and local Members of Parliament reproduced in their local announcements, you will have to pay advances at the end of July, you will have to pay these advances on the basis of producers' declarations and not personalised estimates, which I have told you when to complete. Otherwise, Mr Minister, you will have left this critical juncture, the most devastating year of the 20th that I have told you, the farmers of Pella, Imathia and other regions, who have suffered such damage, in their mercy, to face a problem of survival and a problem of the continuation and preservation of their own crops, as you have seen. Let me not remind you, of course, that you are talking about 'Janue' compensation, i.e. compensation as soon as possible to 100% of the insured value and compensation up to the last euro. What do we see? A regular ELGA compensation procedure that goes with the araba, as it was in previous years, to take into account what was taken over the years. You have in no way included and taken into consideration the extraordinary situation this year and the problems it creates in the survival of the people of farmers and in the continuation of their crops. Not to say, of course, about your commitments with a number of government actors who visited Pella. Thank God we're full of visits. And who didn't come? President of ELGA, Vice-President of ELGA, Minister of State. And what were they telling us? We were told that we would relieve you of the estimated fees, because we understand that you do not have liquidity this year - and the estimated fees have finally been paid by farmers - and that we will set off your insurance contributions. Nor did that happen, and you've forgotten, you've put it on the timeline of history. In order not to tell you that we need a comprehensive plan for manufacturing, commercial operations, which - as I have said to you - are affected by the ice-cream that happened this year in the Pella trees, where there was to be an integrated plan through LEAEC - I do not know what they are called - vocational training of managers employed in the agricultural sector in a permanent way because they cannot be paid by cooperatives. Supporting cooperatives, bank regulation aid program, reduction of interest rates so that you can make a total intervention in the entire local economy affected. Nothing about it, zero on the clay. And I'm saying it again. The cubit has risen up high from you. These are announcements and these are words that have been said by you, by the political leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development, as reproduced by the local MPs and by all the other members of the government's mechanism relating to agricultural production. Sadly, though, I see you're not even coming to the cubit, but you're going to be very under him.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u98	Thank you very much, Mrs. Jackie. Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor for your dentistry for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr President. Madam President, it is one thing to express one's anxiety about the way in which the people who have suffered this heavy blow from this unprecedented icy weather will be compensated and it is a second thing that the government should be invoked for the way in which it manages all the compensation in the difficult times of the producers or stands at the side of the primary sector, as has been demonstrated many times. As far as the first part is concerned, I've answered you. Obviously your interest can only be authentic, people in your region have been hurt. And we told you specific things what we were doing, what we started both inside and outside Greece, how we approached it and how with a process that ensures speed, justice and efficiency we will stand on the side of all those who were affected and work for this way to be consistent, as we said in the summer. As far as the second one is concerned, however, ladies and gentlemen, when one comes to this criticism and in this debate, it must be taken into account what has happened in the past, how has the insurance body beenhaved and not for any other reason, because those who are listening to us have experienced it, have felt it. Producers know that an advance on the frost has never been paid before. They know the producers, my fellow Member, that ELGA has never compensated as soon as the last two years. The producers know that during the last period there was not even a single attempt to improve legislation in order to have greater flexibility in the behaviour of the organisation, as we are now going to do. They know that for four and a half years there has been no proportionate study and a deficit of insurance has been delivered, which should have been done to prepare and shield better in the face of climate change, in view of the new incidents that we are facing, the reality of the unfavourableness that our producers have to face at a time that is not pleasant because of the horn pandemic. Therefore, when we talk about wider issues, we must have them very well in mind, but for what we are talking about in the world, because at the end of the day all the rest is a matter of political confrontation which must be brought to an end when the one who has been damaged is struggling for how to continue growing care and how to continue to have an income in the years to come. The work that is being done at this time is to have the findings on time and, in any case, to have that picture that will allow us to start giving people advances within the summer and in October, November, in the autumn, we will proceed to pay compensation in a way that is scientifically substantiated, that is essentially fair, that leaves no one alone and, above all, will create phenomena, that does not create cases in which injustice will also be blatant and that all producers will be lost. This is the philosophy governing the functioning of the ELGA since the first moment of this governance. This philosophy will be served by the institutional interventions that will come very quickly in the House and I imagine that you, like the whole of the Greek Parliament, will vote. And always in that sense saying truth, not by saying things too much to be exquisite, but honestly, because the relationship of confidence that we have built with the Greek producers is too expensive for us and in this government, ELGA is not going to issue promises of uncovered cheques, we will be on their side whenever they need us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, too. We continue with the 11th question under number 907/28-6-2021 of the Member of the Hercules of the Change Movement Mr.Kingarou Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the subject: 'Increasing the budget of the programmes of young farmers and improvement projects'. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for your prototype for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u101	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I believe that you have accepted farmers' indignation. You have to come to their place, and they are essentially successful in the evaluation of the programmes at the same time today after five years of bureaucratic procedures, they are given the answer that they are not finally able to join the programme and are considered to be perpetrators. While they are successful, they realise at the same time that the long-lived process followed by both the previous government of SYRIZA and the time that you are government has led to a gradual reduction in the budget in order to cover the rule n+2 or n+3, because the delay in evaluation imposed it on the basis of the more general rules. But when the time has come to fund, beyond the delay of the six more months until the decisions are made, we tell him "you didn't have time to make it, you lost". The second element that makes him more indignant is that at the same time the government - and not only the government and all the political parties almost - is saying that there must be a resumption, investment, a rapid recovery, so that we can see economic and social activity redirect, so that we do not have more problems than the pandemic has already caused. So while there are these two elements, and with a previous debate, it seems that you do not want to be legally financed - in relation to national law and in relation to European, normally - the process of completing this programme of improvement, since it is well known that the European Union has given us the opportunity to relax the rules for the Rural Development Programme, as well as for the Recovery Fund. So while there is this need, while the farmer has been afflicted, we want to see today how we can get much faster than the three, four, five years that we will have to go back to, re-examine, re-evaluate, say 'you are successful' while it is today. Why would it go after three and four years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u102	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor for your answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, Mr President. The primary sector throughout its value chain is, without doubt, the foundation for the change of the new common agricultural policy, the biggest change since the 1990s, a common agricultural policy, which despite the fact that its budget has been considerably reduced in relation to the previous periods, the country has, in particular, achieved, thanks to the interventions of the Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis himself, last October, to provide approximately the same money as the previous programming period, about 19.2 billion, which will be available for aid and investment in the primary sector of our country at a time when the CFP for the other Member States - the European Union - has achieved major reductions. In order to achieve what we want, to make the primary sector the foundation for development, obviously, and we need to emphasise a number of things that impose our farmers' equipment, strengthen them, shield them with those instruments that will allow them to become more competitive, more resilient, more extroverted and, above all, help demographic renewal, that is, they will also enable young people to connect their lives to the countryside, connect their lives to primary production. In both these directions we have taken concrete measures, always sincerely and always oriented, how the measures we take will be in line with the requirements of the new common agricultural policy, which differs in several respects from what we have known up to now and how it will lead our producers so that they do not lose any aid, but that they, being much more competitive, can gain even more. With regard to the issue of improvement plans - which we have answered several times here in the Chamber, to topical questions and to written questions, we have explained them to the producers themselves on our tours across Greece - the reality is as follows. The previous improvement plans were launched in November 2017, after many years that had to be published and the notice expired in October 2018, an unprecedented period of validity. The budget of the measure was 317,000 000 and the total proposals submitted were 116 000 000 or, at any rate, that of the order of magnitude. Looking at the increased demand and in order to make the conditions as far as possible possible, the budget has increased from 417,000 to 600,000 000 and within these 600,000 000 have entered - because the programme is competitive, that is to say, you get a score if you meet the criteria and depending on the rating you are eligible or ineligible, which anyone knows - those people whose rating was allowed to be in this category and to implement. How many stayed outside? There were about three thousand eight hundred applicants left, the total cost of which could be covered, and they were 215,000 more. In other words, they had to find themselves, beyond doubling the budget, 215,000, 000 to get these people in. What did we do when we faced this story? First of all, we have asked whether we have the institutional capacity to find a way to include them and the response from the European Commission - we have tabled it in the Minutes, I can give you it again - was absolutely negative. Why was it completely negative? For two reasons. Because the programming period had expired in which there was a reference point for the measure. It was the period 2014-2020. We are already in 2021, in the transition period. Secondly, they were not just exhausted, but they had more than doubled the money in this measure. Even if the answer were positive, could we find resources to support this demand, this need for people who would reasonably like to benefit and strengthen and get into this measure? The answer is no, because there was no money for the remaining measures in the Rural Development Programme. We had two things there, which I shall refer more specifically to in my dentistry, Mr President. We should not take any measures entirely competitively, not least for our producers, even in view of the new programming period, but even if we did not do so - which would be at the expense, I repeat the primary sector and their competitiveness - the money would not be enough. I am going to deal in detail with secondary issues because we are doing these measures both for the purpose of armoring and for the possibility of investing producers in the new programming period.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u104	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, let's take a look at the absorption of the program. It's 67.85%. Let's see this program. This program has absorbed 387,000,000. Let us see if the competitive sectors have actually been financed. I will present to you here the chart showing that this programme that was over-paid was the programme of compensation, of direct aid. So the production criterion and the competitive criterion must also be found in the other programmes, which are very backward and specifically in the improvement plans. The improvement plans are a financial instrument that is proven to be effective for rural development. That is why, as you said yourself, there was such a great deal of interest, such a great offer. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] We believe that it can - and can - be a bridge programme, which can be financed if you say that there is no resources. We say there's been a redistribution. If redistribution is not allowed now, the previous period was allowed. We are not talking about today alone. The previous period could have been redistributed. It didn't happen. Today we are talking about the programme could be financed either from national funds, either from the Recovery Fund or otherwise, if you say that the European Union does not allow for the realisation of these programmes. And once the programme has been financed, all those who have succeeded in implementing, an act necessary for the recovery in the agricultural sector, come this and become the bridge with the new CAP, which, of course, provides for this process of improvement plans. It is well predicted and it could well be connected to a bridge program. That is our view, that this could and can be done. Why? Because it's necessary for the country. You quite rightly said that in 2017 the programme was announced. Can I tell you when the corresponding decision you made these days was made? In 2014. In 2014, we had approval of the CAP. Since 2014, then, it has been three years. 2017 is the notice. I would therefore like to add three more years to the notice and three more to be implemented. "About May", after five six years to see improvement plans again. No, I think you should do this in this way, even with a loan programme from the recovery fund that provides for loans, finance this bridge programme and then come from the new CAP or in any case ask the European Union for approval so that it can be granted from the Recovery Fund or other resources, not only by redistribution that you say they did not accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, Madam President. It is true that we have at our disposal for the next period of financial instruments to support very substantially modernisation, development, investment and other interventions in the primary sector. However, this does not mean that all money can be transferred to all actions or complement weaknesses and deficits of other programmes. Regularly, it cannot be done. It's other money, other rules. A common target, but in a different way. It is another thing that we have at our disposal for the primary sector from the Recovery Fund, which we will make use of for large-scale infrastructures, for improvement projects, for crop restructuring, for interventions in processing, for linking primary, secondary, tertiary sector, for producer groups and organisations, for individual producers, so that they become more competitive and to increase the intervention and scope of their agricultural holding, and another thing that is the money of the Agricultural Development Programme during the current period. They can't transfer money to different things, to other program periods, to measures of different philosophy. I said in my theory that even if there were the possibility, we would be faced with the unpleasant option not to draw up programmes dealing with agricultural advisers, 80 million for the free access of our farmers to an extensive network of advice, which will help them to become more effective in their farms for the entire range of farming activities. We must not take the second part of the research and innovation programme, namely the combinations of research institutes and universities producer groups, a budget of EUR 65 million. Not to take out small irrigation that enables and using photovoltaic and renewable energy to drop the cost of irrigation, about EUR 37 million. And all of this together would not be enough to cover the amount of money needed to put in and the perpetrators. Mr Kegeroglu - I say this to you coming from a rural prefecture and many times in practice you have shown your interest in the producers of Heraklion and Crete and in general, but also in the producers who are listening to us - we are not sitting with our hands crossed. A contract notice for young farmers of EUR 4000 million is expected in September, with the largest installation premium of all the corresponding programmes in the past. New plans for improvements of 180-200 million are expected, which will also have the right to apply for '16' - '18 which have been cut and those who are now unable to make use of the resources and the new ones - obviously all the producers - who will apply for and join the new programme of young farmers. The notice will come out in October. Procedures and measures will be faster, more substantially, faster - we learn from the past - than they were in previous periods, so that we can get results quickly and in time. And next to them we also have the resources of the Recovery Fund for similar measures, which will enable Greek producers, farmers, farmers, cooperatives, producer groups, to become more competitive so that they can play the part we want to transform our productive model. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, too, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs presents its reports on the draft laws of the Ministry of Finance: First. ‘Under the Agreement amending the Agreement on the Transfer and Mutualisation of Contributions to the Single Resolution Fund between the Kingdom of Belgium, the Republic of Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, the Kingdom of Denmark, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Republic of Estonia, Ireland, the Hellenic Republic, the Kingdom of Spain, the French Republic, the Republic of Croatia, the Italian Republic, the Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, Hungary, the Republic of Malta, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Poland, the Portuguese Republic, Romania, the Republic of Slovenia, the Slovak Republic and the Republic of Finland’. Two. ‘Under the Agreement amending the Treaty establishing the European Stability Mechanism between the Kingdom of Belgium, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Republic of Estonia, Ireland, the Hellenic Republic, the Kingdom of Spain, the French Republic, the Italian Republic, the Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, the Republic of Malta, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Republic of Austria, the Portuguese Republic, the Republic of Slovenia, the Slovak Republic and the Republic of Finland’. We move on to the second with reference to the cycle of petitions - questions by the Member of Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Building downwards on the Arkalochori municipal road". The State Secretary for Infrastructure and Transport will answer Mr. Ioannis Kefaloyiannis. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, with regard to the issues of the airport that you are dealing with, in fact, with some solutions, even late, because the project is going ahead on the basis of pre-students and, in fact, a lot of retrospective issues. At this time we are focusing on the road to serve the airport and the problems it causes, since after its completion it will be difficult to deal with, even if they are easily treated today. What do I mean? You gave a solution after the proposal and the municipality for the downward passage to the village of Archangelos, which was an important issue and had a moral dimension, and we now have to discuss the Arkalochori-African municipal road. It's a stripped road, and I stress it, because I was told by the services that on paper it seemed dirt road, but it was obviously older. What are we asking for on this road, which is a municipal road? We call for technical work to be done downwards - it is the best possible - so that traffic does not stop and that there is no need to do two miles or one kilometre more, depending on their choice. On Saturday he had a mobilization, the club had been called upon to deal with problems from the construction of the airport. We went there and in addition to the general discussions, there was an on-the-spot visit along with technicians. In fact, at the intersection point there is no great elevation difference so that it can be done technically. It is necessary to humiliate the municipal road and possibly to raise the airport road built or too much humiliation of the other road. We are not talking, of course, about the downward passage of five meters or anything else. We're talking about crossing which serves small vehicles, pedestrians, etc. At about seventy meters away, however, from there there is a great altitude difference and could alternatively, if you consider it to be costly and technically difficult, there is. I say these alternatively, but there is the clause in the concession agreement that, for what has not been provided for and is considered necessary, and this need is found not only by local bodies and the municipality, as is the case here by the Community Councils of Arkalochori and Cassanos who have made the relevant document but also by the technical services, that it is important to ensure that the inhabitants of the region are not troubled, there is the possibility for you to award TERNA, according to the concession agreement, namely the contracting company, the construction of this project. And if that is the case, it must be done now that the road is still under construction. It'll be a gift later. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u110	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u111	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Colleague, I will begin with the remark you have made. The leadership of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport has shown a flexibility in the question of correcting certain manifest issues that had arisen during the pre-study. You have already referred to the issue of the Archangelos and Sklaxrochori area. We did, in fact, discuss it in this Chamber after the debate that we had with the timely question you raised. We did the necessary actions, and at the moment the design is for the creation of underground pedestrian crossings. So, keep in mind that where we can technically proceed to actions which are really practical, there is no need, if you like, to do so. With regard to the Arkalochori-Pylis local road, which serves similar farms, it is a fact that it is interrupted by the road linking the new airport to Kastelli with Heraklion-Viannos road. It is assumed that this provision creates a number of difficulties for farmers in the region, since access to the farms on either side of the road now requires a little tour on the side network. I'll explain why I'm talking about a little perimeter. You will probably be aware that according to the approved study, it is not planned to build the lower passage at the intersection point. I, too, addressed the Ministry's servants and, for some technical reasons, did not predict the lower passage with the most serious of all to be the following: yes, indeed, at this moment, the road may be asphalt, but during the period of premeditation, this road was a rural, it was a short-range dirt road and therefore based on the conditions of that time, it was not justified to create a lower passage at that point. What I would like you to keep, however, without going into technical details yet so that I do not abuse time, is that if we are now doing this intervention, this might lead to significant delays in the project schedule due to the need to modify the geometry of the additional cost link over the conventional section of construction studies, new expropriations, and also to amend environmental conditions. I will say more in my dentistry, Mr Colleague, after listening to your remarks.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u112	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u113	So because, Minister, we had information on the road that he was not insecure, we looked to see when the road went off. It was unsecured in 2008. The concession contract was signed in 2018, ten years later. Alas, were they premeditated with 15 years ago plans? One of the prisoners. Secondly, it is not a road that serves rural areas. It's a mistake to intel. It is a municipal road that unites the community of Arkalochori with the court, Kassanos, Karavados and, of course, regions with Nipiditos and other communities. But it is a very basic road. This traffic serves the decongestion of the provincial road and should, in fact, go from the high-level node already planned on the airport road to the Arkalochori - Gazepi - Milos - Viannos, which means what? That on a level node will pass chess vehicles, tractors, motorcycles and others, which are usually for communication with the fields you want or with the settlements are vehicles that do not move on fast-moving roads and we will have a reduction in safety. Not to say it will be too dangerous to drive this whole traffic of agricultural, scaffolding machines from the airport street. It's wrong, because it's not an unequal node, it's a level, which means a circular node through which it's going to pass. Therefore, because there is the difficulty, without changing the road study, and without needing expropriation, the humiliation of the municipal road today - which has the potential - can give us a solution. I do not want to exclude and reject what is said about technical difficulties. However, I would say that another effort will be made by the agency in cooperation with the company and if it considers that this is not the case, exactly seventy-five meters south of the country, which is three metres. The grounding of three measures gives us the opportunity to build the technical work downwards. And we're not talking about a five-foot bottom crossing. We are talking about downwards of at least two and a half meters, as is provided for in the technical specifications, pedestrians and motorcycles, which will serve small vehicles, scaffolds and tractors, and agricultural vehicles which are not a good thing to take them on the road to the airport. That's a mistake. They can't understand it? We'll have accidents from the outside. A hundred grand is going down the hall? Let's tell us how much construction is. A hundred and twenty grand? That's all it is. Is it not worth it for a billion-dollar project to make this intervention? I believe that you, too, consider this to be the case. So I do not want to insist today on an answer that will close the subject anyway, because it is really necessary for the technicians to tell us, but I would like your interest to explore it further - even the closest point I am proposing to you to see - and if it is done, without changing the marginal geography of the road - because that is what this is, we do not want to change so that it is not delayed - to be able to walk down the path in this particular case. And there's no need for a different study, because whatever happens, it's going to be done with what happened to Archangelos, which is going to go at the same time. Otherwise, the problem will be in the inter-institutional area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Mr. Colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u115	Mr Colleague, I will repeat what I said in my prology that we in the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport are trying, as far as possible, to correct certain issues that were not raised in the premeditated phase. And, in fact, when the premeditation took place, this road - I will tell you once again - seemed rural, it seemed like a dirt road, regardless of whether it was then asphalt. We will proceed with the necessary traffic access. But it is good, because our fellow citizens are also listening to us down, to raise certain specific issues. I referred to the beginning of my protology in a small perimeter. At the moment, the existing route that people have to take in order to have access to their farm assets is about a thousand metres. The perimeter as a whole is a thousand four hundred meters. I mean, history is about these four hundred meters. So there is no question of a lot of divergence if we go to that logic. Also, it will be a route that you know very well that it will have better geometrical features, so also issues of better road safety. There is also the argument that agricultural vehicles - I think you have said so in your second language - will have to enter a high-speed road. However, the high-speed road, Mr Colleague, to which you refer, is the sideway network of the motorway and not the motorway itself, which is built precisely to serve the same property.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u116	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u117	I have the map, Mr. Comrade. In the end, I'll show you. Let me finish. It does not, therefore, prohibit the use of agricultural vehicles in this matter, which, moreover, is happening in Greece on all motorways. I also heard the argument for a small landfill of two and a half, three metres. However, I think - and you have also suggested this - that this point, unfortunately, is not two and a half metres, three metres. According to the technical specifications, an extension of five and a half metres will be needed, which technically leads to a very large cost. It also creates some adventures, possibly, for further expropriations. In any case, this can lead us to further delays in environmental terms. In any case, my colleague - and I think that will cover you - I will take these comments into account. However, as is now the point that has been pointed out, it is not the easiest thing to do quickly, without further costs and without the risk of further expropriations, therefore delays. In any case, if there's any other alternative, we'll consider it. But, as it is now, it will be difficult.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u118	Let's have a meeting.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u119	I'd love to. I'm always at your disposal and you know it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, Minister. We are now moving on to the fourth with number 6353/28-4-2021 question of the circle of petitions - questions by the MP of Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: ‘Required measures to support the owners of passenger public service (E.D.) Car TAX’. The question by my colleague will also be answered by the State Secretary for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr Kefaloyannis. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u121	Thank you very much, Madam President. Taxi is a branch that, along with the others, was affected by the pandemic. At the same time, however, there were already problems that had to be addressed. The state, however, has been delayed in giving solutions. Because the question I have put to many ministries, it has too many questions, I will confine myself to some concerning your ministry and your responsibilities. The main question I ask you is whether there is a programme for the renewal of the fleet of taxi cars, of course, either electrically or hybridly, or EURO 6, and whether, at the same time, this programme will enable the fleet to be renewed, see the issue of extension until then because of the failure to replace the old vehicles. You know that until December 31, 2021, it expires for about six thousand cars - maybe more it is, I'm not sure about the number - the possibility of moving. If such a programme is called upon to be able to extend for a short period, so that they too can participate in the programme. We've got the nine-month thing. It is a constant request to have the possibility of a nine-month taxi. With a taxi, isn't it? I'm talking about it. I would like us to know the intentions of the Ministry to implement a programme. An issue that has gone ahead in Europe. In what way? If you are able to tell us the criteria by which this conversion could take place and the license in a nine-month taxi. We also have the issue of the checks and the uninterrupted functioning of the special digital platform of the Ministry of Infrastructure related to rented ICUs with a guide to safeguard the project. That is to say, there is no interrogation and dispute between the social groups. In particular, this concerns gateways to airports, ports, where this possibility exists. In this respect, Minister, we want answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u122	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Colleague, I would like to agree with you that the sector of owners and taxi drivers has gone through and continues to have a difficult time because of the pandemic. And it is certain that this situation has caused structural problems, as well as many of the sufferings of taxi operation, which should have been dealt with for too long regardless of the pandemic. And, of course, motorists should also be adapted so that their operation is in a new environment as internationally shaped in passenger transport. However, it is good, Mr President, in this Chamber, that certain truths are spoken and specific figures are transmitted, because, many times, perhaps even, I would say, opposition to good mood, we often get carried away or get informed about certain specific data in the sector. The truth is that the government was represented in the industry as well as in the other branches of the economy tested by the pandemic. More than 100 million were allocated to support the taxi industry. In particular, 72 million have been given to thousands of professionals and businesses through the repayable advance. In fact, more than 2/3 of the industry’s operators and drivers received the refund. Those who did not receive it were those who could not justify a reduction in their turnover. Another 15 million were granted as special-purpose compensation and 22 million were granted to a very significant number of drivers. In fact, eight thousand two hundred eighty-one. These, Mr Colleagues, if our sums are about EUR 110 million, which have been allocated precisely to strengthen the sector in the last eight months. However, there were also institutional interventions from the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport. More importantly - you have said so in your protology too - it is that an extension has been given until the end of the year for the obligation to withdraw vehicles because of the end of the age limit. Many of them ended in the first months of 2021. Thus, an indirect aid was granted to the landlords who were affected. The power of driving licences was also extended, so that people would not bother, in the midst of a pandemic, to go conspiring or entering the renewal process. Because in your question you spoke about the special subsidy to the TENOSE and the TENOSE standards, my colleague, that it is obvious that the reason for this has been done to these transporters is that it has been imposed because of the pandemic of restriction on positions. You know very well that regardless of people entering a taxi, in introductorys or tarifa is one. That is where no one can talk about restricting positions. And that was the only reason why this special compensation was not granted to the other carriers. In any case, I think that this sector has also been given sufficient support in the crisis. From there on in my dentext, so as not to abuse your time, I will also tell you the other institutional actions that we will take immediately in order to help the industry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, too, Minister. My colleague has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u125	I do not want to expand, however, as I have said before, thankfully there has been a return and all the ministries have to say about the returnee. This is a fact, regardless of industry and industry. Since Mr Skylakakis has also come, I have told him that there was this measure to fill gaps in policies and, above all, in the banking system and I am referring more generally to the economy. I am not going to concentrate, however, on what I said about the fleet renewal programme, either with hybrids or Euro 6 anti-corruption technology, to see what the Ministry is going to promote in the next period - this is very important - coupled with a slight extension even where you may have to go beyond the extension that you have already given and mentioned, and of course, tell us about the subsidisation of the RESME travel agents, due to their adaptation to the new technology that is important. From the point of view of taxi owners, it is a very important thing, as well as the issue of the ninety-nine. The seven to nine taxi stations are very important to know if they are in your intentions and what you intend to do with them in the next period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u126	We too, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u127	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Colleague, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport has been launching a constructive dialogue with the industry for some time now, and we are prepared in the next few weeks to table a new draft law on driving licences, to include a number of institutional arrangements dealing with chronological issues in the sector. But before I go into that, I will answer what you said about cabotage. Yes, we are already committed by 50% to providing a cost subsidy to a number of drivers who had installed or wanted to install this useful tool in their work. As far as the requests from the industry are concerned, I should just like to tell you that in the draft law which we will be tabling in the next few weeks, as I have said, in the House until the end of the month of next, the industry's request to allow, for example, the placing on the market of used taxi vehicles for which the procedure of the regulation has not been followed in good time will be as a provision. Also, the industry's proposal to amend the conditions for the renewal of a special taxi licence, in order to cross-check beyond the initial authorisation stage, the fulfilment of the taxi driving qualifications. This is, in fact, a part of road safety. It will also include the need to regulate matters still further with the existing institutional framework, concerning the granting of an ideal share right, i.e. a co-ownership on the registration of a passenger public car, for example in cases where an ideal share is granted on grounds of non-acceptance of a legacy or an ideal share of less than 50% due to loss or irrevocable withdrawal of the right of movement, which is also a demand for a fixed share in the industry. A provision will be included on the issues of setting up disciplinary taxi councils in regions with more than one transport and communications directorate in order to ensure that those councils operate properly, and on the timely examination of the penalties provided for by the offenders. A provision will also be included to replace existing special driving licences with a new form of plastic license with increased safety standards in the standards of driving licences for conventional vehicles, in order to address the phenomenon of taxi driving with fake forms of special driving licences. With regard to the issue of five-and-a-half months, it is also in a constructive dialogue with the industry on the one hand to serve the need for nine-and-a-half months in the tourist areas, but on the other hand to do so on certain terms which will not create unfair conditions of competition both in relation to other modes of transport, but I would also say between the owners of a taxi who will remain on a five-seat licence. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] As far as - and I close with this, Madam President - the subsidy for the purchase of a new vehicle is concerned, it should be made clear to those who are hearing that the subsidies from the European funds are first if not only a condition for reducing emissions of pollutants. Therefore, vehicles - because I have heard something about Euro 6, for example - which do not contribute in this direction, cannot be financed from European funds. And that must be understood by the industry and by those who hear us that it is something that cannot be done on the basis of the European institutional framework. So a taxi subsidy, for example, for a Euro 6 diesel technology cannot be possible. But I would remind you that the government has already implemented one - I would say - a brave incentive scheme mainly for electric vehicles through the 'Electricity Movement', and this has already been extended this year with even more incentives. We are also in a process of discussion with the industry and if we need to increase the sums there, so that what we see in the conventional vehicles that the fleet has doubled from last year to the electrics to start in the cabs. And in any case, we are one of those who will be supporting and giving concrete economic incentives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u128	Thank you, too, Minister. Colleagues, the ninth Question No 904/28-6-2021 by Mr Kegeroglou, Member of the Heritage Committee, on the issue of 'A solution for recognition of legacys from the Register', is not discussed in consultation. Also, the tenth under No 906/28-6-2021 topical question by Hercule Hercules of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Digital Governance, on the subject: "A solution to recognition of legacys from the Register", will not be discussed with consultation. The second one under number 890/23-6-2021 is the first question of the Athens Western Sector of the Change Movement Mr. Konstantina (Nandias) Giannakopoulou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The legislative intervention to protect the public - forest character of the Mount" will not be discussed as a result of a blockade by the MP. Also, they are not debated because of lack of responsibility: The fifth, with no number 899/28-6-2021, is the second time question of the Larissa Parliamentary Movement Mr.Evangelias Ligolis to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: 'Unjustifiable to exclude municipalities of less than twenty thousand from the invitation of the Green Fund' and the second, with number 898/28-6-2021, the second time question of the second cycle of the MP Larissa of the Change Movement Mr.Evangelias Liangolis to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: 'Openers now, everywhere!'. The first question under number 891/25-6-2021 will be discussed in the first cycle of SYRIZA's MP for the first cycle - the Progressive Alliance Mr. Christos Giannoulis to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: “Strengthening the police force of the General Police Directorate of Thessaloniki from extensive secondments”. The question will be answered by the State Secretary for Civil Protection, Mr. Eleftherios Economou. Mr Christos Giannoulis has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u129	Thank you very much, Madam President. I will follow the advice of the President-in-Office, Mr Berras, to stay on the subject of the timely question, Minister, because I fear that as dealing with lawlessness, as you said two years ago, it was one of the three pillars of deception by Greek citizens, we are in the unpleasant position about two years later - tomorrow, you will be completing two years of government service - to reproduce regular Mitsotakis and in the case of the rational management of personnel in police forces. In other words, it is always the fault of everyone else, there is no bravery for taking responsibility and any practices that have been used in the past - to confess to it - are expanding, increasing numbers and becoming an inefficiency tool for the Greek Police. And I explain: I will not stay in more detail, it develops within the timely question how and why a serious problem of staffing and adequacy has arisen at the Directorate-General for Police of Thessaloniki. The outrageous is how. At the same time, extracts from various parts of the country to the General Police Directorate of Thessaloniki are being extracted at the same time as the General Police Directorate of Thessaloniki to other parts of the country. I beg your pardon very much, but with common sense that's not working somewhere. And if it were to happen in the past - it is the immediate answer, if you have the courtesy and kindness to include older governments and not to return everything to SYRIZA again - to the extent that it is now provoking. It's on the point of comicotragic evolution. Look at the fact that a small child using common sense could not understand why hundreds of police officers should be seconded to staff the departments you have introduced now into the operation of the Greek Police, because they should be a hundred seconded from Thessaloniki to come a hundred distracted by other corners of the country and both geographical areas weakened at the same time. That's really beyond me. I now have the confidence that public opinion may also have that you can baptize the white one black one. I do not give it to you personally because you have the precious quality of being out-of-parliamentary. But there's a limit somewhere.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u131	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the substantial upgrading of quality policing throughout the territory is the subject of day-to-day efforts by the political and physical leadership of the Ministry of Civil Protection. We remain faithful to our pursuit. Very briefly, I mention it. We are making people's expectation to live and prosper in an environment of security which is an essential condition for the progress of every modern society. The issue that arises through the study of the current question is a consequence of the lack of adequate human resources that characterises all the services of the Greek Police. This is an issue which concerns the leadership of the Ministry of Civil Protection and the physical leadership of the Greek Police. The reasons that have led to a reduced staffing of the police have emerged and been analysed in detail in this Chamber. As a result, for the economy of the shorter time that I have at my disposal, I will not repeat them. However, I am going to stand by one element which is good to recall in our memory when we manage issues of the human resources of the Greek police in the sphere of public dialogue. This is the fact that our country's police officer is responsible for carrying out a number of tasks, for example the performance of the various judicial documents and, in fact, for dealing with projects outside the purely - I would say - his police duties, which is not the case in other European countries where police personnel are engaged solely in the tasks his State has entrusted to the safety of citizens. This parameter deserves to remain at the forefront whenever we refer to the human power of services of the body, the responsibilities and the tasks which the EVS is called upon to perform since this parameter also affects the issue to which you referred earlier on about the secondments. Having made these general points. I would like to see together the specific staffing data relating to the Directorate-General for Police of Thessaloniki. First of all, from 2019 until today, more than two hundred empty organic positions have been put in place in the framework of the annual regular and extraordinary transfers. It is of particular interest that the fullness rate of the Directorate-General for Police of Thessaloniki and the existing services is considered from 2018 until today. I am tabling relevant tables in the Minutes of this House, which illustrate a quite different reality from that described through the contents of the timely question under discussion. [[At this point the Deputy Minister for Citizen Protection, Mr Eleftherios Economou, presents for the minutes the above tables, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] I would therefore like to point out that despite the deficiencies of staff in all the services of the Greek Police, the Directorate-General for Police of Thessaloniki, as well as the existing services, they maintain and, where appropriate, increase the power of staff to them. This also concerns the more specific services, which you refer to in the current question, the Order Measure Subdirection and the Order Restoration Subdirection, which, as it can be seen, do not show any weakening image, but have been strengthened from 2019 until today. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] To conclude my initial position, I would also like to highlight a number of points. The Settlement Management Team, as well as the Direct Advisers Group, are not autonomous services of the Greek Police, but operational teams set up under Article 56 of Presidential Decree 178/2014 to specifically support existing services in the effective fulfilment of their mission and enhance the sense of security for citizens. In particular, for the LAG teams, we are at this time in the Presidential Decree study phase, which will provide for their administrative place in the Police Operations Directorates of Attica and Thessaloniki for their better and orderly operation and better coordination. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, too. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u133	Minister, I really don't blame you for personal deceit or political responsibility. But if I understood correctly, did you tell me that for what I described you, it is the duty of the police to deliver documents or documents, which remain two years after your administration the main problem leading to the sub-commissioning or the decommissioning of police services? Is that what you're telling me? And you're telling me that this description of young people, maybe thousands, recruiting the police? Excuse me very much, Mr. Economou, I understand from the way you answer, that obviously the person who has contributed to writing does not know where Thessaloniki is and does not know how the Directorate-General for Police of Thessaloniki works. I'm sorry to tell you, but when you tell me and describe an ideal dreamy dream, as we've been living for the last two years, explain to me why the white Tower department, which had to have three hundred twenty police officers on the basis of an organisational chart, has two hundred forty, of which forty are seconded by other cities? Where is the full coverage of the organic positions, which you described a few minutes ago? Let me ask you something else. The Thessaloniki Police Officers' Association, which by means of WASH with courage and boldness describes in its communication of 3 June 2021 some of the things that completely disproves you even in relation to this table you are obviously putting forward with the same logic - and let me say it - with the political courage - not you personally, the Minister of Public Order - to tolerate the provocative appeal in the case of Cyprus? It's another matter, but you can see the same conception, the same philosophy. You don't care about the truth, you don't care about ethics, morality or fairness, you do have the impression. In the case of Thessaloniki, to come back, I am very sorry if you or anyone listening to us finds sense in the fact that a hundred police officers have been seconded, Mr. Economou. I tell you, with the request, that the problem be healed and not politically opposed. A hundred police have been seconded from Thessaloniki to other addresses and to cover the gaps, he has received sixty seconded from other prefectures. Do you think that makes sense again? The economic costs are doubled, public finances are charged with an absurdity, which I believe a child, a primary student, could solve. Let me give you examples, so that you don't think everything is in communication or impression. Eighteen policemen from the Thessaloniki Police Department strengthened Zakynthos, twenty in Crete and thirteen in the OPE of Athens, when the OPEI of Thessaloniki had to be strengthened with twenty-four police officers from other cities. I believe that the irrational dimension of what I am describing is perfectly understandable. And one last thing. Do not so much underestimate the voice of police trade unions and especially those who never have Rigillis as their home, but have every home of every Greek citizen. The Association of Thessaloniki Police Officers with great braveness, as part of its cooperation with POSY, strikes you at the bell of responsibility. Make sure you hear it, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, Mr. Colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u135	The issue you raised, the extracts from the staff of the Greek Police, is indeed a serious issue which has troubled the Greek Police and its services, I would say, several years ago. It is, however, a very complex issue, which has to do with a number of problems, which often arises exceptionally and is called upon by the Greek police to deal with them, since, as I said before, there is a multitude of tasks assigned to the Greek Police and which are many times out of its purely police duties. What you have not mentioned and it is perfectly accurate, about the secondments made by Thessaloniki to Zakynthos and some other regions, I only have to say to you, because I cannot at this time be more detailed in a public statement of the speech, that there are certain operational reasons in Zakynthos, which went forces from Thessaloniki and, in particular, with forces responsible for carrying out security tasks in the area, since a large part of the officials in Zakynthos and, in particular, the security services for reasons of particular serious and service was considered to be seconded by the Zakynthos Security Service to which they were serving.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u136	In other cities?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u137	As far as the reports of the Thessaloniki trade unions are concerned, I have full knowledge. Last week, I had a meeting with them. There has been a broad exchange of views on these issues. But I would like to tell you in any case that the Directorate-General for Police of Thessaloniki is in a better position than several regional agencies, and much more than the Directorate-General for Police at Attica. I say, in terms of staffing and restrain the number I told you before, that in the last two years it has been strengthened with more than two hundred policemen and the results of these actions and more specific plans to combat crime in Thessaloniki seem to be experienced by the citizens, because I can tell you very briefly and very briefly that there has been a significant reduction in the homicides of the order of 75%, in thefts - burglaries, we have a 21.12% reduction in thefts of wheelchairs of 15.64% and in the robbery of 15.19%. Of course, our efforts to improve the staffing of the Directorate-General for Police of Thessaloniki and any changes that need to be made to better manage the staff there, in the context of the plans currently being made, I would like to assure you that we are concerned with and that there will soon be some results in this area as well. More generally, however, the management of the human resources of the Greek Police is part of the sphere of the most demanding issues for every political and physical leadership of the Ministry of Civil Protection, especially during the current period, when we have been in the first years after a long period of budgetary closeness. Because you should always bear in mind that in the Memorandum years, in terms of Greek Police staff, there has been, I would say, an excessively strict austerity with the result that it is evident from the point of view of staffing and needs, which arise in connection with the problems faced by the Greek Police to cover and the tasks surrounding the issues of dealing with illegal immigration and a number of other issues that also arise in this area. Our interest in human resources and support is sincere and we are working on a daily basis while remaining at the disposal of all those who have realistic proposals in the direction of upgrading the police services provided to the citizen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u138	Thank you very much, Minister. We move to the fourth under No 897/28-6-2021 topical question of the second question of the SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance Mr.Theophistis (Petis) Perkas to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Green transition to the Greek Recovery and Resistance Plan". The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Skulakakis. My colleague, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, on the basis of the Recovery and Resilience Plan recently presented by the Government to the House, the resources of the first pillar for the green transition were presented as 38%, i.e. overcoming the 37% requirement for the approval of the programme by the European Commission. However, this percentage is not confirmed by the plan because the documentation provided for in Regulation No 2021/241 is missing. The resources for the green transition are EUR 6 billion 26 million and with leverage about 10 billion, i.e. 18% of the total budget. This inaccuracy is also reinforced by the gap between the 12 billion and 728 million loans, which by leverage will reach 31 billion 819 million, for which there is no reference for the pillars - the actions being allocated and, of course, for the criteria on which they will be given. Our view is that the green transition in addition to pillar 1 should be horizontally integrated into leading to the transformation of all sectors of the economy in order finally to achieve climate neutrality in 2050. The plan should therefore be presented, according to the European Commission, in detail, which axes and partial interventions contribute to the achievement of environmental climate targets, but at the same time do not cause significant damage. We saw only 242 million in transition for the restoration of only sixty thousand hectares in Western Macedonia. The Megalopolis has been forgotten, but these too are very few. Secondly, some of the actions to reform active employment policies, part of them. It doesn't explain where and how. In action to create electricity storage systems, there are 450 million, but no proposals or forecasts on how to store this. And, of course, it is impressively missing to mention any reference to energy communities. So, on the basis of the above, we are asking you whether the explanation and detailed presentation will be included in the Greek recovery plan for resilience and resilience, firstly, by ensuring the principle of no significant harm and, secondly, how all the measures will contribute to achieving the objectives in order to establish that the project actually meets the 37% target. In addition, when this documentation will be made public, on which pillars of action, on which criteria will be allocated to these twelve billion provided for as loans. Also, how many of the recovery and durability plan will be allocated to the transition regions of Kozani, Florina, Megalopolis, Crete, North and South Aegean islands - per pillar, by axis and by action. What actions are ultimately linked to liberation? What is the design for energy storage and energy communities in the region of Western Macedonia and Megalopolis? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u140	Thank you too, my colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u141	I thank the honourable Member for the question. It's an opportunity to clarify a few things. The first thing we need to clarify is that the regulation does not work on the basis of leverage, which is not a legal concept, it works on the basis of either loans or subsidies. That is, a minimum of 37% for which we have committed ourselves to the European Commission, is about subsidies, where we achieve 37.5% after evaluation by the committee. In other words, after a number of discussions and negotiations, and after considering all the reports on climate evaluation, the green assessment of its projects and actions, we have also submitted reports on the 'do no-significant harm', there has been no significant damage, firstly, that there is no problem in terms of significant environmental damage and, secondly, that we are above the rate and that we are at 37.5% in terms of subsidies. The loans are not a finding, but a commitment that we are obliged on the basis of the climate assessment of the loans to exceed 37%, which we will do and ensure in the following way. In the contracts that we are going to make, we will have exceeded this figure as an obligation for the bodies that will contribute with us. In other words, EIB, EBRD, systemic banks and other entities, when we agree with them to give these loans, will be obliged to every department that receives 37% in contract. This is in response to the way the objective is achieved and, of course, all this elementary and documentation has been given to the committee and will then be given by the committee to the public once the draft has been approved. I think it has already been given to the European Parliament, but I have not seen it. With regard to pillars and axes of action, climate evaluation and green tugging are not just about the green pillar, it is by work, hence it runs the whole package. The same will happen in the case of loans. Now, what resources of the project will be allocated to the transition regions, as you know, the transition regions have their own programme, plus an additional programme from the NRP that exists through NextGeneration EU, which has been given. We in particular have EUR 242 million for contact rehabilitation operations. As far as the islands are concerned, we have EUR 145 million - EUR 445 million is the project - on collecting connections. We also have very important resources in storage, EUR 450 million for multiple technologies, as a minimum, for pumping and batteries, but the details will be given in terms of the Ministry of Energy. It's not my job to talk about this project in detail. What we can say is that the total capacity pursued is 1,380 MW. In relation to the individual regions, the projects provided for in the fund have not yet been recorded by region, because some are open invitations and others will specialise in the process, for example, in the social sector, because they cover almost all hospitals or health centres or many others are private investments which will also be specialised by region. Therefore, we will have an assessment of the regional impact sometime in the next few months, but to have an integrated picture we will need to see and what the response of private investments will be, because we do not forget that the major part of the recovery plan concerns private investments that cannot actually be specificised before the investment interest appears. We are presenting the notices and invitations of interest, but we must also have the appearance of interest. That's what I had to tell you in relation to your timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u142	Thank you, Minister. Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u143	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I am obviously not very satisfied with the answer. First, let's start at the end. As far as private individuals are concerned, we are therefore blaming you, namely that you are going to do a violent, fast, always waiting for a private person who plans and proposes without the presence of the central planning that a state has to do. This is a serious criticism and the results in western Macedonia are now visible. In any case, the project presented was carried out without consultation. We've only seen one summary. I do not know if the European Parliament has seen anything more. We only have one summary. It is neither strategic nor developmental. It is a report - a quote of proposals pending and some private proposals, a list of projects with a mild strategic and developmental character and without consultation. What we should have expected of this plan and, especially in relation to the green transition, is three important points. Firstly, to deal with energy poverty. Here we see no funds for energy poverty. Secondly, the social dimension and the need for pluralism in energy production, i.e. without social exclusion, to involve local society in production. We have exactly the opposite as a reality today. Thirdly, the development dimension, namely the strengthening of domestic production chains of technology and employment, which should also be specified and documented and said that we are giving money for such actions, not subsidising each investor who comes with a project, which may not even be within this framework. I will make a little mention, Minister, since I have time to do what Portugal is doing in the respective plan for the Recovery Fund. Apart from linking it to all the current projects in the country and making use of it in combination and complementing the other funding, it has made a very serious consultation where some two thousand comments have been taken into account. Like I said, we've only seen the summary. It is interesting that Portugal's lending is only 16.2%, while we reach 41.2%. We're very confident that we have very good lenders. The main axis in all that text, in Portugal's plan, is social cohesion and the social state. 67% of the funds go through poverty across all three axes, because it represents the major threat of exclusion. Poverty of workers, energy poverty, digital poverty. All of this to conclude: there cannot be a plan that has no lines of action, specific things, a strategy for where we are going. The Green transition, of course, but to have left it in the designs of counsellors with suggestion, I would say, and business groups and interests, instead of working with local communities and the state having an important role in how it will be done, what will happen in these regions, which are deserted, unemployment has been launched and there is no planning for local society, because there is no other way. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will finish, Madam President. I don't have to raise the questions. Either way, I'll get the same answers. I would also like to reply to that for other resources. Listen a little. The Government's account of increased resources due to imperialisation is not valid. Our country is ninth in terms of the amount of funding for the Fair Transfer Fund, when Bulgaria and Romania that are not even committed to liberation receive 1,2 billion and 2 billion respectively from the Fair Transfer Fund, without the EMS and the European Social Fund. In addition, 6% of the funds from the auctioning of carbon dioxide emissions for the transition of lignite areas have been reduced by Mr Hatzidakis to 1%. It is urgently calling for the region - and it is true that it is very fair - to return to at least 6%. And of course the 60 million guaranteed by the SYRIZA government remain in drawers. So this is uncertain and does not give any hope to the lignite regions, and all this is not being done, Minister. The state plans strategically, developmentally and implements and then, of course, the investors come along with the local communities and build on them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u144	Thank you, my colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u145	Ladies and gentlemen, if the Greek people wanted to design the economy, I think they would choose the Communist Party, be SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u146	We're talking about planning, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u147	He hasn't chosen a central design of the economy, no matter how bothering you. Indeed, Portugal has a very good plan. I discussed it with my Portuguese counterpart. But in relation to Portugal, there is a very big difference, which escapes you. He was escaping you when you were in power. Portugal has no investment gap. For ten years Greece has had a huge investment gap, above all in private investment, which results in the dismantling of every day of the country's production capacity. The possibility of producing a country is a function of three things. It is the natural capital that we have and the technology that it contains, it is the human capital that we have and the skills that this includes and it is the ability of entrepreneurship to "marry" all of this in a creative way. In the previous period, we had massive migrations of our human capital, particularly those that had skills to be globally competitive, and on average half of the investments were in relation to Europe. We were in the worst possible position and we still have this phenomenon, and in 2019, when we received it, it means that the new technology that comes in a time of rapid technological increase does not enter the Greek economy, because the tool with which the investments must enter the economy is the one. Entrepreneurship suffered from too much taxation and all the rest that we know about. Therefore, other needs are Portugal, others have Greece at this stage, which is why Portugal does not take the loans at all or take them a little. I think it takes 2 or 2.5 billion of the loans we are asking for as a whole. There are 100 million specifically for energy poverty in the programme. I'm saying that for your own information. With regard to planning and consultation, we also did a regular consultation procedure and discussed here in Parliament, nine and a half hours and we will discuss the plan itself when it comes to Parliament to be voted on. However, the reality of the Recovery Fund is that it has no time luxury to include many new designs. It's not a fund that gives us time luxury. Everything, from scratch to completion, must be finished by 31-8-2026. This made a different approach in relation to its training which had a strong presence in all the ministries. We had discussed with local communities too, but the recovery fund plan is not regional. It's a national plan. The regional plan of the country is the ESRB and the municipality plan is the ‘ITIS ANONISS’. This is the structure of our planning. Therefore, while it has a strong regional dimension, the project is mainly characterised by the national priorities it needs to implement and implement. Finally, I cannot tell you many things because it concerns another ministry. I have a specific package. You should ask the Ministry about defoliation. I just need to tell you something about liberation. Today the pollutants are at $55 a ton. If Kyriakos Mitsotakis did not take the decision to go to a rapid defoliation and do not move at a huge speed in this direction, we would weep for years, "on the rivers of Babylon" for the consequences of non-degreeisation, because lignite today is an uncompetitive fuel.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u148	We agree. We want debilitation, too, but with a plan.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u149	That is what I have to say and I am happy to answer again and again to questions about the Recovery Fund. I hope we will have a lot of time and interesting discussions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u150	Thank you very much, Minister. And now we move to the third with number 896/25-6-2021 a topical question by MP B2' Western Athens of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arsenis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Political Mount: hour zero to defend its public and forest character". The Secretary of State for the Environment and Energy Mr George Amyras will answer. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor. At this point, I would like to ask all my fellow Members to be consistent with time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u151	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Secretary, this is the third time I've brought this to Parliament. One of the main reasons why I bring this is precisely because there were specific commitments from both Mr Hatzidakis and Mr Economou, your predecessor in practice at the Ministry, concerning what we are going to do about this huge issue, for which we had a claim that began with a few hundred acres and now came to claim the entire Poikilo. The solutions here are clear. The Regulatory Plan of Athens stipulates that Polikilos and Aegaleo along with the Lake of the Reetes, Lake Koumoundouros, will become regional natural parks. And that is a protection regime that clears the matter. However, although this decision has been taken since 2004 which is the study, nothing has come forward so far. It is obviously not just your responsibility that nothing has gone wrong. The New Democracy Party was government for the longest time, but not all. But here we have an explicit commitment from Mr. Economou that he agrees with the creation of the regional park and says: "We have already found resources and will be an update of this 2004 study and will proceed along with the specific environmental study for the NATURA regions in this area which is a subset of the whole region". And Mr. Hadjidakis said he would find a solution to the issue and invited me to go together and see the Mount Poikilo and that they absolutely need to be protected and found a solution, as he says that the inhabitants of the Polikilos Mount and Aegean are entitled to have better conditions of life. So we want you to expressly tell us whether you will in principle abolish the decree of the junta that gave conditions of construction to the area. The conditions for construction have never been given, no heights have ever been given. 'Ice' on the side of the municipalities. So we want you to tell us whether the decree will be abolished and whether you will proceed to the declaration made by the previous political leadership of your Government as a regional natural park. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u152	I too, Mr. Colleague, and that you were consistent in your time. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u153	Thank you very much, Madam President. My dear colleague, I imagine that from your frequent timely questions and answers, you are aware of the importance we attach to the Ministry of the Environment in the design and creation of new free green areas, and much more when we talk about the Poikilo Mount. So I'll tell you about the Mount Poliquilo, along with its twin term, Aigleo. For those who don't know, the Mount Picquilo is a low mountain. Its top is four hundred and fifty-two meters. It is a lengthy 11 km that constitutes the natural limit between the Triasios Field and the Lecanopedia. With regard to the most important role that he played until the 1970s, about 80s, Poikilo Mount was the regulator of the small climate of the Lefkanopedio. In the '60s and '70s there was a massacre, I'd say, on this mountain. Petroupoli, Peristeri, Cameroon, Aigaleo, were extended to its suburbs, it was done with great deforestation and, of course, we had the very many dames, the quarries. Nevertheless, the Polikilus Mount still has reserves of natural power. So we in the Ministry of the Environment, the Mitsotakis Government, of course, have decided to characterise it, design it as a regional natural park, to enhance its biodiversity. We will also try in time and with all the efforts we will make to get the citizens of the Lefkanope to the west, so that with paths, with a network of paths that we are preparing, with an ornithological towers and plantations to reintroduce it to its original role, which, I repeat, was one of the regulators, along with Hymittos on the other hand, the microclimate of the Lefkanope. We have of course committed ourselves and will do so. We'll create the regional park you're asking us for. I also want to tell you some information that may be of interest to you. So, in your question, you are asking me whether we are going to proceed with a legislative arrangement calling the unstructured areas as forests - I do not know why you have now referred it to the oral question - and whether we are going to abolish the 1970 Uganda Decree. I'll go to the woods first, because there's been a lot of talk. First of all, I suggest that you come in and see the suspension of the forest maps. There you will see that the Polikilos Mount is of course characterized as a forest. The only points that are not forest are where the urban plans exist. So the question of whether we can maintain its forest character is answered by itself if you take a look at the posted forest maps. We cannot do with a decision, even if we do not want it, to erase the forest character of the Mount Poikilos in order to do something different, because it has unstructured areas. Unstructured areas on their own do not constitute the basic criterion to qualify as forest or forest land. The Constitution is what it tells us. So the Constitution tells us first of all that it is forbidden to change the destination of forests and forest land, unless there are reasons for public interest in rural exploitation or other use. But there is also the interpretative statement of the Constitution that says that forest or forest ecosystem means the organic assortment of wild plants with woody torso on the necessary soil surface, which together with the coexistent flora and fauna there are through mutual interdependence a particular natural environment. Therefore, it is not possible for all unstructured areas to be classified as forests on the sole condition that they are unstructured. We, therefore, have hard forestry legislation in Greece - we are protecting the forest character of the mountain. In addition, I would like to give you a piece of information. The Department of Urban Planning, led by my colleague, Deputy Minister, Nikos Tagaras, has promoted to the attention of the Central Council of Urban Issues and Disputes a proposal to regulate the incomplete area of the town of Agia Trinity and Pekka Verde. Unfortunately, the meeting of the KISCOPE was not held due to the many requests for postponement by many interested parties, which were accepted by the Council and so is expected in the next period. Madam President, that is what I wanted to say and the rest in my second language.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u154	Thank you, too, Minister. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u155	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, I should first like to welcome your commitment to becoming a regional natural park, as foreseen by the regulatory system. I would like you to make a commitment on the timetable. In other words, we would like you to make a commitment to the timetable, precisely when the studies will be completed, when the studies will be carried out, when they will be completed, when we will proceed to the declaration. When does the design of your Ministry provide for the official status of the Poikilon Mountain Area - Mount Aigleo and Lake Reite? It is also very interesting that the debate has begun. What is the suggestion for the debate, if you can describe us, to know where the debate is going at the moment? There are some decisions. I have given you the timeline. It is the decision of the Deputy Prosecutor of 1990, the 2012 decision by the General Administration of Planning of the Ministry of Finance and by the Public Property Directorate of the Ministry of Finance in 2012, the document of the Department of Economics OTA to the Municipality of Petroupolis in 2011, the document of the Department of Forest Protection of the Ministry of Forestry to the Ministry of Finance in 2009, etc. All these documents document and make it clear that this area is both forest and public. So we have, on the one hand, forest areas and, on the other, we have the ownership of what, unfortunately, has not yet been claimed by the Greek State in the context of the register. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I am not asking you to answer for that. I shall ask the Minister for Finance a specific question on this. But you should know that, take it into account, because unfortunately it concerns our issues. But what I would like you to answer is this: we have a 1970 decree, which puts rice on the ground, even though the Hungarian Minister for Agriculture obviously disagreed with some particular reasons which had nothing to do with the public interest. This frustration went on and has something to do with the trespasses. This has never been implemented, because the municipalities did not provide build-up factors. These areas are incomprehensible. But, because there is this potential possibility, there are constant instances of violations of small and large. So I would like you to commit yourself to abolishing. You said that the KISYTHOVA raises the question that the suggestion will be to abolish the decree of this 1970. This is what the municipalities, those regions, are calling for, that is to say, to endure the project. They've asked for it in writing. So this lawful demand of the municipalities and residents must go ahead and stop the constant incidents of offenders for no reason. The municipalities will never give any coefficients. But it must end this drama. There's got to be some kind of perfection in this thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u156	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u157	Thank you, Madam President. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Socrates Famelos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] My dear colleague, first of all, let us say that this existing institutional framework is an obsolete and anachronistic protection framework and of course it needs to be updated. Of course we will modernise it, change it, abolish it where it does not serve the interests of the mountain and move on to the next step. There are too many requests and we in the Ministry of the Environment have made teleconferences with environmental organizations, professional groups, with municipalities too many times. We have gathered everyone's views and proceed to the distillery of all these discussions that are no other than how we will ensure the natural role and great importance to biodiversity of the Mount Polikilos, along with Mount Agaleo. We need to see them connected somewhere. They're together, they're twin mountains. We therefore promote - and very soon - a new modern status for the protection of the Poikilo Mount. So, as far as the timetable you ask me is concerned, I say that we will soon move towards changing this outdated, as I said, protection regime. But, of course, money is also needed for what is to be provided for in the protection plan. So, now, in March that passed us, there was a request for funding regional and urban projects, entitled 'Aegean Mountain Protection Study - Polikilou to the Green Fund', which incorporated the project into the financial programme 'Environmental Balance Actions'. So we have guaranteed funding. We are convinced that the institutional protection framework needs to be changed. We are in contact with the NGOs, the environmental organizations and the municipalities located on the borderline and the Polikilos Mount and, of course, under the provisions of the new regulatory "Athens-Attica", the "natural elements complex", as it is called, i.e. Aegaleo, Pokilo, but also the Lake Koumoundouros, are characterised as a regional park and will thus be formed in a single park of recreation, hiking, bicycle, ornithatorial, with two large super-local recreational poles in the western and north-west gate of Athens. What are these objectives? If I could say it with a word, it would be first to protect the vegetation of the mountain with pine pine. But it also has eight hundred different types of plants, Poikilo Mount and, in fact, this mountain is the champion, no matter how much our eye does not catch, in the different types of orchid in Greece. It has forty different types of orchid. Also, there are too many caves. I imagine you'll have walked. Madam President, many times we've been hiking in Poikilo Mount. It has more than forty - five caves, more importantly - if I remember his name - the Zastani cave. So I tell you in the characteristic way what our aim is and if you want me to tell you some more technical issues, first of all, there is no case - and we say so - to allow for a change in the use of forests and forests. In addition, we will restore the parts of the mountains that have been altered and degraded. Also, with the help of the Agency for the Natural Environment and Climate Change of the Ministry, we will clearly do on the basis of the specific environmental study, the actions and interventions needed to protect and strengthen biodiversity, because for us the Polimpos Mount, as well as the Mount Aegleo, are, as I said, the most important regulators of the Lecanopdi microwave. Unfortunately, what is happening now, Madam President? While until the 1960s-1970s, on the basis of the information we have and the scientists, it did have a beneficial effect on the climate, following the deforestation of the mountain, the dams, the opening of roads and all these bad and bad things that we have encountered - and unfortunately we met in Greece over the past decades - by a climate regulator, Poikilo Mount tends on the basis of scientific research to become a climate regulator, because that is where the phenomenon of temperature reversal is favoured. So all this is in our minds. We are working with scientists, environmental NGOs and municipalities so that this mountain will also become a stage of protecting and strengthening its biodiversity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u158	Thank you, too, Minister. Next is the seventh under number 6305-26-4-2021 question of the circle of petitions - questions by SYRIZA's MP - Progressive Alliance Mr. Socrates Famelou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The anti-nuclear period begins with strong forests and government indifference". The question by my colleague will be answered again by the Secretary of State for the Environment and Energy, Mr George Amyras. Here, Mr Colleague, you have two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u159	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, we are here today to discuss a question submitted on 26 April by fifty-fifth Members of the SYRIZA and my colleagues, who are here today, have signed this question. This question comes as a timely one because it has not been answered in the written manner due, so that we can now discuss a big issue in a short time. But I think that this devaluation of the process, by finally coming up with two months' delay - because the answer came on Friday - leads us to a conclusion of devaluation and the role of the Ministry of the Environment. And that is what I must say to you that it is also confirmed by the answer you sent us in writing and in part - because you do not answer what we are asking you - because it turns out that, after our question, you started to incorporate acts in May or to proclaim actions for time. But we ask you what you have done so far and where the fire protection and prevention regime are. It seems, then, that after phenomena which are sadly tragic, such as the fire in Gerania, Schino, Aleppo, Megara, you are coming back with various communication procedures to cover your mistakes in a large way, saying that your character will not change. Yes, but the point was not to make a fire, which was in tens of thousands of acres and a protected area. It is clear to us, Mr. Amyras, that the Mitsotakis Government does not have the environment as its priority. If it had it, it would not have abolished the management bodies of protected areas and their administrations. And since the Parliaments of Western Macedonia are here know how important it is that you abolish the body of the lakes and protected areas of Western Macedonia, even the body, which is in the lake of Kastoria, where we finally put administration, because the former government held him "frozen". In any case, however, that is not all. You have come with the famous article 218, you have given Mr. Georgiadis the partition and licensing of activities in NATURA 2000 areas, proving that you do not care about the natural environment, but you are interested in the services of some interests. But in the case of forests, Madam President, there was a draft national forestry strategy supported by the New Democracy in 2018. It has not been implemented for two years. It is characteristic that in the answer you sent us that now, two years later, you are starting to activate the financial instruments that we created in 2019. But the main thing we ask is this: when will forestry services be served with permanent staff? Unfortunately, most workers are now older. Slowly there is an ageing population of service workers. We need new executives. You're not responding to that. Because the recruitment of permanent staff to the forestry services was approved. We are also asking you what is going to happen with the public service programme where five thousand workers have been employed throughout Greece and know-how and equipment have been created and that is why you are not answering us. What are you telling us, that some seasonians will come while we ask you when to serve the forest services? We don't ask you about seasonals, Mr. Amyras. We are telling you in particular: when will you implement the forest fire prevention policy, when will you strengthen the Ministry of the Environment, forest services and when will we have real protection and prevention in forests? That's what we're asking. Please, can we come to this, and not other words, be loved? Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u160	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u161	Thank you, Madam President. My colleague, Mr Famel, when we talk about fires good, it is especially you of SYRIZA to be very tempered in your words! I won't talk any more.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u162	That's better.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u163	Don't challenge me now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u164	Madam Colleague, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u165	Are you proud of the management of the fire in Matty? Shame on you! Let's go down.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u166	Keep it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u167	Madam President...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u168	(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u169	Mrs. Comrade, listen to me for a second. Please. My colleague asked the question. Nobody bothered him. The Minister's answer. Please do not be provocative, because it is not a good thing to exchange these kinds of debates in Parliament. You understand that, I imagine. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u170	Thank you, Madam President. Before I reply to you very specifically on the matter of the staff of the forest services, which is missing, I will respond to two - three fireworks that you have thrown, for example, on Article 218, which has become 219 in the numbering, which this article says. It says that within the NATURA areas - and we all know that the NATURA regions have a vital role to play - in these areas, for reasons of public benefit and interest, but following two major steps: firstly, the expeditor has completed a special environmental study and, secondly, he has taken it to the Council of State for preventive control. If the S.C.E. He says no he's not going to do anything. Unless you don't want the S.T.A., if you don't want us to hear it. Because I remember a colleague of yours, a former Member of Parliament, recently said "sufficient with legality and enough with the S.H.E.". That's what you want, not to follow the S.T.E.Huh? No, we are institutional, and we believe that the decisions of the Council of State are worthy, and we should always follow them. Let's go down. You're talking about permanent staff. The truth is that, in both the days of the SYRIZA government and not half the recruitment of permanent staff to forest services was not done. Not half an intake. The harsh truth is, therefore, that we are all concerned with, and we may all have responsibilities for this, that the last intake of permanent staff in the forestry services was seventeen years ago. Yes, we are aware of the problem, and that is why, firstly, we are organizing, in cooperation with the Ministry of the Interior, the recruitment of three hundred permanent officials, experts and scientists, who will be in the Directorate-General, the central agency and the two hundred eighty of the other agencies of the decentralised administrations. At the same time, however, "we're running" staff: three hundred and fifty geotechnical forestists, two hundred foresters and a hundred and fifty managers through the OAED programme and funding from the Social Cohesion Fund. I would also like to inform you that the first recording of the skills by regional unit and agency has already been completed, it has been sent to the Ministry of Labour and according to the reply of the relevant department of the Ministry of Labour, which is due immediately to the announcement of these seven hundred posts. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u171	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u172	Madam President, because there was a vulgar reference made by the Secretary-General to matters of the past, I must make it clear that he has been disproved, firstly, by Mr Mitsotakis at the UN summit, which referred to an extreme climatic phenomenon, which they did not recognize at that time for Matti. Secondly, the fact that the then chief of police has made him a secretary-general at the Ministry. Thirdly, the fact that there are already legal developments - which I would ask him not to interfere with because we must not intervene - which clarify the responsibilities of the government and the then regional authority in proving the lies and vulnerabilities of the New Democracy, as the Right always knows how to policy. But the harsh truth is about the forestry services, because this is why the House called us today, Mr Amyras, and you will not be scratching any more in the bag of soap. The harsh truth, then, is that on SYRIZA, within the memorandum, five thousand workers were in the forests and Mr Mitsotakis came and said in 2019 that we had the fewest fires because there was a forest protection programme. And these people are looking at you and asking you: ‘ Will there be continuity of the program? Will our experience be exploited? Will the machinery be used?' Because all this was done in SYRIZA and in the Memorandum. Because you, as a New Democracy, have unfortunately left our country with a memorial and recruitment limitations, and now you are making us smart and tell us why we are not hiring. So we even managed to hire, to be the world and to work in the forests, along with training and to plan recruitments that your predecessor, Mr. Hatzidakis, in July 2019, "frozen", Mr. Amyras. And you come two years later, running after and behind the german fires or elsewhere, tell us that you are now planning permanent recruitments. Welcome to reality! But we had planned all this in the Memorandum. So do not do the smart thing, because there is experience and knowledge in the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, while you are inadequate. And what we ask you as a government and as a political group is specific: have you been serious about discussing with the officials and forest service officials and scientists what exactly a deterioration is now taking place in the Ministry of the Environment? Why do you come and tell us in an incredible document that the allocation of one million four hundred thousand from the appropriations - is imminent? In July? - 20 thousand euros are to be allocated for integrated protection and prevention in areas of land mixing - housing. Twenty thousand euros, when it was in the fire prevention programme in 2019, Mr. Amyuras? And now you're joining twenty thousand euros? It is the document that came to the parliamentary scrutiny and I shall submit it in the Minutes. As you also say after our question on 13 May that you finally incorporated fire protection funding? On May 13, following the start of the anti-missile period, when it had to be done last year? And have we asked you a question last year and this year on the same subject? But you have not answered anything about the issue that we have asked you, about how we are going to strengthen programmes for forest protection and prevention and how they will all be based on the rules of the environment. Because, Madam President, I think it is embarrassing for a State Secretary for the Environment to go to Sheikh Su - where he has replied that there are no funding - for the State Secretary for Civil Protection to be present, who declares that he is unresponsible for the cameras in front of the State Secretary for Civil Protection and that the State Secretary for Civil Protection has said that although he is unreserved, I will find one and a half million to protect Sheik Soo, while the State Secretary for the Environment has neither with him nor with the forestry services, nor has he carried out his responsibility. So we ask: In this final mess, which you have led Greece, can you please very much protect the environment policy and restore the rightness imposed by the climate crisis period, to have the environment as a priority in our policies? Because as you go, you will close the door and leave the Ministry of the Environment and leave nothing in the country's environmental policy. These issues are realities. And to close the question, Madam President, that is not what SYRIZA says. We will submit the WWF document on unacceptable interference in the forest protected Koukounaria on the ropes, which says that anti-nuclear protection cannot be destroyed by rarely destroying protected forests. This is the Greece of Mr. Mitsotakis. To show Mr Chardalias that he is finally better than Mr Amyras, he takes responsibility for destroying the Koukounaria forest and environmental organizations are coming, Madam President, to tell us that you have no prevention plan, no policy, no environmental support, Mr Amyras. If you want to talk about facts, here's the papers. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u173	Thank you, Mr. Colleague. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u174	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Fémélégénène (PPE). — (ES) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, Mr Fémélez, on his excellent report. She caught ropes, caught Sheich Sue, somewhere to get caught. So I'll tell you what's vulgar to answer. They are your constant lies, that is, your psalmology has arrived in heaven. One, I'll answer them. He said we've done away with the management agencies. But so uninformed or so liar are you finally? No dismantling took place. Entities are replaced by management units. The Agency for the Natural Environment and Climate Change is the one taking over the NATURA areas with central planning and local management. But of course, you got the pain for some bodies that you had only put on board management boards without any worker! Where's prevention? Where is the protection of NATURA over your days? Are you mocking us in our eyes, in our face? To tell you about the Aegean, to tell you about Crete, to tell you about the Peloponnese for how many bodies you had only put boards. That's what you're interested in! What do we do now? We have passed all management bodies from control and with sworn auditors and with accountants and lawyers. And soon after management, of course, they will take their course, that is to say they will be replaced by the management units. Let's go tell you the other thing now. You didn't all have time! You had everything well burned and you didn't make it. For the Sheikh Sue you are telling me and for the rope I say: the Ministry of the Environment is in full cooperation with the Civil Protection. So the two Ministries of Civil Protection and the Environment have clearly set down a roadmap to prevent, clean up forests and remove this fuel that has been accumulated for years. So don't tell us things that you guys don't believe in. So let me now tell you about the money and prevention. We have seen your prevention too. All Europe has taken it and taught it in universities! Listen to the funding. He caught a sum to make it a flag. What you said about the 20,000 is one of the many. Last year in Shahik Su, decentralized administration was financed by us enough with hundreds of thousands of euros to make their cleansing. And that's not all. So listen. First of all, the Green Fund was given EUR 1,700,000 for fire protection and road construction projects. Also from the same fund, by the same body, was given 1,000 000 to improve the gravity of forest roads in the peninsula of Athos. The public investment programme provided 2.360,000 for opening, improving, maintenance of forest roads, upgrading forest protection and protection in forest and housing mixing areas. From the regular budget, 5.770,000 were allocated for the operation of the decentralised forest services to have money to make nights in the countryside. Also the large programme that we have just completed. For the first time in our country and for the first year we run EUR 79,500,000, almost EUR eighty million, for forest prevention. Moreover, measure 8, for investments in forest development and for improving forest sustainability, namely sub-measures 8.3 and 8.4, to prevent forest damage due to forest fires, natural disasters and disasters and sub-measure 8.4 to restore forest damage due to forest fires, natural disasters. The provisional ranking tables of beneficiaries of a total budget of 76.200,000 euros before objections have been made public. The procedure for examining objections has been completed and the necessary accession decisions are expected to be adopted within the next few days and the implementation of these projects also begins. But of course you want to underestimate the work we do and the work we do, which we do in cooperation with the Civil Protection and the State Secretary, Hardalia, because eighteen regions from eleven municipalities across Greece, were considered dangerous - and we prevented cleanup. From there on, it would be good to be especially today - I would say - a little more restrained in your expressions, since, like today on July 5, 2015, you were baptising the 'no' referendum in 'yes'. So your credibility and your frustration that almost got the country out of Europe really demonstrates your own unexistent work. Only words, words, words, "I'm called Rizzo and I'm always spinning it." This was SYRIZA's policy, especially for forests, and especially for the prevention of forest disasters and fires. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u175	Thank you, too, Minister. Here is the eighth Question No 903/28-6-2021 by Mr Kegeroglou, Member of the Hercules Party of the Change Movement to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "An extension for workers in the Social Welfare Programme" is necessary. The Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Mr. Panagiotis Tsakloglou, will answer. Mr. Kegeroglu has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u176	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I would like to express my concern at the development of social work programmes, since the original conception was that there was a last refuge for people who could not find work on the labour market, which was all doors closed, and the state really should have given a last way out. We called it 'the last refuge'. However, we can see from this point of view today that workers in public work programmes, particularly those relating to municipalities, regions, social welfare centres, other organisations and structures, still with the expanded concept of health programmes in all bodies, and I am referring not only to the pandemic period but also to the general context of public administration, public bodies and permanent needs for a period of time. They cover for a period of standing and constant needs. This is the development and real picture of what social-benefit work workers are doing today. Of course, this raises a lot of issues. We see that decisions are taken every day in the courts. More decisions are taken in the courts than in politics, rather than in the government, in the Ministries in relation to the future of the programmes. Recently, in Heraklion there have been decisions on extensions of the previous Joint Work Programme and some decisions on the current programme that is now ending. So what concerns me is evolution. I ask the Government how it sees it, how it sees it for these workers, especially when they do not do an eight-month period, but when we have continued the programme and many times through legislation and the urgency of the pandemic, but also because of the health needs and we have many years of workers in fact. I ask how it thinks in future notices to evaluate and make use of these people's experience or whether it is going to make use of the European Court of Justice's decision, which refers to such cases and to enable them to join the permanent staffing capacity with some assessment. It is, of course, a wider reflection, but I would like to know whether it is concerned with the government today and what it intends to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u177	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u178	Thank you very much, Madam President, and thank you very much to Mr Kegeroglu. The OAED Call of 4/2020, published on 9-6-2020 and applied the provisions of the Joint Ministerial Decision of 27-3-2020, concerned the promotion of employment of 36 thousand five hundred people through their placement in jobs in municipalities, regions, social welfare centres and related bodies in ministries and other public sector bodies. This Social Benefit Programme was co-financed by the European Social Fund through the Operational Programme for the Development of Human Resources, Education and Lifelong Learning and from the OAED budget. The project aimed at reconnecting the long-term unemployed and vulnerable groups with the labour market, upgrading the skills of the unemployed, meeting social needs and linking the skills of the unemployed to the needs of the local society. In other words, it is a typical case of an active employment policy programme within the framework of the relevant programmes implemented by the OAED and, more generally, within the framework of the policies promoted by the European Commission. You referred to this, too, Mr Kegeroglu. The characteristics of the programme were, on the one hand, the placement of unemployed people in specific jobs of the above organisation for eight months and, on the other, participation in a theoretical training programme of up to 50 hours depending on the subject they would choose, which would lead to a certification of the knowledge and skills acquired through the public utility programme. These features of the programme are similar to those of previous OAS Joint Work Programmes. What was not known during the planning period of this programme is obviously the pandemic of COVID -19 and its intensity and timing, as well as the need for exceptional measures by the state to limit the spread and protect public health. Mr Kegeroglu, according to the information provided to me by the competent services, during the pandemic many mayors, district managers and government officials raised concerns about the possible completion of the Social Work Programme and then, according to their claims, they were unable to cover essential day-to-day functions of their agencies and services. In this context, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs since January this year has received a large number of requests for an extension of the programme. We are talking about dozens of letters on a weekly basis, about requests and questions that mayor, regional and also benefit. We didn't close our eyes to the problem. Instead, as Minister Kostis Hadjidakis has announced for the first time since the Step of the House, in a timely question on February 12th, the Ministry would launch the necessary steps to find a solution for the beneficiaries and organisations concerned, given the strong uncertainty on the labour market. More specifically, on April 1st, in a meeting with the presidents of the CEDE and the Institute for Local Development, the Minister announced the extension for two months of the current Joint Employment Programme and hence the employment of those involved in it. At the same time, announcing the opening of negotiations with the institutions of the European Commission on another last Joint Work Programme under the ESDP of the current programming period, that is, 2014-2020, was announced. For the new Social Benefit Programme, namely what will be done with the current public service participants, the design provides for linking to the other programmes running or launched from the new programming period and the resources to be used by the Recovery Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u179	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u180	For the specific programme to which you referred, you recognised in conjunction with the context that it essentially covers sufficient needs. With regard to the standard designation of 'frequent and lasting', which is both legal and has to do with the application of the law, I think that here we are going to go beyond it, because what you said, the acceptance of the need and therefore the extension of the programme in order to meet these needs, says everything. I therefore believe that, since the Ministry accepts that there are needs which cannot be met in any other way, the extension should be such as to enable the institutions, whether it is self-government, or the welfare centres which have closed and open structures or other public bodies, to function until the issue is dealt with better. I think that the two months can in no way meet the needs. This performance had to be at least four months in the first place in order to have a future perspective. That's the one thing. But we need to see this. As I said at first, there are two visuals. One view is from the point of view of the Ministry of Labour, as you rightly said, which aims to give employment opportunities and concerns the unemployed, which concerns the excluded person. It concerns people who are at risk of poverty and social exclusion. You have rightly said that it is part of active employment policies. But he doesn't send them to do occupational therapy! He sends them to meet some needs. So let's go now from the other perspective. The services they're doing are working on? Do civil servants replace, as was the case once with the notorious STAGE programme? No, of course not. Today we have a huge subsidization of public bodies, municipalities, first-line services and these workers are meeting these needs. So, on the other hand, we have to bear in mind that the services cannot function either hypothetically if they do not have the support of these people. And it's not the three and a half thousand of this program alone. It is also the previous one, who continue with judicial decisions to work, who are the subsidiary, who are also the contractors of the OAED. Only in health should ancillary contractors working in hospitals, health centres and other health establishments be close to 15 000. So, apart from taking care of this programme and extending it, you must see how - and this is a whole issue of the Government, of course, it is not just the Ministry of Labour, to be clear, it is a whole question of the government - you will make use of this human potential, through an evaluation process, through the institutions that exist, the AACC and others, in order to see how they belong to our country's headquarters. In the new notice, I would suggest that, in conclusion, in a word, the programme should be more effective and because of my experience - except that I have not been able to do so, due to the end of the term in the next programme, precisely - I should like to say to the Ministry of Labour to ensure that certain resources are provided by the ESF in order to make the programme public. The body which you will serve from either the state budget, if it is a public body, or, if it is a local authority, from its own budget, provides that it is required, if it considers that these needs exist, that it may or should be discussed for a year, if it is the original recruitment, another year to be financed by this body - to allow the unemployed to work at the same time, in the municipalities and services, to meet their needs. It is, I think, something that we need to see, that the Agency and the public, beyond the ESF, are also involved in these people's employment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u181	Thank you, Mr. Colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u182	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Kegeroglu, a clarification. I did not say in my speech that the needs these workers meet are fixed and lasting. I said that applicants characterise these needs as standing and durable. Obviously, some needs are met by these workers. As to the nature of these needs, I did not go into crisis. As I mentioned in my prototype, the joint ministerial decision of April provided an extension of two months in the programme, with provision for re-introduction for those who had been placed earlier in positions, for whom it had been completed in the eight-month period. Today we are in the period of this two-month extension to be completed at the end of July. The participants in the programme shall carry out the training and thus fulfil the main objectives of the programme, which shall be the placement to jobs for a specific period and the training with certification of knowledge and skills. In the meantime, as has been announced, the procedures for the proclamation of the new social benefit programme, which we are negotiating with the European Commission, are going on to alleviate the negative effects of high unemployment, but also the effects of the coronary on the labour market. The aim is to implement the new programme in August 2021, so that there are no significant deficiencies in the services of public administration and self-government in this critical period. Therefore, the programme which is being completed cannot be extended until it runs counter to the European Commission's regulations. In particular, according to the information we have from the sub-direction of implementing active employment policies, this agency has taken the following steps: In negotiations with the European Commission, in order to ensure the current two-month extension, which was approved in writing by co-financed funds. It plans to issue a new social benefit programme immediately for twenty-five thousand beneficiaries, in order to give employment opportunities to other unemployed people during the critical pandemic period in the country. He took note of the further support for vulnerable groups in the long-term unemployed and benefited from the public-benefit schemes, mobilising with ninety molecules experience in public-private work programmes in the context of the current call for consultation, support, training, certification and promotion of unemployed people aged thirty to forty-nine years in technical skills of peak sectors. In conclusion, I would like to refer to the part of your question, which you did not develop here, but it was in the last part of your question, which actually seems to urge that the participants be mobilised in the above programmes in calls for permanent employment. I would like to point out, first of all, that this is not a matter for the Ministry of Labour, it is for the Ministry of Interior. You have also suggested that. But, more generally, I think that we should be particularly vigilant in our generosity in similar cases, as such action could lead to the very competitive process of the notice, bringing disadvantaged people who have not benefited from participation in short-term employment support programmes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u183	Thank you, Minister. We shall now proceed to the last question of parliamentary scrutiny. We will now discuss the sixth question by number 4819/8-32021 of the SYRIZA Members' circle of petitions - Progressive Alliance of Olympia Tyloridou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject of 'Extension of support for workers in the fur industry'. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Tsakloglu. Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u184	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Undersecretary, good evening. We have tabled the question of extending support for workers in the fur sector together with Mrs Vetta, who is next to me, Mr Kosanis, since 8 March. A week ago we turned it into a timely one, because there was no action and no response from the Ministry. The fur industry is one of the most extroverted and exporting branches in our country with most of the workforce in Kastoria and Siatista working in it. There are a thousand forty businesses, mainly individual companies, but also companies. On the basis of the "ERGANI" computer system, two thousand twenty-three people work and, on the basis of the OAED data, two hundred and seventy-nine workers are long-term unemployed. For a second consecutive season, the industry accepts, in addition to the economic crisis that passed in previous years due to international conditions, and the financial consequences of the pandemic, because the markets to which this sector is addressed continue to be closed. The limitation of movements and the non-existence of international reports mean that the products produced in the last two years are in warehouses and in windows, so that new products are not required, so no new work is required. According to the Kastoria Chamber of Commerce, in 2019 we had exports of ready-to-end fur of 108m euros, while in the first half of 2020 we had twelve times down, i.e. 800,000 euros. This negative development leads to the majority of workers in our region - because, as I have said, the majority is employed in this sector - in desperation and in a financially suffocating situation, which combined with violent deprivation in western Macedonia, and the fact that no government measures are already mentioned to make the situation very difficult. Additional measures to safeguard the jobs of the labour force are necessary. Support for employment in a region of 55% of unemployment is an obligation for the government to support not only the industry, but also this sensitive region of the country, for social, humanitarian and national reasons. Otherwise, mass migration will continue especially of young people to seek work either internally or abroad, resulting in huge economic and social impacts on the region and worsening the already burdened demographic problem in our region. For all these reasons, I think that the continuation of the suspension of existing employment contracts is necessary, without an eligibility clause, as you did two days ago and while we had made the question up to date by giving a one-month extension, with specific criteria, to have - says - 70% reduction in turnover a business to join. We believe that prolongation is possible on the part of the government. We are talking about two thousand workers and relatively limited costs. Questions, then: Are you prepared to suspend until at least the autumn, if not by the end of the year, to help people who really are in despair because they have no choice? Unfortunately, the government has not created any conditions to give another perspective. Are you prepared to prolong the suspension of work as demanded by the fur union and industry operators? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u185	Thank you, my colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u186	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for your question. Over the last sixteen months, i.e. since the pandemic, the government has taken a set of measures to support the incomes of households and businesses. Acknowledging the fact that the impact of the pandemic and the measures on the economy was and still is important, we recognise the need to support households and businesses at this difficult time. This support from the government is practical and to speak with real data, has been spent or planned to spend almost EUR 38 billion for the period 2020-2021 on measures relating to pandemic. All this in a country where the debt to the Gross Domestic Product is the second highest in the world, has already exceeded 200%. According to the available figures, these measures have proved effective, as Greece is one of the few European Union countries where unemployment not only increased during the pandemic period, but also decreased by one percentage point. Obviously the support measures could not be absent from the fur industry, which is of great value both for the local economies of Kastoria and Siatista and in general for western Macedonia. Like many other sectors, the fur industry was either supported by an extension of the payment of insurance contributions or by inclusion in the 'CONTRIAL AND WORK' programme or by the suspension of contracts of employment. The relevant conditions for providing support were the same as in other sectors. More specifically for the suspensions, the fur industry had already been included in the list of branches affected by the pandemic since the beginning of June. Consequently, those undertakings could make use of the measure of suspension of employment contracts up to 30 June. On 1 July the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs issued a communication on the 'roadmap' of suspensions for the month of July. In this communication it states that enterprises, that is to say employers, may suspend contracts of employment of their employees whose working hours are at least sixteen hours a week, provided that they are subject to VAT and have a reduction in turnover which is greater than or equal to 70% in the period from 1 April 2020 to 31 March 2021. If I judge the numbers you quote in your question, all companies should belong to this category. To be perfectly honest, I have not been able to cross-check those figures you have, nor to unemployment. You don't cross them anywhere. The rest have not been cross-checked by official evidence, but let me accept that it is exactly what you say. as I mentioned earlier, 70% reduction is required in relation to the period from 1 April 2019 to 31 March 2020, i.e. before the pandemic, as shown by the data from the periodic VAT returns submitted to the ADI up to 30-6-2021. In the list of SMRs that have been included in the above measures, the undertakings in the fur sector are also involved, and I therefore consider that the Ministry of Labour itself responds to your question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u187	Thank you, too, Minister. You have the floor, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u188	Minister, you have started your answer by saying that overall measures taken by the government have been taken. I was very specific. But even for these collectives that you say they cost 38 billion, I tell you that you were able to do it, as our government left you a 37 billion pillow and not empty funds. We tabled this question and said that on Wednesday you proposed a suspension for another month. To put a question every month and take it month after month, because we see that this government must be pressed to make some decisions. You know, this sector is a special case in a particular area and it needs substantial support. This morning at the Ministry of Labour there was a meeting of the worker union. The Ministry's leadership did not accept to see them, because it obviously sees BSE as large business groups. Minister, when you decide on the future of the workers, I would suggest that you meet the workers, not to deceive them and not to disappoint them. Even this one month with the tick, he says, has fallen by 70%, proves that the measures planners do not know the specificities of the sectors. It should, he says, have a 70% reduction over the period from April 2019 to March 2020. Otherwise, he says, it's not a affected operation, so there's no need to support the measure. Let me tell you, therefore, that 95% of the tobacco companies are excluded and workers are excluded. And I'll explain why. Among the comparable periods 2019-2020 and 2020-2021 the price of the raw material of the industry was launched, as was the case with other auxiliary materials. He's tripled. This increase in raw material and auxiliary materials led to an increase in the final price of the products. Therefore, it led to disproportionately increased comparisons. For example, in order to be understood, if one unit of product in April 2019 had a price of EUR 500, the same unit of product in March 2021 has a price of EUR 2,000. As a result, the unit price in 2021 amounts to a value of four points of the reference period. This is therefore increasing the turnover, but even so most companies, even with these prices, have a 30% reduction in turnover -60%, and in no case compensate for the need to produce new products. On the basis of this, workers in the industry are thrown into the ballot of the unusables. There were no reports in the whole of 2020 and the whole of 2021. Tourism in particular by the countries to which the product has been mentioned - Russia, Korea and China - has not existed. Movements are limited. You know, these products are a specialized and non-standard species, which wants a natural presence to buy. As you say, what you say about the increase in turnover is not due to an increase in business and professional activity, but to an increase in production costs. So it's something you need to see. Kastoria is suffering. Two thousand people are two thousand families. It's an area at the edge, in the land of Greece. There's no alternative. You need to help them and support them. It's the state's obligation. For decades Kastoria has offered the national economy. The government has no right to abandon it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u189	Thank you, my colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u190	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs. Tyloridou, I would like to start with two comments. The first thing you said about the stock left by SYRIZA. The stock left by SYRIZA is intact right now. The coverage has been made by lending on the markets with historically low interest rates, which was mainly the result of our country participating in the quantitative relaxation program...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u191	Mrs. Tyloridou, I have not interrupted you. I would ask you to listen to me. ... because he participates in the programme of the quantitative relaxation of the European Central Bank, which are both very big successes of the government. Secondly, I said that the figure that you have to have said is 70% of the reduction in turnover. What are you telling me in your question? In your question, I read the numbers as you have already said. You say that exports - and not to be foolish, fur production is mainly exporting - on the domestic market there are few sales that have been made - since 2019, which was EUR 108 million, in the first half of 2020 was only EUR 800,000. To reach the whole number, this 30% should be in the second half of the year for sales to go about forty times more. I think your question shows that this has not happened. Now, as I have said before in my prototype, I think I have answered your basic question about what is going on with the suspension of employment contracts. However, since you are also talking about the inadequacy of this measure in your question, I would like to remind you that it is not all that has been taken. In particular, there are other measures, such as a rental discount or a housing loan, for workers who have been suspended. Apart from that, however, I must point out that pandemic is a dynamic process - you are writing it in your question too - and that the development of pandemic cannot be predicted. That is why the Ministry of Labour and the Government as a whole are ready to take steps to support the labour market, workers and businesses if necessary. Until now, in these sixteen months that the pandemic lasts, the government has shown that it has reflexes to respond to the appropriate measures. We all wish, but also the task of all of us, that the vaccinations be progressed quickly, that the pandemic and all these measures should not be put into practice again. It is no doubt a very difficult time to test the strengths not only of the Greek but of the global economy. I repeat, however, that in relation to the country's budgetary situation the support given is high and as widely as possible in all the sectors affected. The government will continue to offer this safety net for as long as required by health conditions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u192	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make a statement to this House: The Ministers of Infrastructure and Transport, Economic, Development and Investment, Environment and Energy, Justice, as well as the Deputy Ministers of Finance, Development and Investment and Home Affairs submitted on 05-07-2021 a draft law: ‘Strengthening from 24.06.2021 Agreement amending its Provisions from 31.05.2007 Concession Agreement for the Project “Study, Construction, Financing, Maintenance and Exploration of the Car of Central Greece (E65)” ratified by Law 3597/2007 (A'168), as amended: 1) by the Amendment Agreement of 28.11.2013 ‘Amendment Agreement of the Concession Convention’ ratified by its second sentence. 4219/2013 ‘Modification of the Agreements amending the Concessions of Major Road Projects and Settlement of related Issues’ (A'269), 2) by the 19.12.2013 ‘Agreement amending the Provisions of Concession Agreement’ ratified by Article 44 of the Act. 4354/2015 ‘Management of non-performing loans, wage arrangements and other urgent provisions implementing the Financial Objectives and Structural Reform Agreement (A'176)’ (A'176) by the Agreement of 11.12.2018 ‘Agreement amending the Provisions of the Concession Convention’ ratified by Article 1 of the Agreement. Regulation (EC) No 4586/2018 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 December 2017 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by the Community institutions and bodies and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Regulation (EC) No 4586/2018 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 217, 18.8.2018, p. 1). Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed. I would like to ask the House: do you accept this point of order?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-05-S1-commons.u193	With the consent of the House at 18.52 the sitting for Tuesday, 6 July 2021, at 10.00, on the subject of this House's legislative work, on the agenda which has been distributed to you.
