ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[To enter pages 2 to 4]] The meeting's on. It's the first meeting for this year and I wish a good year, with health to all of you and your families. I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I will proceed with some communications. The first communication concerns the recent governmental change that has taken place. For economic reasons, it is submitted in the Minutes and reads as follows: The second communication concerns a document by the Prime Minister, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, to Mr Konstantinos Tsouulas, President of the Greek Parliament, which knows that a parliamentary representative of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group is appointed by Mr Ioannis Vroutis and his alternates. Christos Boukokokos, Athanasios Ploris and Ms Maria - Helen (Marilena) Soulis - Vilialis. Also, the President of the Change Movement, Mrs Gennimatas, in a document to the President of Parliament, knows that according to Rule 17(2) and (4) of the Rules of Procedure of Parliament, the Members of Parliament are appointed as Parliamentary Representatives of the Change Movement. Konstantinos Scandalidis and Michael Katrinis. An announcement from 13-1-2021. I have the honour to inform you that the Minister of Justice has forwarded to Parliament, in accordance with Rule 86 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2003, the criminal liability of the ministers, as is true, on the 29-12-2020 case-law of the former Minister for Administrative Reconstruction, Mr Xinoyannakopoulou. A communication to this House, too, from 13-1-2021. The Ministers for Foreign Affairs, Finance, Development and Investment, Citizen Protection, National Defence, Environment and Energy, Culture and Sport, Justice, Home Affairs, Migration and Asylum, Infrastructure and Transport, Maritime and Island Policy, Rural Development and Food, Tourism and State, as well as the Deputy Ministers for Development and Investment and Foreign Affairs, submitted a draft law entitled ‘Determining the range of the gynaecological zone in the Ionian Sea and the Ionian Islands up to Cape Tinaro in Peloponnese on 8 January 2021’. The Ministers of National Defence, Finance, Development and Investment, Justice and the Deputy Minister of Finance tabled a draft law on January 11, 2021: "Approval of draft contracts in the field of defence". They shall be referred to the competent Standing Committees. I know you, ladies and gentlemen, that before we enter the agenda, we will take the oath of our colleague Mr Panagiotis Kouroublis, who replaces Mr Athanasios Papachristopoulos, who has lost his parliamentary status, in accordance with the decision of the Supreme Special Court No 17/29-12-20. Mr Panagiotis Kouroublis is called upon to come and give the nominated by the Constitution and the Rules of the House an oath before the representative of the Church. [[At this point the Member, Mr Panagiotis Kourublis, comes and gives the following oath:]] "I swear in the name of the Holy and Omousiasias and Indivisible Trinity to be loyal to the homeland and the democratic city, to obey the Constitution and the laws and to fulfill conscientiously my duties."
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u3	Worthful, worthy!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u4	Mr Colleague, welcome, good power in your work and health to respond to our duties.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u6	We are now entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of the Interior: "Moderation of the system of recruitment in the public sector and strengthening of the Higher Board of Personnel Selection (ASE).(')'. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting of 16 December 2020 to discuss the draft law at a single meeting in principle, articles and all. As regards the organisation of the debate, it is proposed, in addition to the rapporteurs - special speakers and parliamentary representatives, as well as ministers, and a circle of speakers who will be involved in a natural presence. Two circles of speakers will also be added to this debate by teleconferencing via the Webex platform. In particular, with a natural presence the rapporteurs, special speakers and parliamentary representatives will participate, as well as a circle comprising twelve speakers, five from New Democracy, three from SYRIZA, one from the Change Movement, one from the Communist Party of Greece, one from the Greek Solution and one from Mera25. With a teleconferencing service, i.e. the Webex platform, two speakers are proposed. Each cycle will comprise up to twelve speakers, with the same ratio as I mentioned earlier. The name of the speaker has already been assigned by the Parliamentary Groups by letters. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u7	The House has agreed. The rapporteur, Mr Savvas Snowides, therefore has the floor for 15 minutes. Minister, welcome to your new duties. We wish health and strength!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u9	Mr. Snowides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to wish that we have a good year which has fewer problems, more solutions and more progress for all of us, for the whole of the Greek people, for all of Hellenism. I would like to congratulate the Minister, Mr Vorides, on taking up his duties, believing that what has always been the case in administrative posts was realism, targeting and visionary approach, but within fully defined frameworks. I should also welcome Panagiotis Kourublis. Welcome, dear and friend Minister Panagiotis Kourublis! Really, your presence is extremely useful, as it will prove. I would also like to express and inform the House of the condolences to the deceased former MEP from my region, Pieria, Theodore Mitra and of wishing the relatives and all his own people, but also to his political family and the entire political world, to be his memory possible, as was his presence in recent years. By entering into the matter of the draft law, ladies and gentlemen, we see that, over the years, some major leaps are taking place by people who are inspired and who do not look at the political cost in Greece. It also belongs to Anastassis Peponis, who made a very important cut, a progress in the Greek system, in the operation of the Greek state and not just. Although the seasons were different, even though they were too early to be understood by too many, today is the basis. There was an obligation to move forward, to enrich this law, which gave equal opportunities or treated equally, so that it now becomes more pragmatic. This merits us the government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, we all represent the Greeks and it is something that is in the consciousness of all the Greeks, something that we owe and is perfectly understandable. This law, therefore, will help to maintain transparency, objectivity, dignity and efficiency, as well as to strengthen the Higher Council for Personnel Selection as a public recruitment authority. So what does that law say? I would not like to formalize every article because everyone knows us. So it says that we are now going to a single written competition. The single written invitation to tender was provided for both in the previous 1994 law and in the changes made. However, this has not been used, except for 5% of all recruitments made in the public sector since it was created to date. Also, this public competition will have evidence, not only of knowledge, but also of how one can be more effective in his work, about work efficiency. It is important today and I think it will be acceptable on all sides that it is important and important to have qualifications and qualifications. From there on, however, it is of enormous importance to today's era and especially to what skills are there for tomorrow. These are expressions of personality itself. It's not just formal qualifications. So is this issue solved with the bill we are discussing? It is clear and clear because there will be a distinct test of skills and work efficiency, which gives the essence of merit. It is only the equal treatment of all candidates and it is quite different to evaluate on scientific criteria. Many have had doubts about this, whether skills can be assessed. But we don't find out about powder. This has been applied repeatedly in all advanced countries from America to the whole of Europe. In addition, they use it to judge the skills of the new entrant, and too many states: Germany, France, Italy, Portugal and a number of other states, which very much appreciate the skills issue. A second part to which we are referring is whether it gives groups which do not have any potential, namely SMEs, equal opportunities? Does it give the multitude that we want to strengthen potential? It is clear and clear that very high rates are maintained for multitudes, tritecs, MEDIs, relatives of MEDIs, but without removing the other possibilities, such as repetitives and a number of other groups which need to be protected and with more access to the public space. To conclude, not to mention the figures -16, 12, 5 etc. - I want to say that one in two of these contests will belong to these special categories. The rate is too high. Nevertheless, I believe that we need to help these people who contribute to the national objective as well as to the objective we have set for the right development. So some people were saying - and we heard it in all the committees - that the law of Peponnes is being abolished. This is, of course, 'not without'. The Peponnes Act is not only abolished, but it continues to apply, and in fact there are security differences in its transparency and effectiveness. Some people say that care will be created. Possibly. It is much younger, however, and I would like to answer that in the pan-Hellenic examinations, which are a well-known institution of equal treatment for those who are trying to introduce, there are caregivers. What would the proposal be? Do we have to abolish all-Hellenic exams because they become caregivers? Also, there were objections to postgraduate. Are they counting as a formal qualification? It is clear and clear and indeed in the context of dialogue. Many have said that there is one victory on one side or one retreat on the other side. In a dialogue there are no victories or retreats. There was a dialogue which, with all the procedures of good legislation, through consultation, discussions in committees, acceptance by the Minister, Mr Vorides of all the logics that do not escape the central direction of the legislation. And in this sense clearly, the Master's degree, doctorals, comes in in a good way and is related. As far as what has been done to date is an engineer and a graduate in the history of European Culture, for example, to say that it is worthwhile and important that this effort on how to build up is of no special value and efficiency in the performance of his duties as a technician. So it is partly counted, but what is relevant is what will count much more. Knowing foreign languages must be counted? It's accepted. It is clear and clear in a globalised society, I imagine, that it is certain, that you will also have to know a foreign language very well. That is something that was accepted because it was a perfectly reasonable proposal. So there is last part of the work experience. Of course in this part when you make the contest I will refer to below, which says "I look at your skills, I examine labour efficiency" and is valid - and I will explain why - I am sure the work experience would give more avadoz to the person who competes to respond properly, in relation to someone who has no experience. Nevertheless, because there was a substantive dialogue - and we are in favour of dialogue, and this is very important in this Chamber, learning to have a substantive dialogue - accepted the Ministry to measure and clearly describes in detail the draft law with legislative improvements that it is now working experience that counts. That is why we are strengthening dignity. There were also positions on whether the AACC is capable of responding to such a big competition. That is why the AACC is being strengthened with a Vice-President and six members and a total of thirty-five additional people. The institution of the AACC is therefore strengthened so that it can be more effective and respond in reasonable time. What's the final target? The ultimate objective is not to get, as today, to make an application three years ago, and until now we have no results, while the needs are not only running but also changing, that is, in time, we think that the conditions are changing, so we need to be quick. Are we going to succeed in this part? It is certain that we will achieve a year of the order of 12, not more than eighteen months, so that we can move in that direction. Besides, there's the part that's already running and it's obvious and we all know it and we all know it. This is about the digital upgrade to the Greek state. There's been huge steps. We're all watching it and feeling it in our everyday lives. It is therefore reasonable that the anticipation and time that is to come, that is, after about a year from today or fifteen months, these competitions will be carried out - the reasonable period - so interoperability will have been strengthened, that is, interoperability, that the Greek State can have the database from the universities to take the diplomas or postgraduate degrees without needing further suffering. The same will apply to the experience from the FBI. This is something that we look forward to and is not a waste expectation. It's something we see in front of us. We have already made a lot of progress in this part. Especially in these conditions of pandemic, we see that the Ministries continue to work intensively, production goes on, pushing society for tomorrow because our gaze, all of us, is and should be in how it will work after the pandemic of Greek public, the Greek society and the economy. I would like to say that in the whole, we are collecting all the provisions, namely some who were hired by the OAS, some of them by the public, each under its own criteria always under the supervision of the AACC. However, transparency has to do with uniform conditions, as the system of pan-Hellenic examinations is generally accepted. We therefore believe that, in these circumstances, we should vote in favour of this draft law because, in fact, it makes a great contribution to the direction that we are all discussing, we all support. And you want something else? We must also support an effort that Anastasios Peponis made at that time, although this effort has not been re-elected, and finally learn that big sectors often show political costs. So we support, build, move on to equal treatment is now becoming a spectacular or more remarkable one because some concepts were called for political reasons. Equality is another, equal treatment is another, something different. The time has come for this because the seasons have it, because we have more computing power, because we have a better organization in the state, but above all because society has matured and, above all, has matured the political system in a more positive direction. In this sense, I call on everyone and everyone to vote in favour of this draft law on which huge effort and work has been made - I see the Minister Theodorikos - over a year to do this. It didn't happen either accidentally or quickly. It's done with all the good legacy conditions. I therefore call on us to vote in favour of something that will do enormous good to Greece today and tomorrow. Mr President, I would like to wish Mr Bouga well enough to take up his position as a Parliamentary representative and Mr Plory - to whom I wished in particular - and Mr Scandalides. Be well and positive throughout Parliament. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, too. Mr Konstantinos Zachariadis is now the rapporteur of SYRIZA. The Bureau wishes to all of them, when we read the replacements and definitions at the beginning of the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u12	I too wish those who have taken on the new tasks, both Mr Buga and Mr Scandalides, a good start. In particular, of course, Mr Plouris, who is known for his moderateness and mild speech. I think we will have very nice meetings and debates in Parliament. In this Chamber it is good to be able to learn and remember history. The establishment of PASOK by the PASOK government in 1994 by Anastasios Peponnis is, in our opinion, the most serious reform that has taken place in the Greek public administration and that has enabled democratic staffing of the public, social mobility on the basis of the principles of dignity, objectivity, equality and transparency. The New Democracy then, of course, voted against. Why? Because he's in right-wing DNA and never changes the rushphetti, opacity, anxiocracy, clientdom. No matter how many years New Democracy has passed, it never changes. For SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, but also for every progressive citizen, transparency, objectivity are principles unnecessarily negotiated. For the progressive phase, these principles are unnegotiable. For every European citizen, these principles are unnegotiable. For the New Democracy, however, the blue certificate is valid. For the Minister of the Interior is 'and who should we appoint? Should we appoint the others, the strangers?' I read, Minister, as you indicated to me the other day, the Contozamani statement. I read it very carefully. Unfortunately, it's worse than I thought, than I understood at first. From the applause to the curse for the sanitary. The government is once again causing doctors, nurses, the world of the first line. I would remind you a few months ago, when we were talking about private beds, IFs were answering by the Government by an oral government representative "finished money". Now he says that for the people who "go" out of the ICU, it is the doctors who are responsible when everyone knows that they have been imprisoned outside the ICU. You said, Minister, that those who make such announcements are SYRIZA. And you said it disgraceful. Minister, and OENGE is SYRIZA? I would like to start today's speech to make a brief reference to the subject of homosexuality. I see a permanent specole on your side, Mr Voridis, that SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance does not like the relatives, that he is afraid of their vote and other strange ones. So let us try to put things in a logical order. It was the right-wing governments who led thousands of our compatriots to immigration in the 1950s, 1960s and 1970s, Mr Vorides. The left-wing state of the right which you are so nostalgic about, with its anti-grassroots policies and the social certificates, was what forced much of the country's population to look for work in the factories of America, Australia, Germany and the coal mines of Belgium. And it was the same party, your party, which caused another great wave of immigration, leading the country to bankruptcy in 2009, which led it to economic bankruptcy, after it had been bankrupt at the level of principles and values with your old-fashioned, unworthiness, social inequalities that you created. This time, immigrants were not unskilled workers, as in the past, but young people in my generation of a high level of education. My classmates, my classmates, are gone. It was your policies that led to the best minds of Greece abroad. The migration of the past decades and the modern 'brain drain' bear the same signature, Mr Vorides, as the right-wing party. And you're telling us that we don't want to vote for the homosexuals! I would remind you, therefore, that we are the ones who started the process of the Legislative Committee at the Ministry of Interior. We are the ones who started the constitutional review on this issue. We are the ones who voted - together with you and the other parties - on the arrangements for the on-the-spot vote of the homosexuals, of course by putting the necessary safeguards to ensure that those who acquire the right to maintain a real relationship with their own country. You who have forty years done nothing to start this thing, blame us! In order to be absolutely clear, however, and to end with this spiral, SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance faces with absolute respect and surrounds Greek seculars around the world and, at the same time, a realistic plan for the resurgence of "brain drain" and the launch of "brain gain" presents concrete proposals. It is imperative to return to Greece of these excellent scientists who left the country in the years of bankruptcy and the memorials in search of a basic professional guarantee, because, Mr Voridis, you lower the minimum wage, you put the signal on the employer's arbitrariness, you made the law on the private sector, of course. Homogeneity, Mr Voridis, is not only Mr Diamandaris of false biography and "fake" of excellence. Homosexual is not the few who protested with the thoughts and chlamydia in the United States of America or Australia. They obviously belong to your circle of influence, Mr. Voridis. Really, now that you're not only honoring, but also respecting the Prespecies Agreement, what are you going to tell them? How are you gonna convince them? In any case, this is a matter that is yours and concerns a very minority group in the family. But be sure that the vast majority of the homosexuals are people with an international view of things, open-minded, open-minded. I also want you to know that the progressive political currents from global Hellenism will meet in the joint effort to create a better future for our country, for Greeks within and outside the walls. So I challenge you, Mr. Voridis, and I invite you and me to do "debate" with open matter for international political developments and our country, to call Hellenism all over the earth, to listen to it and to discuss it. Here's Rhodes, Mr. Voridis! I was amazed - and I would like to ask you about this - that is an issue that relates to a first debate that can be held in connection with homogenous Hellenism. Greek Prime Minister, in his statements on shocking images in Washington with the invasion of Trump's fans in Capitol, he did not refer to the extreme right! Don't you see any cargo on what happened across the Atlantic? Does he not want to disturb the "philotrabic" wing of his party or yet does he not want to talk about the borders of the far right and right in Greece and Europe? You, Mr. Voridis, what do you think? Is this a building right and right? Are they competitive forces? Are they co-operating?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u13	It's a rhetorical question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u14	I remember that some decade ago, the New Democracy - this party, Mr Kalafatis - had a clear position on these issues. You said at that time about Mr Ploris, the parliamentary representative, Mr Georgiadis, the Minister for Development, but also about Mr Vorides, the Minister for the Interior - then they were sitting up there - that they are marginal and extreme. Today, what do you think? Come and talk about Trump, Mr. Voridis. Do you want to? Will you accept? Open the microphone.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u15	(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u16	We're not having a conversation. Then the Minister will answer, if necessary.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u17	Why? You don't want to?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u18	I was thinking maybe we were talking about the bill!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u19	Minister, don't answer now. You'll answer a total after that. You have several issues to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u20	A second theme, Mr. Voridis, hold it...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u21	We are not having a dialogue, Mr Colleague, as you know.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u22	And the day before yesterday, we were talking about ADP, but you did twelve minutes' closure for the family. So you'll hear it. Games with the same family, and the Ministry of Interior won't play. If you want, I challenge you and I invite you. Here you are and whenever you want to open the microphone with the Bureau's permission. A second issue concerns posters. Just yesterday...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u23	Excuse me, Mr President, two minutes. I do not accept the challenges of parliamentarians. If Mr Zachariadis wants to debate, we will now do so. This is not the parliamentary procedure. It's your responsibility, so make up your mind. I, in this Chamber, have said that I also accept holidays, and if they cause me, I will take a vacation. But we're going to have a coordinate conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u24	Press the button after, Mr. Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u25	I mean, smart parliamentarians, not me!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u26	It's not smart at all, and you don't have a teachery and underestimating style to me, because it doesn't take you! And it doesn't take you personally - it doesn't matter - but it doesn't matter. You don't get to move the finger on us! It doesn't take you! It doesn't take you!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u27	Wait a minute, Mr. Zachariadis, put things in place. And the holidays are not provided for by the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u28	The second one...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u29	Let us just put things in place because, of course, this is not a fundamental issue. For the first time the issue of the homosexuals has been put before the government of Costas Karamanlis. The layout is formed in 2012...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u30	Mr President, don't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u31	...when I had the honor and I was...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u32	Mr President, you are ceasing my suggestion!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u33	Listen. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u34	But don't do that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u35	Where does he obey what you are doing now, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u36	That's not a point. It's a restoration because I was Minister of the Interior...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u37	Good. You can say that later, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u38	...and the proposal was tabled in March 2016...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u39	You are talking about the substance of the legislation!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u40	Please! I know the Rules of Procedure better than you do.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u41	But you're breaking him!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u42	You're wrong! We are not talking about the substance!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u43	You interrupted the rapporteur...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u44	It is not about the substance of the legislation! So the proposal in March 2016 by Kyriakos Mitsotakis, which SYRIZA never introduced, was tabled! Therefore, we must end this with the issue of the family. Go ahead with the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u45	The federation's over. We will be making debate apart from Ethiopia, I believe, with Mr Vorides, so that we do not spoil the Rules of Procedure. And with Mr. Pleari I'm doing, I'm fine with it. For posters, the expenditure of the imperial presidency of the Government of Mr Mitsotakis is estimated at EUR 34 million for the new period. The cost of the general secretaries under the Prime Minister has been launched. And you came to the committee the other day and you fought us. You told us: “How dare you talk about posters? That's a big deal. You also had one!' Are you serious, Mr. Voridis? For four and a half years you have set up a huge propaganda for the so-called SYRIZA party state. You've been reporting inaccurate data on unprecedented poster spending. You smuggled people, because they were just partners of SYRIZA Ministers. Today you have record record recorders and you have raised 65% - 70% of their earnings! You have therefore appointed posters to posts of permanent civil servants and you have limited the incompatibilities and the obstacles. You have reduced the prognostication of the poster so that everyone can be appointed independently, with only qualifications in high school and you come and ask us for the change because we react! I'll tell you why we react: 'Cause you're liars and hypocrites. We react because you deceived the Greek people to hoard their vote. We react, because the civilian personnel who run the country lead it to destruction. We're responding to your inability. We react for your inadequacy. You're the worst government ever. And don't start my administrative and state lessons again. We know what it is for you and the administration and the state: always opportunity! Opportunity or to sell or to suck it out. That's why you staffed the hospital administrations, so you manage the state. You always suck, destroy, sell and come after and talk about worthyness, the moment that you have rattled every sense of sovereignty, every sense of good administration, every sense of seriousness in the staffing of the state apparatus and, first of all, of your own government. Did you forget Mr. Diadiarioris with the fake degrees from Columbia, Mr. Kontolete of the U.N.A. with the nonexistent degree that you changed the law afterward? Do you remember him? Mr. Luli, the Secretary General of the Ministry of Tourism remember him? The commander of the Carditsa Hospital who confessed to haggling with the Prime Minister for some votes you remember him? For one and a half years you have been making every effort to get us back in the 1960 ’ s. Shall we go to the issues of transparency, too? Why don't you make the contract public with CISCO on telematics, Mr. Voridis? Why don't you make the PALANTIR contract public to see what you've signed? What do these conventions hide? What are you afraid of? What are you hiding from the Greek people? Why have you allowed the pandemic all this tsunami of direct assignments in opaque terms? I could talk for hours about the facts of your government and about the reintroduction of the worst practices in the past. But I don't want to misuse time. I think everyone in this Chamber now has understood. You're coming here to talk about ADP and merit. Let's be honest. You don't believe in S.H.I.E.L.D., you don't believe in merit. Have you changed minds? I wish you'd changed minds. Did not one of your thousands of post-call officials tell you that the possibility of issuing single notices from the AACC and conducting written tenders is already provided for by the founding law of AACC in 1994? Have you not been informed that recruitment planning has already been foreseen since 2019? Did not they inform you that the multi-advertised facility via electronic submission is planned by order again 2019 from 1-1-2020? You could, ladies and gentlemen of the government, say that this bill is a relative codification of existing legislation. Instead, you are presenting it as a major reform. I would like, however, to be honest with you and Mr Theodorikos. Both you and your predecessor have shown positive political reflexes and adopted several of the views of the SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, but also of other parties and bodies, significantly improving the final plan. I must acknowledge that. The fact is that the improved project in several parts of it now presents a relative balance and reasonable cohesion. Nevertheless, we have no illusion. This law, if it is passed, will not remain in history, neither will Mr. Theodorikos nor you, Mr. Vorides. All those who try to have reference to deserve and fair manner of public recruitment will refer to the real reformist, Anastasios Pepponi. Despite improvements, there are serious problems. The first is what I told you in committee. It is a mistake to weight uniform criteria, regardless of the category of industry and specificity. With another combination of criteria you employ an administrative staff, with another combination of a geotechnics. If you are not ready to legislate today, make a commitment that you will see it immediately on a next legislative initiative and we will also table a proposal to you. I say this absolutely well. This process will create problems in practice. Secondly, you refer to the reinforcement of the SAEP. The APA as an organisation is not supported. Was his urgent problem the fourth vice president or the increase in members of the board? If you do care about the functioning, procedures, safety and rational management of human resources, you would proceed to bravely staffing and structural modernisation of the AACC. I invite you to discuss this and to do so. I come to the most important one. You're bringing in a new recruitment law. But are you really hiring? Here you froze the en route recruitment of teachers of general education from the government of Alexis Tsipras. Here you refuse even now to proceed to brave recruitment of permanent staff to health. Instead, you hire only poster and contractors, usually outside ASP, invoked by the pandemic and as a counter-donor, you offer to conduct a pandemic competition in the future. You are selling, in other words, a future hope in a society suffering from unemployment and at the same time closing your eyes to your electoral clientele through posters and fixed-term employees. Mr. Voridis, things are simple and, Mr President, I'll be out in half a minute. We don't trust you. You are the most anachronistic and old-fashioned expressionists in the Greek political system. If you sincerely wish to support this bill at first, you must first withdraw the large number of derogating provisions that you have adopted, altering all concepts of sovereignty in the public sector. If you wish on the top of our support, promise that you will abolish the costly imperial structure and supposedly final structure of Mr. Mitsotakis. You obviously won't. You can't do it. You are not allowed to do so by your ideals and by your clienteles and humiliations. SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance is voting against the bill at first. At the same time, however, with a high sense of responsibility towards the institutions, Parliament and the citizens will be voting 'in favour of' individual articles in the bill which, after accepting our proposals, we consider that they are moving in a rational manner. Thank you very much and thank you for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u46	Thank you too, Mr Zachariadis. The reason is now the special speaker of the Change Movement, Mrs. Evangelia Likoules.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, many years, a good year. See you in plenary for the first time. Iron Head, Minister. Welcome to our team at our ministry on all the issues we at least deal with here. We should also give the world the wish to reconvene our lives after this pandemic that alienated us and altered us, but also to say passing through to the people who are hospitalized in the clinics and the ICUs, giving the battle for life and send the wish for quick recovery. Ladies and gentlemen, today the phrase'short term' is confirmed, and it has become common'. A lot of dormant, with simple words and noises too much for what is obviously the other thing you have shown. At the end of November, the Prime Minister of the country during the Council of Ministers announced the bill we are discussing today on changing the way of recruitment through ASP, talking about a flagrant reform. That is why, as he said, it is the first to be voted on in '21, opening the door to the parliamentary work of the new year. Then the Prime Minister pointed out that this bill is the great proof that the government, despite the crisis, continues reforms and that these issues state the government's choice to respond to its needs today, starting reforms at tomorrow. Look, let's tell him the right thing, well, he said it then. The crisis has also reminded us of the reform, and it has also called for the reform, and the present one has said it has turned to the future. In simple terms, Mr Mitsotakis would be applauding to date, and even protracted, because at least the subject is a title. He's a wretched real in pandemic, bad lies, especially when you've got significant oligopolysms and adorned you didn't stand up to the circumstances. Here, today, with the vaccination platform again, you are giving rights all the time. So when you are at this point, bringing in a great reform that meets his needs and looks at tomorrow, as the Prime Minister said, can only rise to your own party. You celebrated nicely for the title. But let's see the essence. Let us make it clear, firstly, if you are really bringing in, Minister, a reform. I understood you on the committee the other day. I get your mark. You did not say that you were a reformer and that this is reform. I have already said that you have probably, first of all, been a 'legislative', committing this particular political offense, while opening up with changes brought to the Ruspheti by interviews, mobilisations at hand, targeted enlargement and stirring up of the members of the IACC - I will tell you what the bad languages say about this - and control of the central competition committee. And I'm explaining as far as the county is concerned. We are discussing an amendment of the law of Peponies, which could even be made with a circular. We are not discussing a reform. Unfortunately, I, too, am disappointed that we are not eyewitnesses and self-conscious witnesses of a revolution that would change the runway of history. But what can we do? You didn't come up with me either. With regard to the most famous pan-Hellenic contest, which is supposedly the great reform you bring, you do not bring it, as it already exists in the law of Peponis. In fact, not only does it exist, but it has been done. We're not talking about a theory here. From 1994 to 2004, twenty-three written invitations - please - and two written invitations to tender in the banking sector. So you're not bringing something great. But you're investing on something important. It is, therefore, a legal matter, because what you are saying already exists and you have not even mentioned the source in the first place. And you know what's going on in the academic community when that happens? It is not a criminal offence, but it is being expelled from the academic community, the one who does so, with a very bad recommendation for the future. You too fear political dismissals on such matters. This bill, therefore, was distributed with an excessive governmental rhetoric, in simple words, while in reality it was an amendment of the Penpillar Law with an emblematic character of post-multiple post-multiple. It has been clearly recorded in the people's consciousness as the first essential effort of PASOK to guarantee the principles of objectivity and transparency in the recruitment of the public and also the personal struggle of the late democrat, Anastasios Peponis, for this huge progressive institutional change. And unfortunately, your resignation always fearful, conservative and dehydrated by progressive ideas, not only then voted against the Penpie law, but called it "political felony" - please - by creating a chaos in the debate of those days. An excerpt from the Minutes of the time, which, with historical interest and confession to a personal awe, I read of Parliament's meetings in February 1994, shows exactly your position. So, then, your resignation self-confidence said in this Chamber and in this Step: "You must withdraw this bill for the good not anymore of the Greek public administration - because we are no longer waiting for any good from you - but so that national and social cohesion is not shaken, because this bill is biased, it is a political felony. There is only one way to go: to withdraw it. And we declare, as the President, Mr Everett, that we will restore all injustices and all products of such a party invasion. Because it is an invasion.’ That is what you said in 1994. What do you say, however, today and how sincere are you in what you say? It is characteristic that in the scope of the law there are groups of officials for whom only the previous period, Minister, your Government has legislated by way of derogation. In fact, we had the phenomenon - in which I was self-sufficient and self-sufficient - in the one room of the committee to discuss the AACC and in the other room to derogate from the rules for hiring from the window, such as the smuggling that was voted before Christmas and all the recruitments would be carried out by decision of the ELTA Board. We have seen and seen here that legal commanders should be placed on specific criteria, again ten steps back. In an amendment by the former Minister for Rural Development and Food - which coincides with being your person, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of the Interior - there has been provision for the possibility of bilateral recruitment of personnel by way of derogation from Article 21 of Law 2190/1994. The Minister of Civil Protection hires a thousand five hundred guards outside the SAP and not all Greeks and a thousand two hundred border guards, while in the recent civil protection competition, the results of which have already been posted on the website to track coronary patients, it is said that your children, "blue" children, "blue" MPs, were chosen among many others and indeed by interviewing - please - to which they were starved. In addition, on the legislative initiative of the former Minister of Interior, tens of officials, various specialities in the technical service of the ‘EUTA SA’ were recruited. So these in our debate have a value in terms of credibility. Because, having refused at the outset any reference to the Penpie Act as if it were a pepper in the language, did you then have to admit that you are making changes to this legislation - with what purpose, however? - to hire the right people to the public at the appropriate locations. That sounds really good. Your fan would applaud again, I am sure. But let's go to some assumptions so we can at least agree on what's important. One of your own assumptions, Minister, just the day before you spoke during the second reading in our committee, is that here you are trying to make a single codification, because it is precisely the legislation that is scattered because it has been subjected to forty amendments by various governments. Honest. You did not say reform, you did not say reformist, you said 'codify'. Now let's go further. The amendment of these points, which will certainly have to modernise the framework - why are we in 2021 and we have to accept that we have to move forward positively - is that so and are they going in the right direction? So you say a full-scale written competition that already exists at the ASP and you want to show it, as I said before, as something new. Good. 95% to 99% of the posts hired are carried out through the molecular system, precisely because of the cost of the competitions. You don't know that? And what do you say to the world? That so far we have chosen the objective moleculosis for the recruitment of civil servants, while the other one we have not done so far? Why has the governments concerned not so far done so? I would remind you, however, that these competitions have become many in number and thousands of employees, as I said before, have been hired in this way. The cost, however, is that more than 100 000 candidates cost more than EUR 3 million, when an AACC competition took place in writing in 2008, when it was carried out - I remind you - the skill test, which was left on paper, of course, and was never used. Let us also say about the fragmentation that has taken place, as well as about the fact that on average around EUR 24 000 is currently costing the individual, according to the European statistical accounts. So it's expensive. And when you've already lost a year and a half and you're telling us you're going to do it at the end of 2022 - and a year and a half you don't tell us why you lost him - you want three and a half years to make a contest, which you haven't yet predicted how this cost will be covered then. So, a long horizon, let's say it now, it's done and if it doesn't, it never happened. Indeed, Minister, in your sense of worthy democracy, which you have done in this bill, which I think is an unrealistic concept for every democracy - democrat and you, democrats and we - let us see if we are meeting. Primarily it means equal opportunities to everyone, regardless of where they live and independently of their economic potential. So we think: A young or middle-aged man, who lives in a remote area of the country, in a village of Larisa mountainous and lacks financial capacity, how will he really be prepared appropriately and on an equal footing for the written Greek competition, which you so advertise and which will certainly be the fabulous for development again, with caregivers, with specialists of all kinds, from language to arithmetic, to ortho-speaking and dancing on ice, according to the famous special skills you enter, but who never determine? Random? I don't think so. So you say that we will meet, if not in democracy, certainly in transparency. Transparency is an unrealistic concept for you, you say. But is it so when you institutionalise the interview - not even structured - when you filed the bill? And if it weren't for us to step up the structured interview in 2021, then the whole thing would have gone! You're bringing in the structured interview. But you know, because you are a law-abiding lawman, Mr. Voridis, that the structured interview is not legally institutionalised. A Circular exists a ministry and this, unfortunately, does not apply in all cases. So that's where there's a lot of water in the wine! So is that all that is enough with regard to the notorious question of interview? Let's see what else comes up. You say that there can be an interview for all the positions that can be assessed by the institution and approved by the AACC regarding the safety of human life. The wording "positions relating to the safety of human life" is so general and legal that it is not defined, which embodys clear subjectivity. This means that this provision can interview the back door and several categories of staff other than specialist scientific staff. It means that bias gives the opportunity to interview and that can also be a rule. We have asked you to list in detail the positions on the safety of human life and not, for example, to know in crystal terms, with crystal clearness what we are voting on, why we are voting on it and exactly what you are saying about it. We are calling again, Minister. Also, with regard to the gravity rate of the interview...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u48	My colleague, would you just allow me one clarification? Let me say that we have abolished, with the legal systems that we have made this wording, the security issues, it has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u49	No, Minister. You have kept, but I will tell you immediately below what you have kept. You consulted the Secretary-General, but with regard to the special cases where you can put exceptional provisions, you have maintained it because you have explicitly not removed it, as we have tabled to you in our own position. And please look at it, Minister, and we will come back to what I'm telling you. Please take a look at this because you obviously did not see it in the article in question. You were not at the reading at that time. Let me continue by saying that you are raising the members of the AACC from twenty-eight to thirty-five in the explanatory statement, which is, anyway, a text on which one is based to see what the intentions are. What are the intentions for which they are growing? The matter is increasing, you say, the ASA. You know, the bad languages - which I told you at first - say that this is a government weapon, the relative political struggle, since the selection of the members of the IASC is made by the Conference of Presidents with majorities which are formed and in ways which are inexcusable politically and certainly in no way transparent. Also, an institution consisting of thirty-five members is very difficult to meet in plenary session. I would remind you that the relevant SAAP in Britain has been made up of eleven consultants in a country with a population of sixty-five million, and that has been in place since 1855. Furthermore, this, Minister, which we stressed yesterday and today we want to tell you again is that for us, the AACC is a Authority that must be safeguarded at all times. As far as the provisions - we have listed them in detail, and we have tabled the relevant - in all cases we dare suspect that the AACC is being used as credit ratings and that its validity is at stake by being compelled to take part in evaluation committees to which it does not have the majority, then that is what we are absolutely against and against. Because you realise that this poses enormous risks to the validity of this independent authority itself, which must go through with documentation but also with strengthening, improving and not undermining it through such methods. What I would also like to say at a general level is that for the formal criteria, which you have brought individual legislative improvements, you will also hear them from other speakers. Degradation of the academic criteria you have attempted, bringing this bill to the whole selection system, is obviously incorrect from a value-added perspective, as the search for suitability requires that formal qualifications should be waived against essential competences, but without justifying the effective marginalisation of academic qualifications. The real nullification of formal qualifications in any case is not compatible with the general attitude, but with the education and the way in which we ourselves, the political system, have trained Greek citizens, to accumulate formal qualifications, standard criteria, as we say in the competitions, and they actually do not exist. Of course, your Government has taken a step in this, not towards the future, toward the past: It has abolished the obligation to have a degree, for example, to be a partner or minister director, as it has been abolished as an obligation to be responsible for the NSA. These are in your life and in your days! As far as the measurement of experience is concerned, Mr Minister, we have discussed it in committee as well - the recognition of postgraduate and doctoral diplomas - we have already submitted our proposal for how they should be equally distributed, but at the same time fair and proportionately how we would never have the risk of creating inequality within the competitions themselves, without, of course, considering that this is your purpose. But that can happen. And a comment, Mr President, I wanted to make. Your legislative improvement to add molecules to knowledge of foreign languages and experience is something positive, Minister. But beware of what is going on: It is so little the molecules you finally give for foreign languages and experience that they will not finally make a difference again, because moleculosis with five units and two postgraduate units, extremely low compared to the hundreds that someone can receive from the written examination - we have already told you - that means, for example, that someone with five years experience will have the same molecules as someone who has a relevant doctorate, but has no experience. In conclusion, I would like to point out that you have been presented with valuable thoughts by the institutions, such as the ESDP, as regards at least horizontal non-participation in positions in which they consider themselves to be able to participate, as with presumptions and examples, as by CSP workers, such as those of teachers who are asking for what they will become in relation to public tenders, and when the opportunity will be given to undivided and as in a number of others, which I will distinguish between these Citizens' CouncU, who strikes you at the risk and says 'catch up, because for all of them' - Minister, I repeat as approved legal and with this perspective to see - 'we should be extremely careful, because there is a risk that the institution itself will be undermined'. The central competition committee should, Minister, be majority members of the AACC.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u50	All right. Finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u51	That is what we have said and we are talking about again. We also consider it absolutely unacceptable that there should be a choice of staff from the provisional tables and until they are finalised. We cannot accept this at all, because under no circumstances can it guarantee that it will be done through procedures of dignity and transparency.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u52	Please, please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u53	Yes, Mr. President. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the reform requires boldness. With political costs, it is an internal force of each party, which may or may not have it. He wants internal force to pull the system forward, which he doesn't usually want to follow and move, either because he's afraid of change or because change doesn't suit it. The reform requires vision, open and distant horizons, prospects and strategic goals that they see decades ahead. On the other hand, the takalisian calculations - how many of them fit here, how many more, how many more, we will settle the interviews and how we will satisfy the political clientele, how we "walked" the policies - cannot be taken into account for the new Greece. It is a past that should be forgotten by all those involved and we should really move forward. This is why the 'car' does not slash out of the mud and does not go any further. He stays there, stuck in the mud, and his wheel is still in the air, without any prospect. Ladies and gentlemen, it reminds me of Achilles' mastery painting in the homonymous palace of Corfu, which was painted by the famous Austrian painter and which rumour says that when he found that all the painting was traffic, the wheel was still alive, he killed himself. It's a glorious ending! You will tell me: 'Fortunately, it is about art and not politics'. Or is it also a matter of politics? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u55	Mr President, may I have a clarification?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u56	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u57	I would like to make a clarification, not all, of a placement so that legal misunderstandings are not created. The connection of human safety to the interview was in three provisions. There was in paragraph 2 of Article 10, there was in paragraph 4 of Article 23 and there was in paragraph 8 of Article 27. Those paragraphs and three have been deleted. There is only a reference not related to the interview - no more interview - to Article 39(2), which now concerns employment for staff and the conditions for which special experience may be taken into account. There is now a report that is maintained. And that will be maintained for obvious reasons. So I want to tell you that on this issue - I say this to have consulted on the legal part - we are fine. The rest we'll talk about.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u59	Mr President, just a word. It's about you, too. Not on the substance. I would just like to inform you - the Minister has just been informed by Mr Zachariadis - that there are no legislative changes that have been made or incorporated into us and at our disposal...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u60	In any case, during it will bring...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u61	We have started Parliament and we do not know what the changes have been made at the moment. What's he gonna say, "Anyway"? How do you get past it? All these changes must come here as soon as possible, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u62	Let the rapporteurs and the special speakers finish and then the Minister will take the floor to testify and give you the opportunity to reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u63	But the rapporteurs also speak...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u64	Mr President, the report should be distributed to Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u65	Aren't we going to respond, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u66	The special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Manolis Syntakis, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Mr President. Happy birthday! Have a good year, health! The Government, under the false title ‘Modernisation of the system of recruitment in the public sector and strengthening the AACC’, attempts artificially to convince the workers that it thereby consolidates transparency, dignity and objectivity in the recruitment system. It simply presents it as a technocratic process, just to be lost in the impartiality of proclamations and to blur his classic sign. This is a bill dealing with modernising the public sector, with the nature, role and mission of the urban state. Often - densely the New Democracy and other parties, of course, refer to a more effective state. This state, however, can only serve capitalist growth, and indeed, in such crisis situations, waiting for a recovery when it comes. They are prolific, moral, indestructible urban state or state for all tastes. Philolian state or neutral state with monopolies, but also the bourgeois order in power, neither historically nor will there be. If power is not changed, if this system is not overturned, that is, if the economy does not go into the hands of the people, if it does not move in line with human needs, there will be no philosophical state. The only philosophical state that the people can actually conquer is the socialist state that says the Communist Party of Greece. More effective urban state means more classic, that is, more favourable to the ruling class and even more anti-linguistic and more authoritarian to workers. In such a state and in these reforms, New Democracy and SYRIZA agree both with the Change Movement and with all the other parties that support the system. The government is mocking and disorientating. At the same time as following a policy of zero appointments and the cuts in the 2021 state payroll budget clearly state that no appointments will be made, it brings this bill on how it will be appointed. The government is taking the thread from where the SYRIZA government left it under the laws of Vernardakis and Katrugalos. It attempts a number of institutional changes to organise and operate more effectively the urban state, with the appropriate adjustments to the state mechanism, by generalising the elastic forms of employment, persevering the hostage of workers with fixed-term contracts, satisfying and shielding the competitiveness and profitability of business groups in deep recession, exacerbating the contradictions of the capitalist system and escalating the imperialist competitions that run in our region and in general. From this point of view, SYRIZA has a huge responsibility for such a bill. He opened the New Democracy's'mountain' for even more aggressive anti-population policy and for reactive changes in public policy. That is why the SYRIZA rapporteur has still not said anything about the bill. That is why SYRIZA is attempting today to throw the "ball in the cradle", raising the tones of a classic hypocritical, misleading and appalling cockfighting to hide his agreement on substance with the draft law. It is a real hindrance to say that it is voting against at first, but it is voting on the articles, because it considers them to be important. With the draft law, the government says it strengthens the AAP. The APA, ladies and gentlemen, is surrounded by the "photophane" of the Independent Authority by all. New Democracy, SYRIZA, PASOK. And that, because such an approach has facilitated all governments over time. The APA is strictly in the predefined framework and guidelines defined in the institutional framework of the respective government and in substance operates as part of the State mechanism. That is why it is not subject to governmental control - after all, it is unnecessary - to judicial and parliamentary scrutiny, which, on the one hand, you cannot avoid, on the other hand, on the basis of the existing legislative framework, does not create any problem for you. The APA is not an Independent Authority but it is deeply dependent on anti-grass policies not only of governments but also of supranational organisations. In fact, Article 3 of the draft law states that, in the context of its mission, the AACC implements investigations, actions, programmes of nationalities, of the European Union or of other supranational organisations. The APA is charged with a role of a poster, in practice, to overthrow industrial relations, to ban the conversion of contracts into an indefinite period, on the basis of the constitutional ban, the well-known article 103 of the Constitution, which together voted in the government of SYRIZA, SYRIZA, New Democracy, Change Movement and refused to adopt, with the exception of the Communist Party of Greece, a related amendment, as well as the letter tabled by the 50 federations and unions of the public. Therefore, the risk and neutrality of this draft law are given to workers. It is a reform that leads to an absolute control of the planning of permanent jobs in the public sector, based on the objectives and limitations set by the large capital. The merits of democracy, around and on behalf of it, are without substance and to deceive the workers. The bill has nothing to do with merit. On the contrary, yes. Besides, merit and interview are not compromised, they cannot go together. The recruitment criteria established by the bill with the pan-Hellenic competition and the interview or, "structured interview" - Manolios changed and put his clothes in different ways - are essentially criteria to exclude some. It extends the "cutter" of the so-called interview almost throughout the public sector, while until now it was only in the selection of executives. The government builds not a rule of law and excellence as it claims, but social injustice and virtues. The aims and content of the bill are clear: henceforth those who have yellow paper in the state mechanism will not be recruited and unwanted. This bill essentially refers to laws by Member States of the European Union which prohibit work for civil servants brought about by radical ideas. I remind you of the Beruffsverbot law in West Germany in 1956, when the Communist Party was outlawed and banned from working as civil servants, teachers and other professions. Thousands of leftists have lost their jobs or have never been able to work in 'prohibited professions'. This disgraceful regime has so far not changed dramatically. There has been so far, on the grounds of'substantiated anti-constitutional activities'. Indeed, this policy from a point of view was also launched by social democrats, who have been applying it up until now to trade unions from members of the European Union who control it. If a member or executive declares a communist identity automatically deleted because the statute prohibits the participation of the subversives. That is why the left trade unions never declare a party status, which is - I repeat - to this day. So this bill is reactionary, it's classic and dangerous and we invite you to withdraw it here and now. That also requires the trade union movement. It is, in fact, a process of subjective and non-objective nature and criteria, so that those who do not comply with the suggestions and requirements of the status quo are excluded from the public sector. And in order to achieve this objective, degradation with this draft law for the sake of structured interview extends to formal qualifications, to the degree, to the master's degree, to the doctorate, since these are now considered only to be an increase, and even to low-qualification factors, which will be collected by the person concerned from the Greek competition. As regards the rating of candidates, 50% is defined as the weight factor for the examination of knowledge and 50% for the skill test, thus degrading the gravity of knowledge against skills. And reluctantly, without hesitation and with irrational theories in here, there are opinions that skills are of far greater value and weight than the degree, master and doctorate. Shame on you! The legislator you brought, Minister, does not change the philosophy of the bill to anything. On the contrary, I'd say they're making it worse. You rename the interview procedure to a structured interview. But what does a structured interview mean? In practice it means a bank of issues to be designated by the government. Where, then, is the inconsistency of the process that you are pricking us? Bring a carabinato diabetic recruitment system. In fact, instead of the personality test, which was withdrawn - initially this - after the well-known outcry, you extend the structured interview beyond the selection of management and special scientific staff, i.e. at the positions - keys to the state mechanism. It also extends the structured interview to workers on duty. You can remove it, based on the legal systems, from the civil servants associated with the safety of human life, following the pressure and outcry you have received, but you are looking for the future. An interview whose context and content encloses from acceptance of the Constitution, legality, and even crisis management, whether it participates in strikes, in occupations of public buildings, schools, illegal public meetings, the behaviour of the civil servant inside and outside the service and much more. And that is why the New Democracy is not entitled to speak of dignity, like SYRIZA, who maintained the existing legal framework for the selection of officials in the public sector. The weight of the individual interview for the special scientific staff is 35%, while for them, the interview is up to a thousand two hundred molecules when the PhD is premiumd with five hundred molecules! In other words, we are dealing with a bill that moves from 'cutter' to 'cutter' and from 'photograph' to 'photograph'. So worthy! Even in the provisions on the planning of disabled people, on the basis of formal qualifications and identities, the criteria for selecting and mobilising disabled persons reveals the government's hypocrisy when it not only puts an obstacle to the right to work for disabled persons, the disability rates or the pre-service criterion, but also the fact that job notices have been stopped. Unemployment is afflicting people with disabilities much more, considering them as humans of a lower god. As hypocrisy has been all the legislation to date, as has SYRIZA the Law on equal treatment, which has never been applied to recruitment rates. Ladies and gentlemen, in the fair demands put forward at the forefront, the fight of all health workers also includes the necessary simulation of all contractors. At the moment contractors in the public health system are sixteen thousand, i.e. about 30% of all workers. This rate is constantly increasing with regard to officials. If we calculate pensions, the empty organic positions are close to thirty thousand. Needs are growing at the same time as you, as SYRIZA did, deny permanent recruitment. What is being observed in tourism with the fourteen different flexibility contracts as a point is also the case in the public health system: Workers with fixed-term contracts, subsidiary COVID, OAEDS, subsidiarys who were hired prior to COVID, EAFRD contractors, apprenticeships, contractors, and lately the qualified nurses. The fragmentation and social automation cultivated by governments, each time extending to a different share of workers, are seeking to bring one employee to another. The government, with a bill that passed, gave a year of extension, but with some "priced letters" on which hospital governors are pressing for subsidiary food, care, cleanliness, after being given the option to move on if they want contractors. The examples are too much in the hospitals in the country. This is all part of the policy that hospitals want to operate on private economic criteria as enterprises where employees' pay will be part of their mess or profit. All these contract workers are invited without specialisation to respond to the increased needs and as soon as they have experience, they are brought to dismissal. The New Democracy, SYRIZA, the Change Movement, over time follow the same policy that is central to the European Union. SYRIZA, even now, insists on the molecules of these workers through AAP, while it has so far been shown that most of them are being made redundant. If you think that we are wrong in the criticism we are making and in order not to provoke us that we have referred everything to the Monday presidencies, you have been given the opportunity to make an amendment to the amendment we tabled before the holidays and rejected it, and it concerned the immediate permanentisation of the four thousand workers with the OAED programme in the public health system, who have been working unresolvely for four years and have been covering permanent and lasting needs in the public health sector. Ladies and gentlemen, the Communist Party of Greece is fighting in favour of an objective and measurable selection system, within the framework of a state administration, which will be the main task of serving growth to the benefit of the people and thus modern popular rights. Every man, every young man, whether he has a high school graduation certificate or a professional school, has either finished TEIs or TEIs, has either done a postgraduate or a PhD, is entitled to a job, a permanent job with a good wage. So this position starts with the JRC. We reject what they say 'First we will verify whether the worker has competence and then enters a job'. It's the pretext to justify adoration. Who does not remember the Minister of Government who said that the unemployed person who does not know how to apply to the OAED is responsible for unemployment? So the right to work belongs to everyone. The one who's lazy, the one who doesn't want to work, won't go looking for a job. There is no unemployment in Greece. There is no deliberate unemployment. It's purely political. In this respect, we do not accept the so-called merits. Because this is how it is justified: unemployment is being hidden and it appears that work is a matter of opportunity, of being able, of having skills, of being qualified to get a job. And there is the question that unemployment is social, political and not individual. Public social services, ladies and gentlemen, suck. They're subordinated and decommissioned. The world is afflicted by the fact that it is the government that is consciously downgrading them and does not cover the gaps that exist in them by appointments. The JRC will not fall into the trap of either moleculosis or haggling and other proposals made by SYRIZA, KINAL or other parties. We will not formulate an opinion like the opinion of the New Democracy and the other parties that the good and worthy are hired and the unworthy are left out. Even with any moleculosis, with an innumerable list of subjective criteria, it is certain that the vast majority of contractors will remain without simulation and that their hostage will continue. Today, therefore, the issue is new jobs, well paid, with full-time pension rights, in new productive sectors based on modern and increasingly popular needs. To reduce the working time, from eight hours to seven and six for all, rather than what you are trying to do, the eight-hour abolition, has already been abolished - and to bring it into the tenth hour and, in fact, with unpaid overtime. To reduce the retirement threshold to 60 years for men and fifty-five for women. And when we say reduced working hours, we do not mean parttime. When in 1886, the workers gave their lives for the eighth hour, tell me that it is a luxury today to have six hours' work and seven hours' work, to have five days and when the productivity of work has gone up? We are therefore not with workers because of reasons of gratitude, but because both scientific analysis and monitoring developments, but also how we see labour justice, we can say yes, they can all have jobs, at good wages and free time. It can also be done and it can be fully combined with the development of the country and of the economy. The JRC is asking the government to withdraw this abortion, even at the last minute. If it does not, we are obviously voting against, we denounce it and call on the private and public sector workers to put themselves in battle on a common front. In their hand is to overcome the false dilemmas, fear and threats with which the other parties, New Democracy, SYRIZA, are trying to put them in the name of capitalist development. Finally, Mr President, with regard to the Ministerial Amendment - and to conclude with this - the extension of the deadline for the redefinition of the cases of the Katseli Act, which expires on 15 January, and the extension up to 31-1-2021, is a fact, Mr President, that thirty-five thousand first-haul borrowers are at risk if this extension is not granted. We will say 'yes', but we believe that this extension of government is a mockery. It is a 15-day extension, when the platform itself has serious operational problems, when public services - and I refer to a Land register, to the DUs, to the mortgage office - are still working, even banks are failing, when all legal and judicial deadlines have been suspended and the only exceptions are those of overdue households. So we consider this amendment to be an absolute mockery. Give the opportunity in a reasonable time - and this time can be, up to a six-month, seven, eight months, one year - to allow workers to prepare for redefinition applications. We have also tabled an amendment, Mr President, as a Communist Party of Greece for the inclusion of the rejected because of misguided notices of 2019 and 2020 in the provisional and final evaluation tables of the AACC. We also call on the others to support this amendment and the Ministry to accept it. A further Member of our parliamentary group will be placed in detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u68	Thank you too, Mr. Synchronous. Mr. Konstantinos Hetas, special speaker of the Greek Solution, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Mr President. Have a good year for everyone and me. Minister, you know the Greeks in our DNA, we have a thousand good ones. We have features, and I think you know that too, which distinguish us from other peoples. It's some specific features. We have, however, in our genetic code and two - three flaws - sluts - I will say them - which unfortunately follow us for years. Let's talk a little bit about anxiety, because it's a huge, very big cancer in Greece. There are too many examples of incompetent people and people of unworthy confidence. We have 'libraries'. We've got a lot of them. And because we are talking today about recruitment, about public service, these 'publishers' have rooted, you know, Minister, very deeply in public life. And if anxiety, as I say, is the slogan of Greece, the slogan is the word rousfetti. I'll explain it to you in a little while. Innumerable, as we were saying in the army, "proofs", we were all looking for a "barba in Koroni", to enchant, to make the child comfortable and to go by saying. And what do you think might be the future for a country - I honestly ask you, as a political being I ask you - with a vicious political system? What can be the future of this country when a political system is vicious and is established in ruffles, families, favors, friendships and saying? You don't believe me? Listen. I told the committee that today I will come with some information. I told Mr. Theodorikos. Why are they gone, Mr Voridis - why do I see crocodile tears, pretextically, we all cry here - the six hundred thousand Greeks? Do you know why they left? Why did our kids leave? Was that the easy solution? Oh, no. Heart pain is gone. They left homes, left families, left home and left home. Do you know why they left? Do you think the reasons are economic? Minister, the reasons are not economical. They're not economical! The first and main cause - I will give you the research that he carried out on Brain Drain, the 'ICAP Group' in 2018 - is the adequacy of 48%, Mr. Ignorance! We live in this country. The second cause is the economic crisis with 38% and third cause is the prospects for growth. I'll put it all together at the end for the Minutes. And if this research is really a fist in the stomach, and it must be the political system, especially the parties that have been ruling the country for the last forty years to deal with it, there is another investigation coming from KAPA RESEARCH - Mr Theodorikos, you know from research - for the new generation - hear, Mr Voridis - 'Why did young people leave abroad'. Axisia 40%, Greek culture 28%, corruption 33%. Second card, 'Cause of the Crisis': Corruption in public 80%. Mr. Voridis, you are a Minister of Interior now. Corruption in public 80%! Political governments after 56% of the population, and that concerns all of you. You're the ones who ruled. Other answer: "What does Greek state mean." They should say beautiful things about the Greek state. Corruption 79%. This is the image Greeks have for the Greek state. And we're talking here today about the AAP and the recruitments? Corruption, adequacy, rosphetti and waste of money. ‘KAPA RESEARCH’. It's not a Greek solution. I'll put it down for the Minutes at the end of my speech here today. Aren't you concerned, Minister? You're a young man not a politician, but at the Ministry. That's what you need to see. This is the gangrene, this is the abscess you have to break. That's the public, the monster. Can I tell you something? I came prepared to hear five things today. Civil servants' wage bill in Greece from 2016 to 2022: I will not say it this year, year. The payroll of civil servants in 2016 was 15.8 billion, 2020 was 18 billion and 2021 is 18.2 billion. I'll testify the relevant table. That is not our evidence. And because I'm listening to these stunned heels, the real problems are what I told you right now. And you're doing it here? Fighting who made the fewest mistakes, who screwed them more or less. And now SYRIZA speaks of poster in New Democracy or New Democracy in the Change Movement - PASOK or PASOK to you two for poster employees. Mr. Theodorikos, the three thousand touch the post-mortem employees. Two thousand seven hundred thirty-nine on SYRIZA, two thousand eight hundred seventeen in May 2020, right now. Seven-year-old record! And we're talking about impeccable procedures at the AAP when we're at the forefront of anyone who speaks Greek? These are the post-mortem employees. There's the painting. It's the truth of the numbers. I'll testify for the Minutes. Look at all this. Take the Minutes. That's why we're filing them. We also submit them for historical reasons, as well as for viewing them. Let's go now and talk about the public famine. The truth is, Minister, that we expected from a new Minister for the Interior - and I personally expected it - in the committee the other day to give us your mark. You have now taken up this very important and critical ministry. We were waiting for you to give us your mark about the actions you are going to take, to talk about the substantial upgrading of public services, to give us an image, Minister, for the public administration, about the number of civil servants we do not know how many are, about the staffing problems that exist in neural services, hospitals, tax authorities, ECA. That's what we've been waiting for. What did you do to the committee the other day in your debut? You personally disappointed us. Why? For you were consumed, Minister, in cowardice with SYRIZA for who has more posters, and as a new Minister of Interior you should give the signal of the next day, the plan you have. However, you are going to these constituencies, to satisfy your party audience, to applaud you and to be indifferent to the national interest. You only care about party interest. That's what you're interested in, and that's the reality as hard as it is. Listen to something: society is boiling. Unemployment is high. Insecurity is launching. The market is slowing down. I'm not saying news. We all know. The Greek who is hungry, Minister, is hungry! - who has destroyed his business, who has seen his child leave to see you, who are no different from each other - and I mean the New Democracy, the Government - fighting about who has made less of a sea. Because this image of the public - I told you and the committee - this monster, Franckenstein, is your creation. You're the one who's been running our homeland for 50 years now. And you're coming to save what you did? Sounds like a little oxymobile. We're going to live tragic situations in a while. And we're talking about the public today. We don't even know - I said it before - how many civil servants we have. The ultimate chaos! Third world situations really! And now we're going to S.H.I.E.L.D... Communication trick. And I'll tell you why. You say that we are going to S.A. - Mr. Theodorikos, so you inspired it and worked it out a year, the new Minister will sign it - to tell us 'the democracy in public administration'. I have four, five questions, and if you are kind, Minister, I would like you to reply to me as Government and as Minister, those questions raised by the Greek Solution today. How honest, really are - we want to believe in the good intentions you have - on the one hand to legislate on good legislation - that is what you want to do - and on the other hand, to bring actions - on the other hand, invoking the pandemic, COVID, the extreme situations - of legislation, untrue amendments -'sentences' in the middle of the night just before Parliament closes down on Christmas, to pass your own provisions? How honest is that? How sincerely are you, Mr Vorides, when on the one hand you are legislating written competitions, as you say, you are stumbling up excellence, you are stumbling up sovereignty, and on the other hand, you have made a rule - rule - no exception - by way of derogation from the existing provisions? How much do you support deservedness when you legislate and predict clearly hundreds of non-ACP recruitments, when you are being destroyed, Minister, fixed-term contracts, renew them again and again to take advantage of the situations and have them blocked and your clients to get votes when you are nominated everywhere, even for posted officials' posts in the public service? Can I ask you something more? After all I've described, how many places do the ASPI finally have left for the desert to go to give tests to get into the public with its value? Any places left? Can I say something else, Minister? Do you have eight hundred molecules in the individual interview for the employees and the doctorate with five hundred molecules? I mean, the man who studied, who made his doctorate, who has an arsenal to get out in society to work, will testify these papers, get five hundred molecules, and because I'm good-looking in the blah, I'm gonna get eight hundred molecules in the interview. How is that possible? I want to understand it. Listen, we're not vertically opposed to the interview. There are certain positions for which the potential employee has to go through an interview, see his mentality, whether he has it or doesn't have it, if he can command etc. But not eight hundred and five hundred. Let's go a little now to the independent authorities. Because the bill aims, according to its title, to strengthen the AAP, we have said it and we will always call it. What is happening in Greece with the independent authorities is nowhere else. It's unbelievable! Thirty-two independent authorities. Five independent authorities are provided, Minister, by the Constitution. We have thirty-two. Why should we have thirty-two? How necessary are these thirty-two independent authorities that we need to have here? If we were Switzerland, I'd tell the hell it should go, we have thirty and two independent authorities, we don't have a financial problem, it's all right! But now, with the situation in our country being so difficult and with our fellow citizens really suffocating? It's time to see the subject of the independent authorities in the face. That's it. We need to see this, we need to talk about this here. Six hundred million euros a year cost Greek citizens the independent authorities more than half a billion. And while what I'm describing is happening, what are you doing? You're raising the AAP members from twenty-eight to thirty-five. So it wasn't enough for the twenty-eight to make them thirty-five. You're going to tell me, "Come on, seven more people." Minister, 375,000 euros cost these people more than the General Accounting Office. The 375,000 euros are 10 MFs. Why should we give them to seven people the parade of the ADP? And then we're yelling that we don't have IDs. Why would they take that money? There is no state, is there no ministry to run this country? Do the independent authorities have to command it? What are the five constitutionally regulated principles? Let's take them. What about the other twenty-seven? [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] Let me tell you something, Minister. At the last meeting on the draft law debate in committee - to show you now how distorting the system is - you said... Mr Athanasios, I would like the Minister to hear me if it is easy, because I am making a statement. Thank you very much. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Hetas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Mr Voridis, did you say or did not say at the last meeting of the committee that by way of derogation 50 veterinarians from your old ministry, the Ministry of Rural Development, will they be recruited to deal with African plague? Is that true? Isn't that so?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u70	Before?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u71	Yeah, before.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u72	It's done.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u73	It's true. Yes, sir. Duration: 12 months. Right?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u74	I didn't just say it. I did.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u75	And you did. Yes, sir. And you said that four months before the veterinarians' contracts ended, you asked for staff to be made available, and so far the procedure has not been completed. In other words, you have not been reached and you say at the SAP: 'Children, we want another world'. And you said that there is a risk because there are health reasons, health reasons, biosecurity, there are compensation. Sickness is a serious matter. Yes, sir. Have these employees come from the ADP? Oh, no. So who are we talking about, guys? So, as a government, what have you been doing all this time? Yes, ASA is an independent authority. That's where I end up. But it's not uncontrolled. It is unacceptable that the Greek state, the Ministry of Rural Development, officials for health reasons important and that the AACC has not responded yet. So what does S.H.I.E.L.D. want to do? What are you, as a government, doing to get these procedures moving immediately? Listen, the role of the independent authorities must be reassessed by the House. They can't continue to work uncontrolledly and work whenever they want to. And again, let it go. There are other principles. I don't go to an ER now, because it's a lot of talk. Minister, what I described to you and I would like you to take note of them, because you are a serious politician, is the "father" you took as the Ministry of the Interior and you need to correct them. These are the problems. Do you want to solve them? You can solve them. Question. ‘No’ is the answer. Why don't you and anyone else solve them? Because, Minister, you are not interested in the next generations, you are interested in the next election. This is all your "burn", You don't care about the next generations. Next election is of interest to you. This is the big difference between you and the Greek Solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, too. May I, too, wish all my colleagues, be they in the Chamber or out of halloween, a good year, always in health, and everything else we will find! Ms. Fotini Bakadima has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u77	Thank you very much, Mr President. I wish we had a good and peaceful year too. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I think we can all agree that the quality and effectiveness of the public sector's staff, while strengthening transparency, dignity and objectivity, should be an objective and a matter for all of us. Indeed, the enlarged client state, the maintenance and reinforcement of which all governments have contributed, is a time-consuming phenomenon in our country and, believe me, not because it did not know, did not have the ability or the ability of each government to manage it. She had her ability. It did not, however, have the political will to break with its "clients" with its voters. He did not want to put an end to the practice of practicing the 'children' of each side as soon as she took power into her hands. The only thing is for us to see to it that the public and wider public sector are modernised and improved through incompetent procedures to ensure dignity and equal opportunities for candidates. Let's go now and see some parts of the draft law. In Article 2, which is the scope of this, we see a number of exceptions to recruitment. Some could reasonably be missing, such as staff hired by public undertakings or banks and their subsidiaries for employment in countries other than our own, where these companies have invested or invested, provided that the duration of the contract does not exceed five years. Article 3 increases the members who make up the ADP from twenty-four to thirty-five, adding two Vice-Presidents and nine advisors. We wonder if this enhanced board will be able to work, because the truth is that it's not flexible. Article 5, and position-fill planning. It is a programme that comes to a bill and, on the one hand, the special positioning profiles have not been completed in all services and, on the other, we would like to see - and we would like an answer to that today, Minister - what happens with the issue of mobility if it is affected by the bill after it was passed and, if so, how. Articles 6 and 13 amend the percentages of posts to be covered by our fellow citizens with disabilities, from third parties, multiples and relatives of disabled persons. I would ask you to look at the memorandum that we have received from the RESEA and the federation of threeteen to see their own comments, because you think that you are increasing rates - and you are actually raising them to a minimum from the previous law of SYRIZA - but unfortunately the federations of our fellow citizens have several objections and reservations. Articles 8 and 9 describe the Greek competition and its structure by examining knowledge and a process of skills and work efficiency, and it is intended to be such that people with disabilities can also take part in it easily. Article 11 stipulates that either the tendering procedure is to be decided by the central tendering committee or the subjects and all other matters involved. Article 12, and increments based on formal qualifications, i.e. doctoral diploma holders, self-certificate graduates of annual education and integrated masters. Let me say that these are increments that are coming to strengthen our grief for the total deterioration and devaluation of academic and objective qualifications and foreign languages. The legislators you're suggesting somewhere are not enough to fill this gap. Positively we see the part of the tracking ups, as it is important to serve the services throughout the country and incentives should be given to keep our fellow citizens in their homes or to return to them if they so wish. Article 16 gives a description of the procedure for the notice of posts to be filled. Article 18 concerns the submission of requests for participation. Here we think that for many cases the ten-day deadline will prove extremely difficult to follow, so we would ask you to consider the possibility of enlargement. In any case, whether an extension is given to the deadline for submission or not, it should be done as far as possible to speed up the digitisation of all procedures so that candidates can quickly collect all the necessary documents but also our fellow citizens with disabilities not trouble between services but be able to quickly and easily prepare their candidacy file. In addition, we would like some information and clarification on the anticipated misconduct. If there are thoughts about the amount to which it varies, whether it will be common to all positions, if you have the amount in mind, what will that be, if not, whether it differs depending on the candidate's category, whether it is IP, PP or TE or whether it differs depending on the position or the body, i.e. the absorption service. In Article 19, we also have a reference to a maximum age. We would like to know what this will be, whether it is horizontal or, on a case-by-case basis, and if you think it might lead to the exclusion of candidates and a different attitude towards the citizens who want to compete, try to understand a position in the public. In Article 27, entitled "Organisation for the full-scale written tender", we consider that provision should be made for participation in the Committee of Representatives of the National Centre for Public Administration and Administration as part of its mission is vocational training, training and training of the staff of central and regional administration and the first and second degree selfgovernment. Ladies and gentlemen, it would be very important, indeed, to discuss - and we should have this debate at some point - what kind of public we want and how to staff this, if there was indeed, but also how to implement the conclusions of the debate. Unfortunately, none of the things that have managed power in our country since the republic has so far shown, as I said at the outset, the will to break with the client state, which all of the parties have raised, created, taken care and gigantic. Many opinions were exchanged at committee meetings which, let us be honest, would only be worthy in one case, if tomorrow morning, once this bill was passed, all Greek citizens would wake up in amnesia. And this is because only in this way could all the citizens of the country forget the green, blue, green red, forgive me, but I cannot find a more suitable color to describe the appointments and settlements of systolic color. All of you, ladies and gentlemen of the three parties, have made sure that you add your own port to the public body, your own voters, your own friends, your own friends and all of a sudden we have seen everyone swing the finger in the New Democracy for the posters. First of all, I would like to say that the present government, the New Democracy, has exceeded every limit. It has arranged with a large number of zeal that either failed to elect MPs or were asked to withdraw their candidacy for the sake of other elite officials, who have seen general secretaries, hospital governors, and even presidents of municipal libraries. They are executives whose positions the current Minister for the Interior has publicly justified, considering that it is some way to appoint their own and not those who would be worthy of these positions. And, indeed, it is expected, considering the practice that you have been implementing up to now. But let me say that moving the finger of KINAL in the New Democracy on the subject of fugitives is causing and it's a little funny. Because, if you wish, ladies and gentlemen of KINAL, we can open up the debate on posters at ministerial offices, we can do so, we can also take the debate to forced-trained posters who were at PASOK's first-class officials and former government ministers. We can have the conversation. If you think it's of interest to you, of course we're here. But I would suggest that if you want to do something better, try to salvage what is saved by your political dignity and not go through with such petitions. On the other hand, SYRIZA's colleagues also reacted and it would be worth seeing the status of retiring and scientific associates of their own party when they were government, whether they were ministers, MPs or other members. Indeed, such a debate would lead, I think, to the fertile conclusions of both us and the Greek people. As I said at the outset, the New Democracy has been keeping the sceptres of the shelling and settling, not only in poster positions and partners, but also in appointments to the private and public body. Let her be quiet, she can't take any of these sceptres away from her. At the second reading of the bill, and I will close with that in a moment, Mr President, we have heard the majority speaker mention the importance of skills towards academic qualifications. You really surprised me. I would never expect an MEP from the beginning who shares and swears in the name of excellence to hear that skills are preferable. Of course, let us be honest with each other and with the eyes of the citizens who might be watching us or watching us on a repetition. If we consider a little how you, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, excellence in your mind and how you approach it, I can imagine how you would approach the question of skill. Something tells me that obviously in your mind skill is voting New Democracy. We have also heard the Minister mention - and disprove me if I am wrong, Minister - that the main problem is how to operate and how the notices are often delayed so that there are major gaps in the services of all the ministries. A characteristic example that has been mentioned is the 50 veterinarians for the recruitment of whom, on the second year, four months before the end of their term of office, were addressed to the AACC and, unfortunately, the tender has not yet been completed. I will agree with you, Minister. If we look at the current situation, we will see that many notices and many competitions are incomplete and the posts have not been paid even though successful tables have been drawn up. But who is to blame for these delays? Is it because of the parties that have taken over the country's rule from the republic to date, namely New Democracy, PASOK, SYRIZA? Is it possible today to hear a Minister of the New Democracy - and is it not a new official, this minister, to have a period of grace, is a minister with history, a history-based executive in the New Democracy - to say that it is the fault of how it works? Who set him up, who legislated him this way of operation? Did Mera25 do it? Not all of you, ladies and gentlemen, have done so. You legislated, you brought the country into the situation that you brought with the ballot of voters and the regularity of your own children. And obviously the AACC is an independent authority, but the inadequacy of the administration is your creation. That is why citizens have lost all confidence in the state, which is why they are troubled every day when they go to a public service to serve them. I would ask you whether you, as citizens, ladies and gentlemen, have tried to serve in a public service. I imagine you've had many years to do it, and you may have forgotten about the suffering our fellow citizens experience every day. Believe me, it's great! In conclusion, Minister, your resignation has proved to be a pretext to legislate on communication and pretext simply to do so and vote on laws that it itself is being circumvented. The same usefulness and the same future will have this bill. And, judging by your course, history and statements, you confirm the fear that the law will remain a blank letter and a simple publication in the Official Journal of the Government. I told you, by closing the committee yesterday, that you cannot, Minister, capitalise on the good news of the bill. It's not your cove. But you can do - and you will, I'm sure - everything that goes through your hand to circumvent it and trespass it every day. The truth is, personally, you know, I wasn't surprised by your presence the other day for a simple reason, because I wasn't expecting anything else. I didn't expect anything new or any great idea. I didn't expect you to renounce your political DNA and talk about dignity and transparency. Mera25 - we say it and we will say it again - will not be a participant in your efforts and will not give you a white cheque. You will always find us in front of you in every effort, every effort at the expense of citizens, transparency and dignity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, too. The circle of speeches of the rapporteurs and the special speakers has been completed and we enter the circle of Members of Parliament with a natural presence. I call on the Member of the New Democracy MP, Panagiotis Theodorikos. Here, Mr. Theodorikos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u79	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, after wishing for a good year to all and all, I would like to say that we are debating in Parliament today the bill that strengthens democracy in the public recruitment system, strengthens and enhances the role of the ADP in the management of the public sector. I welcome from the outset, because Mr Vorides, as a new Minister for the Interior, has without delay pushed this bill forward on the basis of the predefined timetable. This is, of course, a decisive change, a reform in practice. And since there has been a whole debate on the term, let me say that in Greece today's'reform' is still to implement the logic of self-evident. Obviously, that's what we're talking about. As part of the state reform, the Prime Minister of the country Kyriakos Mitsotakis has also described it as a flagrant reform. It was certainly central to the government's planning for this period and is implemented within this margin. It is a critical link in the chain of important changes and reforms that we have made this year and a half in the Ministry of Interior. I would briefly remind you of the vote of the Greeks abroad, which is also a reform of self-evidentity. It's a half-century history. I am sorry to say this, but the Civic Opposition remains appalling about this reform, which I would remind you of doing what it could to prevent it from happening.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u80	After we voted, Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u81	The reality, ladies and gentlemen, is that you voted for it when you found that the New Democracy, the Change Movement, the Greek Solution and the Communist Party of Greece had formed a regulation that they would have voted against, would have exceeded the double votes and therefore would have been implemented. You were obliged to do it. In any case - because that is the truth and the reality - what is of value today is to implement this regulation. The Ministry of Interior has done all the work required. I think the new Minister for the Interior has already been informed. The Greek information campaign will be launched immediately. We have an obligation in those countries where there are even forty enthusiasms who will say to the electronic platform that they will vote from the country in which they are located, to create elections. So the Ministry of Interior in this area has a huge job to do. I believe that all parties should also contribute to the implementation of the campaign. It is absolutely certain that this on the part of the Government and the Ministry of Interior will be done in terms of absolute transparency and efficiency. It is time that we unite the Greeks all over the earth and the Civic Opposition is preferable, even now, to stop the policy of artificial division even in this matter. Interventions on the governance of local government, the possibility of co-operation with the private sector in its services, the important programme for undeclared square measures which protected three million Greek households from fees and a fine of 1.5 billion euros. This is the largest private debt exemption that has existed in Greek history. Also, he joined the municipalities and the households in order. In this way, relationships of confidence between the state and the citizens have been created, and 150 million euros have been provided for on an annual basis. We have created the "ITIS TRIBIS" programme, a programme with at least EUR 2.5 billion guaranteed for municipalities and regions for the implementation of projects for the development, safety and improvement of the quality of life of citizens. This is the first time that local government has been fully involved in the development of this programme by participating in the committee which assesses the projects both by the CEDEFOP and by the Greek Committee of Regions. Of course, all these innovation projects are implemented by self-government itself and must be implemented in terms of absolute transparency and legality. In the very difficult pandemic conditions we have made a decisive contribution to the digital reform of the state and self-government, to the efficient management of public sector human resources, and we have promoted the state's colonisation, especially by implementing the institution of the secretarial services. The process of preparing the law we are debating today began just a year ago. They participated in this. A very substantial dialogue was held with social and scientific bodies, representatives of the new generation, with previous ministers who served in this position, with representatives of the parties. The committee chaired by Mr Lascaratos met seventeen times and informally much more and worked hundreds of hours to prepare this bill. I would like to thank all the members of the committee for their cooperation with the Ministry of the Interior and for the great work they have done. In particular, I would like to thank the Secretary-General of the Ministry of the Interior, Mr Charalamboyannis, who, on the part of the Ministry of Interior, has had the greatest burden of the process. This is one of the most worthy members of the state mechanism, regardless of ministries. It is known that, in the past, recruitment issues in the Greek public sector were dealt with in a positive and progressive manner by Law 2190, known as the Peponis Act, a pedestrian politician who left his print in the public life of the country for his morality and credibility. At that time, without a second word, this law was a very great reform, a step forward. It has, indeed, provided for the law since then - that is absolutely true - the possibility of written examinations for the introduction of workers into the public service. Since then, however, this has been applied a few times and Law 2190 has been amended thirty-seven times. So the reason we are now legislating is not to overthrow the modernist philosophy of that law but to make democracy compulsory in the process of electing workers for the public sector. And there is no better way for this than the introduction of the written invitation to tender in all cases. The aim is, in fact, to do the right man in the right place, twenty-five years later in the era of the fourth industrial revolution. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I need a little more time. I've never used more time in my parliamentary term, so I'll get a bonus total for today.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u82	You'll have some time, but not very important.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr President. I think we'll agree on the end. It is therefore imperative that these changes take place in the era of the fourth industrial revolution. It is a law of hope for the new generation, for the children who left the years of the crisis, because they did not believe that they could claim what they deserve, whether in the private sector or in the public sector. Now they can know that the Greek public will serve the best, the most. I believe that it is useful that Mr Voridis promotes a number of proposals concerning the work experience and mobilisation of the foreign language, taking into account the public debate that has taken place and the proposals of the anti-population and social actors parties. I would also like to emphasise the great debate that has taken place with the representatives of the threeteen, the polytexts and the organisations of the disabled, in order to find a golden section which, however, has as a clear position that the children of the third parties and the polytexts, will also have to take part in the tendering procedure and will have to have taken the basis set out in the law. All this demonstrates that the government has a firm direction - and it proves it in practice - to conduct a substantial dialogue and make a creative effort to achieve the maximum possible social convergence, especially in bills like this. The success of this reform of the law we are voting on today is related to the promotion in practice of digitisation in the AACC and its interoperability with the rest of the public sector. It is necessary to put an end to time-consuming bureaucratic procedures, which unfortunately is the norm. It is also necessary to continue the work of a model of public officials, so that the tasks and requirements of the post claimed by the citizens concerned are clear. These, together with the implementation of recruitment planning and the evaluation of civil servants, create a landscape for a much better efficiency in the public sector and should normally have universal acceptance. Ladies and gentlemen, the country continues to have a difficult time because of the coronary pandemic. It has proved how crucial it is for the state to strengthen and promote reforms. I am absolutely certain that this will also be done by the new leadership of the Ministry of Interior. The follow-up we had planned in the Ministry included the introduction of teleworking, volunteering, the promotion of multi-level governance, a key for the reform state structure which has been discussed widely with local government through the regional conferences of the CEDEFOP and through many discussions with the regions and the union of the regions. There has been a great deal of advancement by the committee responsible, under the chairmanship of Professor Kontiadis, and it is part of the philosophy that we have followed in the Ministry of Interior, the decisive strengthening of self-government with responsibilities, resources and staff, and further strengthening the self-government of local government. As you can see - and this is what I want to finish - it is self-evident for me - from the outset I have taken part in this great effort - that I will continue to support consistently the reforms and the fair changes that the country needs, reforms based on the values of our prolongation, the values of freedom, solidarity and responsible patriotism. They are represented by the Prime Minister of the country Kyriakos Mitsotakis with whom I have been identified from the outset before he is elected President of the New Democracy and I continue to do so with complete credibility and sense of responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u84	And we thank Mr. Theodorikos. And not to ask for it, it was a moral obligation, at least, of all colleagues as former minister and man who, until the last minute, defended and recommended this bill even towards the end of the committee. Thank you, Mr. Theodorikos. Mrs Olga Gerovasili, Member of the SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u85	Ladies and gentlemen, we are all experiencing particularly unfavourable conditions with tragic health, the economy in our country, with responsibilities which, of course, have names, criminal responsibilities of the New Democracy, and when the Greek people are fighting for their life, Mr Mitsotakis in the absence of any government wisdom he allegedly resorts to the angerian people, saying of the famous fiasco of the vaccines "whoever is raped is stumbling" to justify the unjustified excuses. While the initial announcement of the two million vaccinations per month was made five to eight thousand, the government aspires to the thirty thousand. Make divisions to see when immunity will be achieved in the population. The sure thing is that if we do not talk about more than sixty thousand vaccinations a day, in a time when safety is actually provided to the population, there will be no immunity. A trade of hope and a new success story in the Prime Minister's interview yesterday. At the time he interviewed and tried to tell us that everything was going well, the ministers tabled an amendment to this bill to allow for an extension of 15 days for the indebted households. Thirty-five thousand borrowers remain outside the court proceedings for the first residence, although they have protection of the law because of their incorporation into the Katseli law. These, with the risk of these thirty-five borrowers. I'm coming to the bill. Mr Theodorikos was recommended by Mr. Theodorikos. He was then removed from his post. He continues the reform of the New Democracy, the current Minister, and he adopts the record of so-called innovations in recruitment. I do not understand exactly where the New Democracy is innovating, which has repeatedly promised that it will rationalise the public and restore the rule 'one to five' in terms of recruitment - departures. He objected to SYRIZA, our government, because we had succeeded with effort - in order to set up the state mechanism and to be able to meet the basic needs - one by one in the recruitment rule. You are setting up, you say, gentlemen of the New Democracy, the annual recruitment planning throughout the state. This recruitment planning has already been institutionalised in SYRIZA. It's not new. You are creating for the first time a full-scale written recruitment contest. The founding law of the AACC provides for and has been recruited to the public by means of a written invitation to tender. Of course you know all this, and I think that directing was not necessary. Just freeze the objective recruitment procedures. And I say that, because the well-advertised law, the one for the entire Greek competition, will be - as you say - every two years. The first tendering procedure is provided for in the third quarter of 2022. This seems to me a little pro-electional. In other words, in 'plan B', if the government fails to make an early election in a pandemic, it suits me for an election record. Until then, recruitment is carried out by way of derogation for a few and select ones. Of course, as the current Minister said - it has been admitted - when we discussed recruitment in hospitals: 'And who do you want to hire? The strangers? Our people will be hired." I don't think the Minister has left any room for untrue. As you know, blue-collar commuters precede, even when human lives are at stake. A trade of hope, therefore, in an unemployment-stricken society, and at the same time, we close our eyes to electoral clientele for derogating appointments and fixed-term contracts. Of course, you have brought some legislative improvements, such as the fact that you have finally predicted that experience will be limited. Another anticipated is that, for each year of work experience, it corresponds only to one molecule, while until now it has been quantified every month of work experience. You have innovated, abolishing - and after the reactions you have brought it back - the modulation of language learning. You accepted that the interview must be, at least, structured, as SYRIZA suggested. However, you continue to give scandalously eight hundred molecules to the interview, above what they correspond to doctors. At least, you have taken back provisions that were unfairly abolishing the quota for multitude, tripartite, HEI and special categories. However, this draft law does not strengthen the AACC. I do not think that there was a problem with the AACC was whether a fourth vice-chairman or six further consultants would be appointed, at a cost of EUR 375,000 per year. Assuming that you have increased the staff of the AACC, you have accelerated procedures and strengthened the infrastructure of the AACC, then, of course, the tenders could evolve more quickly, and, of course, this whole New Democracy counter-reformation, the process freeze from now on, the additional ones, the 235% increase in the costs of the Secretary-General who are subject to the Prime Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, no matter how much you do not admit it, the administrative reform has taken place in the government of SYRIZA and I have been talking about recent years, not earlier. Single mobility system, digital organograms, job contours, meriting heads' choices, electronic evaluation of structures and employees, re-establish rule one by one, recruitment planning, structured interview. Christoforos Vernardakis is here - who made a big bill over my days and then - with Marilissa Xinoyannakopoulos many of these reforms have been implemented, which you are currently and correctly. Even the 'HUBEX II' programme for the electronic operation of the public sector, now in the pandemic, has been launched on our day. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Conclusions and conclusion, Mr President. Reforms took place on SYRIZA. We have been misunderstood, doubted, ridiculed, and today you are simply irritating the waters. The New Democracy is going to make a full-fledged competition, which, if it does, would cost 5 million euros. Until then, appointments for a few, chosen, because you clearly do not want appointments to the public and, above all, objective. Not even at a time of pandemic, when the need to strengthen the public health system with staff is now a matter of life and death. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Gerovali. I would ask that the Stepma be prepared in order for the parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, Mr Kostas Scandalidis, to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u87	Ladies and gentlemen, starting from the position of the Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement - a role that, despite the thirty years of my parliamentary presence, I have never exercised as an institution and is one of the few I have not exercised - I want to make a reference to Andreas Lovertos and tell you that I am succeeding an important executive, who, with his long presence in the parliamentary representation of the party, has done important work. He worked hard and efficiently, regardless of agreements or disagreements that always exist in a democratic party. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall start a little historically. I happened to participate, even as Minister of the Interior, in the government which recommended and voted with the historic initiative of Anastassis Pepongis, then Minister of Public Administration, the key to the progress and development of our state n.2190/94. I want to bring the memory of the oldest of you in the surrounding atmosphere. People's outrage, because it was closing the window in the party and anarchist appointments, inner-party controversy, and within our line about the political costs we would pay. Penpons himself paid for it by election. It was a great initiative, a huge incision that went against the popular feeling, as the widespread popular feeling kept the country late. In the face of the difficulties the intersection has become. With blanks? Maybe. The question is, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, are you, who were then, when a real revolution was under way, which combined with the brave decentralisation and institutional reconstruction of our democracy changed the course of history in this country? To the opposite bank and the right bank. Aren't there any problems implementing it? Of course! First of all, despite the strong resistance of Pepongis, the continuation of recruitment procedures with project contracts, without strict application of the CSCE criteria, was a problem in our own government. Who solved these problems along the way? The successive PASOK governments alone and until 2004, which closed all windows and, at the same time, established a framework for central planning of recruitments, for efficiency indicators in public administration, for the development of employees and, of course, we filled the country with the top-level JEPs, the principle of the digital state, in the service of the citizens, with the next three-year period of 2009-2012. Meanwhile, New Democracy came to things and brought the interview not as an idea, but as a practice, which restored the possibility of party appointments. The Greek state still pays the serial appointments of hundreds of thousands that had overstaffed ASEAN from 2004 to 2009. I'm sorry to say this, but you've got a slight posteriority. You are trying to put one of your own, in your opinion, of the reform law. You are disturbed by identifying changes and modernisations with your real opponent. What happened and lasts as a progressive, modernistic and a worthwhile framework for the operation of the public administration is a PASOK project and is very dedicated to those who are ambitious to rewrite the history of post-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-municipal. Ladies and gentlemen, do you honestly believe that this law that we are discussing today will disappear the law of Peponnes and from tomorrow everyone will be sworn to the law of Theodorikos or the last Voridis? What did you bring? You even brought one more gonatogram. Think of the one who wants to understand how he will claim, with his value, a place in the government, to refer him to this law to understand it. Pineapples and horns, uncooked. What does the public administration need today in the light of the dramatic changes that are taking place? It needs a simple administration, with objectives and results, with transparency and merit, with continuous evaluation and, above all, with the adaptation to the knowledge of science and technology. What are you doing with the bill? First, you're repositorying the Greek competition. There was the Greek competition. Its terms of application were the problem and another different more enhanced IASC, which could be applied unintentionally, without any delay, that is to say, another type of change that you are bringing here today. On the contrary, the notorious state with the hundreds of poster and without any criteria defined in what merital framework is being built? Recruitment planning and the entire Greek competition are institutionalised. The problem was and is the possibility of responding to the AACC in such a process, at a time when it runs by a thousand. How will he respond? By raising its members by a few units? By raising his budget by some gloomy millions? We're not serious! Here it takes an incision to make the Peponnes law truly a modern framework, which will enable not only to close all windows but also to ensure a worthy, substantial and modern public administration. Second, merit: With the huge molecules of the interview? By rendering the Minister's competence to judge with his own decision the needs, provisions and criteria? With the need for an internal APA to be replaced with another competence of members who do not even have a decisive responsibility in the internal procedure of the existing capacity? Is there a periodic evaluation or implementation of efficiency indicators in your vocabulary? I think not. There are others that the public administration needs and other bills you are bringing today to vote on. And the third and most important: The relationship between administration and monitoring rapid developments. Are you moderns downgrade formal qualifications, when today the country demands people with skills, expertise and possibilities to respond to a real need for the development process and the general formation of our state? If you really wanted to fill out the existing framework, you should only deal with it, so that the state can stop putting obstacles to development. You didn't. Another bureaucratic mechanism instead of becoming a fetus of growth. Ladies and gentlemen, I have already mentioned your uninterrupted and monotonous repetitive reform. Every law you bring to this House - whatever Minister, and bring it - you call it important reform. Is this about taxation? We have, at least, passed three reform laws so far. Security? Health? Education? Political fragmentary, unprotected, clipboard, with no depth and duration, which do not respond to modern needs, are being baptized reforms. I wonder, is the Prime Minister, who is a smart man, not aware of the danger posed by the name-of-name reforms that take the form of a gonatogram, such as today's specific laws? Does he not care what the people are about to decide through the natural deterioration of the government, seeing this process being followed? Honestly, they did not need so much detailed provisions to exercise a "old-right" recipe under the cover or wrapping of the law of Pepongi. However, despite our overall negative position, some of the articles that we consider reasonable or which you will do better, will be voted on. Most of all, however, we are making proposals which could improve the legislation and which our rapporteur has put forward, both in committee and in plenary today. It is not too late to accept many of them. Ladies and gentlemen, the public administration indeed needs significant structural changes with modern conditions and substantial upgrading of the IAS, upgrading and executive and economic and administrative, in order to respond to the need for clean unrealistic and aptitude procedures for the recruitment and internal AASP procedures in the development and evaluation of management staff and important areas that ensure a modern administration, equipped with staff corresponding to the technological and revolutionary changes that we are experiencing. But that is why you should follow the reverse procedure, codify. What's simpler? There have been many changes in laws since the law of Peponnes. But under the Peponnes law, you should codify, make a regular codification, as good legislation requires, a normal coding. What you bring is not coding, you badly show it as coding. At the same time, once you have completed this, there is a need for an additional framework for the AACC and the recruitments, which will ensure the conditions for its implementation. There's our problem. In order to do this, however, a comprehensive plan for changing the state is needed in the light of the huge overthrows that are taking place. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] But these - and I shall end, ladies and gentlemen - require another model of governance. Unfortunately, with your practice in these difficult times, the country sees the train of storms going through us without a stop. And since we are all wondering and wondering about progressive governance, about conservative governance, about all these things, there are real differences between progressive and conservative governance. And we were, we are, and we will always be in favour of progressive governance, with all the conclusions and you want to make that we will go in one direction or another, cooperate with SYRIZA or cooperate with New Democracy. We are along the way those who are with our identity, with our policy, with our strategy, with our clear view and with our reformist dynamics, which you unfortunately do not have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u88	We are also grateful for the complete respect of time. To prepare for the Step, in order for the New Democracy MP Anna Mani - Papadimitriou to take the floor, and immediately after the word will the President of the Change Movement, Mrs. Here, Mrs. Papadimitriou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to wish you all a good year. In 2021, two hundred years from the Greek Revolution, a year - milestone for our country and the unscrupulous Hellenism, let it be the year that will mark the end of the pandemic and the beginning of a new and creative beginning for the whole world! In fact, the year begins with the hope of vaccination, to which we must all be involved. Also, I wish to wish the new leadership of the Ministry of Interior good power, good success and good start to the new tasks. In fact, the principle is today with a flagrant bill modernising the recruitment system in the public sector and strengthening the functioning of the ADP, a bill which, regardless of any attempts by counter-population, constitutes a substantial reform, a real section that increases the overall public administration, as well as other areas that this government has brought about, such as reforms to digital governance. Ladies and gentlemen, no one can question that the public recruitment system twenty-seven years after the adoption of the founding law of the SAAP, an important law, really needs improvements, modernisation and updating. Real data speak for themselves. Indeed, the current legislative framework was particularly rewarding for formal qualifications. The provision for a written invitation to tender was in fact in place but was not in practice applicable. 97% of the recruitments from the law's vote to date have been made on the basis of other procedures and not on the basis of a written procedure, which is undoubtedly the most transparent, worthwhile and impracticable procedure. Truthfully two: The time-consuming process. A long time has elapsed between the notice and the completion of a post, and when the staff member has been recruited there has already been a new need for the administration and the institution concerned. Truth three: A law passed in 1994, however innovative it was for its time, cannot respond to the 2021 and digital age data and requirements. The supply and skills of people who are currently serving a modern and functional public can no longer be sought on the basis of the existing legislative framework. All these issues are dealt with effectively in this draft law, which introduces a system of recruitment characterised by merit, objectivity and transparency, a system that ensures that the most suitable people in the public will work for each position and not those who only fulfil the formal qualifications. Thus, at the heart of legislative intervention is the full-scale written competition of knowledge and skills, according to the best European and international standards, which will take place at least once every two years. This, of course, does not mean that formal qualifications cease to be taken into account. On the other hand, this draft law mobilises an additional postgraduate or doctoral title in relation to the current regime, and particularly the mobilisation of foreign languages and of work experience, adopted by the Minister with legislative improvements as a product of a fertile parliamentary dialogue. Of course, I could not refer to the very important provision of Article 12, which provides for increased tracking for permanent residents who will choose to serve public services in areas with unfavourable geographical, population and geographical characteristics, in particular, remote, island and small mountain municipalities. This is a regulation which has been in existence, but which has been made more precise and detailed. Minister, because the Greek region needs total support, I would like to suggest that you look at the possibility of applying the quantification of locality in all cases, that everyone who chooses to go back to their home country or stay in it should also be mobilised. Such arrangements will make a decisive contribution to decentralisation and, above all, to strengthening the Greek region, an issue of the utmost importance for our country. In the same context, we could as a means of reversing Brain Drain, which has so badly affected our country, also consider a similar moleculosis, of course, within the constitutional limits, for young people who have left the country, to give them an extra incentive to return home. Finally, I would like to focus on some of the regulations of the bill with a particular social figure. I am referring first of all to the increase in the percentage of posts for disabled persons, for which the Government's interest and the Prime Minister's personal interest is strong and permanent. The National Action Plan on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities has recently been presented, and it is already in public consultation and the first relevant bill for the National Accessibility Authority. Special attention shall also be paid to specific categories of candidates, multi-tiers, third-tiers, relatives of AIFMs for whom a specific recruitment rate is ensured. Ladies and gentlemen, today's bill introduces a faster, more objective and effective public recruitment system, a system, above all, away from any customer logic, a system that rewards the new generation, which is fighting hard and which now knows that if it tries and really deserves it, it can succeed. The universal written tender for recruitment to the public will be another one of the top legacy that the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis will leave in the political history of our country, a reform which, in addition, will restore the lost confidence of our citizens and, above all, of our young towards political power. It is another historic part of the New Democracy, ladies and gentlemen, as was the vote of the Greeks abroad, a bill in which I had the particular honour of being rapporteur, which was voted for by two hundred eight eight Members, showing that the representatives of the Greek people can be united in the larges. For all these reasons, this bill deserves to be accepted and supported by all political forces, beyond sterile controversy. That requires the good of our country. This imposes the wider public interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, too, for keeping time. Mr Kamines, Member of the Change Movement, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Mr President. "You must withdraw this bill for the good not anymore of the Greek public administration, because we no longer expect any good from you, but in order not to embarrass national and social cohesion, because this bill is splitting. It's a political felony. There is only one way: to withdraw it.” Ladies and gentlemen, these words are not mine. They were assembled on 2 February 1994 from this House during the debate in plenary on the draft law founded by the AACC. They belong to the rapporteur of the opposition officer at that time, Mr. Vyrona Polydora, and they render in the most authentic way the New Democracy's position on the APRC, which, of course, voted against it. He mentioned Mr Polydora's words before and Mrs Liikanouli, so that we do not forget. Since then, of course, it 'was too much water in the groove'. The APRC has gradually become a citizen's consciousness, and is even forced today by the New Democracy to knit it. Of course, recruitment flows have not been completely eliminated with the ADP. Those who were mayors at the time of the monuments, in particular in 2011-2015, paid large reserves of mental courage, time and energy with the problem of the contractors we inherited. Trials on strikes, workstations and workers' demonstrations, occupations on municipal buildings and facilities. We have all lived through this, without even knowing how many workers we would be in the next day. One court found that some dismissed contractors had to return, another court that others had to leave. It was an unprecedented suffering not only for the municipalities and residents but also for the workers themselves who were paid for on the block, they were constantly hostage electorate and aspiring mayors, even though they themselves were serving permanent and permanent needs and should have been permanent. I do not know whether we have realised this, but because of the government's extraordinary recruitment to deal with pandemic, we may be creating a new generation of contractors. Ladies and gentlemen, IASP has now become aware of the Greeks, because it has imposed objectivity on the process by which citizens are recruited in public administration as far as it could. To the greatest extent objectivity, but not creativity. This second is much more complicated. The goodness of people has many aspects. We can measure it and stop it with many criteria, without ever being sure that we have chosen the best or rather the most appropriate for the positions that are intended. In recent years we have preferred to molecule on the basis of degrees and diplomas. We have conducted very few written tenders, although they were already provided for by the founding law of the AACC, and we have abolished the oral interview after the humiliation suffered in the years 2004-2009. Well degrees and diplomas, ladies and gentlemen, but they only certify the possession of certain knowledge. In addition, they shall not guarantee the workforce or the ability of the staff member to deal with the citizens nor to manage with the effectiveness of human and material resources nor to take the appropriate decisions when he is called upon by responsibility to make critical choices. These skills, as far as possible at the intake stage, can only be obtained through written invitations and oral interviews. The latter must also be public and the members of the committee carrying out the task of justifying their opinion, as provided for in the case-law of the Council of State. During his last speech in committee, Mr Theodorikos told us that the public oral interview has never been made in the public or private sector. For the private sector, I do not know, but for the public, the former Minister is wrong. I assure you that by 2010, the recruitment of staff to the Citizens' Prosecutor was on the basis of formal qualifications but also with a public oral interview. I have been involved in over five hundred oral interviews, in which they could also be very often attended by the co-chairs. Let us at least foresee that, Minister, the candidates will also be able to attend. It is a very important guarantee of transparency in the face of arbitrariness. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] However, the question of the quality of the public administration's intellectual potential is not exhausted in the recruitment procedures. Equally important is the aptitude of the heads of government. Already in March 2010, before the first Memorandum, the Parliament approved the bill that later became Law.3839 and provided for the selection of the Directors-General from the LAG, the Special Selection Council for Heads, an independent body consisting of five members of the IAS and a representative of the Citizens' Counselor. This body was responsible for the selection of directors, the conduct of written tenders and the oral interviews, which were made in the way I said. The law provided that the candidates could also be present. The selection of all directors and directors in the public sector would now be based on written examinations and interviews. The term of office of the Directors-General was five years in order for good reason to exceed the government's term of office. This pioneering law recommended by Mr Ragus, as the government's competent minister at the time, was a law of the government of Papandreou, a reformist government in very difficult times. He was voted against by SYRIZA, also voted against by New Democracy, which left in the debate at first instance. Let me remind you, Minister, what you said at the time as a Member of another party about the departure of the New Democracy: 'What is concerned' you said at the time, 'the office opposition is not to harm some of its establishments in public administration, and that is why it will give the battle for all of us and the fight to the end'. For the establishments of your party, today, you were talking at that time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u92	That's why we won after!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u93	It entered the fridge, de facto abolished this 2013 law, and thus the choices of the heads to reconstruct the political leadership in question. What I want to say in short, ladies and gentlemen, is that the New Democracy does not convince me that what it really wants is to go ahead with modernising public administration. The government has raised us in the masturbations since the first day it took over. Is it finally - and I wonder - the state run by a masturbation government with fifty-seven members? Is the last-minute amendments good legislation, which each of them has the size of the whole bill? Is the principle of the continuity of the State, when you are constantly appointing posted officials even in management posts such as the Ministry of Migration Policy? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Do you normally work with us when you talk about the first SAP competition that will take place in September 2022, that is, after two years, and until then you will have hired a bunch of officials from the window, as is done in the various Ministries and the Ministry, of course, which I have the honour of controlling? Many believe that you are taking a decisive step towards modernising the administration through digital governance. Big mistake! Technology is just a means. What matters is people. Above all, public administration requires people capable, hardworking and dedicated to duty, and this in turn requires evaluation. We are therefore waiting for the bill for the evaluation of civil servants, Minister, which we hope will have better luck than today's Prime Minister's terrible failure when he was Minister for Administrative Reform in 2013. And we are, of course, waiting to see the other bill announced by your predecessor - and he repeated it today - the bill on local government. Will you dare proceed to real administrative decentralisation? Will we finally take the decisive step towards overcoming the supranational state, which produces bureaucracy and corruption?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u94	Please, Mr. Kamine, close. You've gone a long way and I haven't even put time in the first place.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u95	I shall conclude, Mr President. It's my last sentence. Will you proceed to the creation of metropolitan governance in Attica and in the wider Thessaloniki? Will you have the courage to abolish the fragmentation of the Attica Lekadium in sixty-six municipalities? So here we are, and we expect to see where, in fact, the reformist pillar of the present government will arrive. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u96	I call on the New Democracy MP, George Kotria, to step up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u97	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the right to work, especially in the public sector, must be implemented in conditions of complete transparency, complete publicity, objectivity and dignity. That is why a state that wants to be called modern and lasting must first of all have ensured a credible and fair recruitment system. The long-term implementation of recruitment through the AACC with Law No 2190/1994 has obviously highlighted a system which is undeniably incomprehensible, but has also highlighted its omissions in terms of democracy, social justice and adaptability. That is why a hundred and thirty-seven times have been amended. This draft law shows us the way to the improvements needed by the national recruitment system in order to continue to be inconsistent, while making it fairer, more meritable, faster, thus more effective. Basic reform intervention is the introduction of the entire written tender as the main process of filling permanent staff and staff with an indefinite contract of private law. It will be carried out once, as has already been said, in two years, in order to renew at regular intervals the list of candidates who will be invited to meet the constantly changing needs of public bodies. The written invitation to tender shall contain two main evaluation axes: firstly, the examination of general and specific knowledge related to the position for which each candidate is submitted, and secondly, the skill and work efficiency test with an assessment of the candidate’s skills. At the same time, to cover the positions of the specialist scientific staff SPD as well as the positions of IT, TE and PT categories related to the safety and health of human life, there is provision for an individual interview in addition to the written tests - why? - in order to determine the suitability of candidates and the system to achieve the objective we want, namely to be more pragmatic. It should be noted that to date the interview has been the only way of recruiting special scientific staff without prior written examination. Thus, the part of dignity is strengthened in the system of evaluation and selection of staff. Why should we consider that in order to take up certain positions and specialties it is necessary to go beyond the formal qualifications and specificities of candidates who so far have not been taken into account. Today, unfortunately, there are many examples of being recruited in key posts that even hold two masters but lack basic skills, such as administrative skills, decision-making capacity, societality, contact with the public, and others. Allow me to do so, after I have been running as mayor for sixteen years and have lived them firsthand. Of course, the conduct of the written invitation does not cancel the possession of the formal qualifications of the candidates. This is why the following formal qualifications are taken into account for candidates in the categories of PE and TE, i.e. the PhD, the independent postgraduate degree, the single postgraduate degree. It also seems that with academic qualifications and the written tender now, an objective picture is created about the suitability of the candidates. The bill also solves one of its major problems to date, as it provides for increases in the final rating of the candidates based on locality, providing incentives for the residents of specific areas to remain in the public services of their country, with a commitment of course ten years of service. Today is a very common phenomenon - and we have lived this all these years - of the candidates who are recruited, for example, in municipal services away, of course, from their home place, and who, after their recruitment, want to leave and serve at their place where their families and interests are and in the end are left without the staff they have hired, but also without the long-term planning. For this reason, the bill provides for a mobilisation of twenty units for permanent residents of municipalities with particularly adverse geomorphological characteristics and ten units for residents of municipalities with less unfavourable characteristics. At the same time, it integrates in the competitive process additional social protection groups, such as multitexts, third parties and relatives. I'm staying a little on the family LEADER, because it's terrible to have a brother of LEADER who you're going to have to keep all your life when your parents leave, and you can't have a fair treatment from the Greek State. In fact, for each group, there is always a certain percentage of recruitment, of course, on the basis of the scores of the written invitation to tender. A special reference will be made to the arrangements for our fellow citizens with disabilities, where the bill clearly determines the percentage of permanent and IDAC staff seats that they can cover. Thus, the rate is increasing from 10% to 12% of the declared posts, while the priority recruitment process remains. In conclusion, this draft law aims to speed up the recruitment procedures of candidates at all stages, from the call for posts to the disposal of public bodies and such as in all the drafts prepared so far by the Ministry of the Interior, once again proves to be essential and geared to giving real solutions to existing problems, contributing to the modernisation of the wider public sector and creating the necessary conditions for an effective and fair state. Thank you very much and wish everyone a good and creative year.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, too, for keeping time. The President of the Change Movement, Mrs. Gennimata, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u99	Thank you very much, Mr President. Happy year to everyone, since it's the first time I've been in Stepma for 2021. I really hope that this will be the year when we get our lives back and that we will end this entire adventure that we are living through and we will all speak together in this Chamber and not under these circumstances. Ladies and gentlemen, we are really proud, because it is our party that has acted with great reform, progressive, emblematic, substantial, in relation to the functioning of the public sector and the recruitment of civil servants. It was the PASOK law, Law No.2190 or the Penpie Act as it remained in history, for the ASP, which established transparency and objectivity in recruitment for the first time. It has been a strong blow to those who insist on the customer state, to transaction, to rospheti and to the hostage of citizens. It is no coincidence that the New Democracy was the party that fought with rabies this reform, voted against the law and, as a government later, did everything it could to undermine it and cancel it in practice. Faithful in the client state, the Government of the New Republic of Kostas Karamanlis proceeded to an orgy of party appointments and undignified waste, which, of course, also played an important role next to the financial crisis. However, whatever attacks the AACC has taken is still standing and still standing because it has conquered citizens' confidence and this is extremely important. It emerged as one of the most reliable institutions of the Greek state. It therefore wants a great deal of courage to present the New Democracy's party with this political curriculum as the reformer of this reform. We are here to safeguard the authority of the institution, but at the same time to reveal and what are the real intentions through the methods of this draft law. Ladies and gentlemen, every major reform, indeed, is tested in practice and is absolutely legitimate and must be improved in the course of the years, in order to achieve the best possible result. This was done, after all, several times in previous years during PASOK ruled. But not being undermined to return to doomed old-fashioned practices. Because what you are doing today, gentlemen of the New Democracy Government. After you have broken every record in the recruitment of posters and indeed in their place in heads, in violation of each authority of administrative hierarchy, since you have constantly circumvented the AACC by way of derogations, now proceed to a series of arrangements that are not only reform, not only support the AACC, transparency, objectivity, but also open windows for new derogations, for new interventions, with an obvious aim of serving others. I have said - and I say it again - that what you are presenting as reforms in reality are demolitions. I would particularly like to focus on the question of thecorporation you are opening, with the possibility of the government deciding to conduct interviews with a decisive role in recruitment, not only as is the case for special scientific staff, but essentially for all categories by invoking health and safety grounds, such as, of course, the so-called skill test, rationalization or gymnastics established by the bill under discussion. I would also like to point out the unjustified increase in the number of members of the IACC from twenty-eight to thirty-five, which is aimed at finally controlling the independent authority in total contrast with the spirit of the Constitution. The Change Movement is not going to consent to circumventing and weakening this historic reform which the progressive democratic party has done and for which we are an institutional guarantor today. It is clear that we are voting against this plan, which serves only the objectives of the 'Maximus S.A.'. Ladies and gentlemen, both Mr Mitsotakis and the former Minister for the Interior have attempted to present this legislation as a great reform. We were prepared by Mr Mitsotakis that this new year will begin with this important reform, the change in the law of the SAAP, in order to ensure, as he said, that transparency, objectivity in recruitment, that the right person should be chosen in the right place. Words, words, words, a lot of words. The former Minister made statements about allegedly cross-party processing of critical arrangements. Everything turned out to be carbon. We didn't even see the thoughts, and we didn't hear them. One night they showed up! In this year and a half of New Democracy's governance, the truth is that we have seen no substantial reform. Your reform agenda is from negative to non-existent. That's the truth. The others are propaganda. It is not a reform that violates every rule of good legislature which this Parliament has created, with a culmination in the bill - a rag of more than 50, of any kind, of any kind of service, just three days before Christmas. Reformation is not authoritarianism, arrogance, and above all, the reduction of the chair to the highest value, the lack of strategic planning for critical areas of public life. The reform is not "Maximou S.A.", the prime minister state, which is even more and more incapable of serving the needs of the citizens in a very critical period and, of course, incapable of finally modernising public administration, the so-called "final" state of ministerial interrelations, the constant ruptures - was extinguished. That's what we live! In his interview yesterday, the Prime Minister also referred to the issue of vaccination. He redescribes magical images. "In words I am building up above and below. " The day before yesterday it was reported eight thousand vaccinations a day. Yesterday he talked about twenty thousand. Finally, fewer words and more actions in this very important issue for the health and life of the citizens! To operate the vaccination centres, to be staffed. To be recruited, where necessary, immediately. Adequate staff need to be able to operate the vaccination centres. The reform is not the cresent of centralisation, the depreciation of the members of the government and the strengthening of the organs of artificial majority and doubtful, ultimately, democracy. The reform is not the war on information pluralism and the highly selective state financial support of the instruments. On the contrary, this affects democracy, with the consequence that we are in the global press freedom index for 2020, for 'Publishers without Borders', and for comparison with Hungary in Orban. The reform, of course, is not in any way the draft law under discussion, as we have shown. In one thing you show, gentlemen of the New Democracy, continuity and consistency: in the deep backward, conservative right logic, based on the client state and the services. This is the core of your policy. The center profiles have been humiliated. They even comment on those media that, with your indebtedness, support. Your policies now lie far behind the demands of times and especially the demands of young people for dignity, transparency, equal rights in all areas. And I say this because, in this case, the AACC is a matter that concerns young people in particular. If you really wanted an honest dialogue to improve the procedures, then we would be the first to have accepted it. You don't want him because you can't stand him. You're afraid of him. Fear all the progressive reforms. In addition, it appeared that you "clicked on the right" of the recent remodelling. And that is not just about the choice of people. It concerns, in particular, the content of policies. Ladies and gentlemen, since 15 January, thirty-five thousand households are in danger of losing their home. The auctions are here. So change the question, gentlemen of the government. Give us a solution. Freeze the auctions now, at least for a semester. Finally, there are limits! Not everything about the banks and the funds! Ladies and gentlemen, the real reforms are in the DNA of the democratic party with works and not with slogans and labels. We insist on strengthening the ADP, full-fledged state integration, and we are ready for the major sectors that lead to a modern European state. We have talked many times about our proposals. I shall be briefings: Secretary-General through notices with transparent selection and term of office. The same is true of the selection of management agencies and hospitals. Upgrade the AAR to monitor and coordinate all human resources management of the public administration for recruitment, mobility, evaluation, development. Upgrading of public administration officials, drastically limiting the number of retired persons at ministerial offices and of course, evaluation, transparency, dignity everywhere for all. Progressive reforms are at the heart of the progressive governance that we are professing and which is supported daily as a demand for society. And whoever has questions about what includes and what is not the much-discussed progressive governance, has only heard the demands of progressive European citizens every day not only in Greece, but also in Europe or simply read our own proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u100	And we thank the President. I call on the Stepma, after being prepared sanitaryly, SYRIZA MEP, Christoforos Vernardakis. Here, Mr. Bernardakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Mr President. Let's play a little game of the right and defective ideas according to the ideological mentor of the current Minister, the French founder of the new right, Alen de Benos. Here is an idea: Minimum condition for the reform and modernisation of the recruitment system is the abolition of the planned exceptions for off-site recruitment procedures. The constitutional rule for subjecting all recruitment procedures to the public control of the AACC is inconsistent with the multitude of exceptions and with the limited exercise of the control role of the AACC to non-permanent staff. Good or defective idea? Here is a second idea: a framework of recruitment with transparency and merit cannot be established unless an up-to-date model and a new branch register is drawn up, a single table of branches in the public sector with the formal qualifications required and, in particular, the accepted qualifications, because obviously, another criterion is that you hire an IT engineer and another administrative officer. Good or defective idea? A third idea: Strengthening the AASP means providing adequate staffing for staff and specialities, competences to exercise modern human resources management policies in the public sector, support for infrastructure and organisational structure. Instead, useless tops and caves are provided, such as the additional fourth Vice-President and an increase of six board members. What is the right idea and what is the defective idea? Is it a good idea for the political system to make supposedly written national tenders and not to appoint the successful ones? Because that was in 1998 and 2008. And it took years and years and decisions of the courts and the Council of State to correct the SYRIZA government's unprecedented inadequacy to thousands of people. Our idea says that public health and hospitals, education, universities - not with police officers as announced today but with academics, teachers, researchers - must be strengthened. Your idea is not to hire a permanent staff and make an unprecedented delivery of posted staff, which will soon be more than permanent staff. At the moment, post-mortem employees are estimated at about 15% of central administrative bureaucracy. Time hires and contractors and they go out and say. What idea is correct and what idea is defective? Apparently, it's not a word game. The 'defective ideas', this de Benoit's descriptive by the ideologist Vorides, to build his ideological front on the left, a flaw, make the simple people, the beneath a class division society, claim self-evident, their life and freedom. The "defective" ideas, like the "defective" people who embrace them and the "defective" nations and peoples who possess them, are an old-fashioned fascist pattern and even, even older than fascism, a pattern of what de Benos and the National Front in France and relocate to Greece, the current Minister of the Interior, who was placed there to prevent the "democratic" ideas from regaining the democratic game and recalling with all its cynicism that democracy is not for everyone, the state has owners and the intruders must be expelled. This ideologist either speaks through Allen de Benoit or speaks as Robdi Hert - you understand, Mr Voridis - a little drama lives right now. The one who was in favour of the absolute partyisation of the state, saying that the general secretaries were, are and must be party and not administrative persons, the one who in the Ministry of Rural Development until a few hours ago made thousands of appointments, the one who "sweetly" reminds us what the deep state must do when some are not "good" children, is forced today to wear the consensual mask and talk about things that are not of any interest to him, just to pass today and deal with his real goal: the legitimate and institutional way to exclude Left from the state and limit democracy. Let's see, will you make it?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, Mr. Bernardakis. We continue with the Member of the New Democracy, Mr Konstantinos Blouchos. Mr. Blucho, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good year to everyone and everyone, good health! Good luck, Minister, in your work!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u104	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u105	I would like, starting with my intervention, to table two maximum stations in our own way for meritality, which, however blindly, are parts of our social contract. First station, since the Constitution of 1822, that of Epidaurus: "All Greeks in all posts and honors have the same right. And give them their only merit." Secondly, the valuable and time-consuming view of Emmanuel Royde's sovereignty and rule of law: 'Government that is unreserved to feed unnecessary and prefer a few incompetent people, not for the day would be able to live in parliament. The excluded would be gathered and held to this direct overthrow of these drones the bomb." In his unsuccessful attempt to approach the bill, the rapporteur for counter-population presented the state as the "Society Goddess" of left utopia. It is well known that the state for you is dominated by your political theology, but, unfortunately, you have been isolated at the height of a metaphysical policy and you have become a loser of the idea of reality. You are living with your ideological ghosts, regress from the necessity to the older and obsolete frescoes about the well - known bad right. The law of Peponis is a huge blessing to the Greek system of selection of state officials and civil servants. It is a station, because it has tried to introduce into the standard of objective examination a system for recording and evaluating qualifications for each candidate official and each candidate official of the state machine. The difference in what the Greek state has differentiated from the previous situation is obvious. But it is often necessary to introduce better legislation which, on a case-by-case basis, corrected or tried to interfere with the improvements in the levelling-up of exclusive written tenders. Is the written examinations, which are regarded as a system of acknowledging candidates or officials, at the time when we are living a perfectly fair selection system? Although the way of the examinations is not disputed, the result is often a concern to us. It has been said by a multitude of educators, who have been appointed by the isotopodical and, of course, outdated, worthwhile, yearbook, but who has successfully taught many generations of pupils, that often a success in writing and only an ASP is the success of an intelligent incompetent environment, that of education, an environment where, for example, those you read as a material of teaching and teaching behavior in order to successfully pass the contest, the teaching act, on the one hand, considers them outdated long ago, but, on the other, the sense of the enormous success that may be created in someone who is successful, creates the strain of the influence on him by his success, the taking of the intelligent incompetent who is avenge. All this is hard to hear, and it is clear that I need to apologize in advance, because I obviously seem unfair to the honesty of many worthy people and worthy officials. As a former public servant, an ERR surgeon, I am able to describe countless examples of people who, although over-qualified to formal qualifications and academic parchments, are the wrong people for their position. In every area of the public sector, they are an example of lack of responsibility. The Major Opposition in the discussions of the relevant committee has taken many of the opportunity to refer, on the occasion of the bill, to the pandemic and the response of the National Health System, to the needs of the people and to the pandemic phenomenon. They're messed up. They have been analyzed with IF beds and certainly "great turbulence, wonderful state", which also says your ideological support, the great Vladimir Ilich Ullianov. As a doctor, I feel the need to clear up the scenery. Not all patients enter and all severely ill in intensive care units, and this is not the result of selection and sorting criteria. In your attempt to defend the scientific community, you are targeting it. There are secure criteria and rated clinical indicators that health scientists follow and, of course, our patients are cured or end up in clinic beds and intensive care units and no doctors in Greek reality are subject to the institutionally framed changing conditions and screening conditions. In Greece, the majority refuses to testify to arms even to the certainty of death. He fights and fights for his sufferer, based on the sanctity of the life of each person and human dignity. So, friends of the Major Opposition do not become politically inappropriate, seeking to blame - policies, in this case - but, at the same time, targeting those you are supposed to defend, working on the scientific community. This government stands and will stand by this community with full respect and dedication to its sacred duty. Contrary to the unsuccessful effort of the Habitats' rapporteur to politicise the concept of left-wing state, the Minister, Mr Vorides, put things in order, mentioning features 'to put the citizen at the centre, to see how we can improve the provision of public administration to the citizen and have a clearer attitude here: that, when we reform the state, we do not reform it for the benefit of politicians, nor for the benefit of officials, but we reform it for the benefit of the citizens, like the ESS, which exists for our citizens and belongs to our citizens, it does not belong to our politicians, it does not belong to the authority, it does not belong to the health workers in it. It is all our responsibility to ensure the necessary conditions for the continued improvement of its quality services. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I shall be 30 seconds. This empowers and implements and will apply this government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, these have been proclaimed, these have been published, and they will be implemented permanently. Let us come to the key of the modern state, as manifested by the provisions of the present. We must finally end up with the hedonian self-help that the vicious cycle of effective evaluation has condemned us, the vicious circle that simulates empty shirts with the truly capable ones. Major Opposition is constantly destroying the importance of words and now still catalysts in the name of extremist populism and extremism, which have contributed to the dissolution of social cohesion and have been emphatically supported at all levels in the classroom. The Indian and parallel appalling form of the left-wing populist model of equality is the reflection of a misplaced class. Why else is it from unimpeded classicity against effort, differentiation, excellence, choice of best against good? You're probably convicted of your immature political psyche. I strongly propose that this vote be voted on. This is a huge contribution to modernising our state and its effectiveness by a government that believes in value, capacity, looking at tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, too. Mr Catherine Papakostas - Papura has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u107	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, with this reform legislation, the function of Parliament's plenary for the new year begins, which we hope will have a great deal of legislation that promotes constructive cross-party dialogue and the progress of the country. This time, of course, coincides with the taking up of the new tasks of the current Minister for the Interior, Mr Vorides, in which I wish to delete an excellent course, as he did with the Ministry of Rural Development and Food, by now continuing and completing the important legislative work to modernise the AEP, which was carried out by Mr Theodorikos' worthy predecessor. Ladies and gentlemen, twenty-six years after the Emblem Act No 2190/1994 of the late political Anastasios Peponis, we are faced with the new challenges that our times demand, the era of digitisation, reconstruction and modernization of the state apparatus, as well as the establishment of a public sector that is consistent with constitutional provisions and contributes to the self-evident legal objective of choosing the most appropriate candidate for each post. It is, in fact, regrettable in every debate relating to the staffing of the public sector, that there should be an irresponsible rhetorical populism for our country, without fundamental arguments and constructive dialogue. And you know why it's sad? Because there are these oversized percentages of Greek immigrants, who most of them have discrimination and qualifications from leading university institutions in our country and are obviously not prepared to expect several long periods of time for the call for competitions or the announcement of their results. And I would like to refer here to a survey carried out by ICAP People Solutions between 27-3-2019 and 8-5-2019 - for days of SYRIZA, namely - according to which 60% of young people were moved abroad with basic causes for their decision-making with complete lack of sovereignty, the great corruption of our country, but also the generalized uncertainty especially after 2010, i.e. the outbreak of the economic crisis. And because, as a government, we committed ourselves not only to stopping the leaking of valuable human resources from our country, but also to ensuring that the people who left, seeking work in the field of their studies, are returned, we are implementing a reform policy on the state mechanism, which, of course, serves this bill. Initially, with particular emphasis on digitising all procedures and on interoperability, we shield the intact recruitment procedures, which is our central priority, so that in a short time and intact procedures we can proceed from tenders to appointments. In addition, the written competitions, which have been about 5% of the notices, will now be fully interlinked with the AACC and its notices. The written procedures will henceforth be conducted by electronic means for all permanent and private legal posts of unlimited staff of the TE and TE training charges, as well as special scientific staff - in the standards of pan-Hellenic examinations - and will include two distinct parts, namely the examination of knowledge and skills tests and work- efficiency tests. On this point, let me stress the importance of both written examinations on the inspiring knowledge of candidates and the skill and labour efficiency tests, a method which is widespread in several European countries, but also in large private companies. These two ways of examining the candidate's ability to apply his inspired knowledge of the subject of work, using available tools and necessary elements of his character to cooperate with colleagues. In addition, in the context of constitutional welfare and with full respect for the principle of social justice, special attention shall be paid to the social groups of HEIs, polyteces, tritecs and others. However, we do not treat these special categories as disadvantaged to the rest of the participants. Even very important, in my opinion, is that this bill provides for the digitisation of all procedures, since it serves in particular to make use of public interoperability. This is how we achieve the basic objective of the time limit, so that from the call to the intake not to go through two years and all procedures are completed as soon as possible, by limiting bureaucracy, institutional shielding of procedures and speeding up recruitment procedures. To close, I would like to highlight two things. The first relates to the image presented by our country regarding the public system and its functioning, and the second is its intention to change that image radically. Ladies and gentlemen, it is now imperative that we lay new foundations for our state mechanism with worthy executives who will have competed on equal terms for their position. We are thus creating the public administration that will act as a charity in the development of the state and in modernising it, with a view to reliability, transparency, efficiency. We are fragmenting the existing culture, the perceptions of the outdated competition, the slow results and complex bureaucratic procedures. We are modernising and developing the law of Peponies and then the provision for written competitions is a rule. Written contest for everyone, because that's the merits in practice. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no time to waste. Now it's time to get back to page. With a view to the future, the Government of New Democracy is farewell to clienteles and pathogens of the past and ensures both the rationalisation of public administration and the creation of the necessary conditions of transparency and dignity to give the vision for young people to work in Greece. It dares and implements reforms that previous governments have not dared, defying any political costs for the benefit of the community as a whole. I am sure that this is a common place for everyone, and I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that today we are given the opportunity and the opportunity to return to a page and correct mistakes and passionate decades, not to be judged incomplete. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Let us all go through the message that even in the pandemic era we are working to serve the future, which can only be inspired by modern processes, merit and equal opportunities for all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, too. We continue by calling SYRIZA MP at Step - Progressive Alliance Mr. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u109	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I too wish good year, health and power to all. Minister, good start in your new duties. But I would like to take this opportunity to point out that life and politics keep us surprises that are often revealing and exposing, because our words and our works remain and are recorded. Just two years ago, in January 2019, in this Chamber, having emerged from the memorials, we discussed Law 4590/2019, as it was recorded, to strengthen the AAP, when with very tough negotiations we had - Mrs Gerovasili before me at the Ministry, like Mr Vernardakis who spoke earlier - the "one to one" in recruitment after ten years of memorial service. So we have come to strengthen the APA, upgrade it, set an annual and multi-annual programming, speed up and simplify procedures with two-year notices, establish electronic submission of documents, strengthen the entire operation for the benefit of the Greek citizen and the Greek public. Mr Vorides, then you were to us as a Parliamentary representative of the New Democracy and have fought a rabies battle against this bill. That is why I say that life and politics hold surprises. It was a battle that was fully equivocal against every rational planning of recruitment. Finally, you have only agreed on the multiannual programme, because you did not agree with the annual needs, as with all the other provisions that we then came and adopted. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] And life has brought it here today to support a bill prepared by your predecessor and you are actually coming to reinstate all these provisions that the SYRIZA government had adopted, but by putting your own particular touches on, which of course is not in favour of public administration and the necessary recruitment. Of course, to be fair, the line you served at the time, that of the denounced and equivocal opposition in every attempt at an administrative real reform, was not just your own place. It was the position of your party and the work of the New Democracy and Right party towards the state and the state over the past few years. After all, when SYRIZA took over in 2015, he found a broken public administration with the signature of the then Minister of Administrative Reform Mr.Mitsotakis. What was the name of the state of Mr. Mitsotakis and the government of Samaras then? It was characterized, firstly, by the availability, secondly, by the redundancies of three thousand civil servants, by the punishing assessment of 15% leading to the availability and redundancies and, of course, by the abolition of every concept of crisis over heads, as Mr Mitsotakis just before the elections by an administrative act replaced all the heads of ministries. So it was a very serious effort and work done by SYRIZA for public administration. And Christoforos Vernardakis and Olga Gerovasilis and all the ministers we passed from the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction we tried to act within the difficult monumental times and the fired and dismantled availability was abolished, proving that even in the Memorandum years it was important what political service and the claim made by each government. Most of all, there have been conditions of real dignity, with the mobility which, at last, has stopped customer transfers, with digital organograms and everything else that has been said before. And now, after a year and a half of an official state of New Democracy, which is essentially characterised by not excellence but by client relations, again, full violations of the principles of the IASC - unfortunately, in your previous ministry - from opaque procedures and direct assumptions on the grounds of pandemic, by constant recruitment of deputies who, at the moment, have reached a number of three thousand at a cost of EUR 65 million for the state budget, from this hydro-headed presidency system around the Prime Minister, which has at the moment tripled the costs - with posters, who have the least qualified, beyond their largest number - came this bill, which was launched by Mr. Theodorikos and continues today as well. It is a bill which, in fact, our rapporteur, Mr Zachariadis, said so, is above all a communication bill, supposedly of a great reform. But it also has a great deal of substance. Unfortunately, in the way it comes to foresee for the future, in 2022, this great written tender - although written competitions were also provided for in the original law of the ADP, even in our own governance - it actually comes to postpone the necessary recruitments, especially in places such as the National Health System in the middle of a pandemic or for education again through a pandemic that would have been the absolute need, having blocked all the planning of the recruitment of the SYRIZA governments. At the same time, of course, he comes to leave room for the recruitment of contractors and posters. It is true, Minister, that you have accepted the proposals of our rapporteur and of SYRIZA on a number of issues. However, this does not come to change first of all that it is a bill by which you are in fact simply coming to reintroduce all of these provisions that existed before, but also to put them under your own logic of the perfect party state and your own perception of excellence. In conclusion, because the issue of outstanding pensions is a major issue and because at the moment it has exceeded the number of four hundred thousand outstanding pensions, instead of making the necessary recruitments to the ECA, which should be a priority of the government in order to speed up the awarding of pensions for these thousands of pensioners living in poverty by means of a crisis, we have seen that the Ministers for Labour are changing but, unfortunately, the impending of pensioners continues. Mr Hatzidakis, as a new Minister, has simply once again issued the same circular as Mr Brutsis had issued, obviously continuing the same failed path that simply comes to intensify rather than resolve this great social problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, my colleague. Happy birthday to me, ladies and gentlemen, and a good year to have! I would like to inform you that some colleagues are missing for information at the Ministry of National Defence. So I will give the floor now to Mr. Villardo on behalf of the Greek Solution. I hope some of them will come, or we'll continue from the list otherwise. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u111	Thank you very much, Madam President. I would also like to wish the Minister for his new duties a good year to everyone. Greek successes, however, need no failures. We will now start by the fact that the modernisation and effectiveness of a country's public sector are extremely important factors in relation to the potential for its sustainable development. Much more with regard to Greece, which has been submerged for over ten years now in a crisis unprecedented, in a crisis which is worsening rather than improving, based on the explosive rise in its twin deficits, as well as the launching of both the public and its "red" private debt at levels that are actually known to be in world history. In this respect, we are honestly unable to understand the government's allegations, according to which Greece is not at risk of derailment, since it cannot consider the budget deficit to be derailed, about EUR 20 billion or the general government's debt rise to at least 208% of GDP and central over 227% of GDP, 100% more than 2009. Even more, it cannot derail and divert GDP by 20 billion euros in 2020, when it has supported the economy with EUR 24 billion in its own statements, which means that the recession would have reached, in fact, in the stratosphere without these 24 billion euros, money, of course, which has not been borrowed and will be called back in multiplier terms either by increasing taxes or by reducing wages and pensions or by combining both after being properly invested, allowing them to be repaid, i.e. with a new memorandum that the government calls it, with the possibility of being accompanied by a new loan contract higher than ever, since Greece is certainly in a more tripartite position than in all previous years, much more than in 2010. In order to understand the importance of an effective government in developing a state, we will be referring to a study on China, the first of which was that its development was hindered by external factors, particularly by its public system, which, in order to function effectively, should ensure the recruitment of well-trained, skilled, non-existent and productive people, along with the adoption of a long-term stability policy. In simple terms, according to the study, the existence of functional institutions was the cause of China's rise before the Industrial Revolution, while the corrosion of the institutions later led to its fall, its stasis after the 1800s, when all the other countries developed rapidly. At the same time, researchers have documented the importance of its government in terms of China's explosive development in recent decades, where the government has changed fundamentally, especially since 1949: Firstly, it was enthusiastic about its industrial development. Secondly, it expanded the recruitment base to the State by entering skilled executives outside the framework of the customer state, which ceased to exist. Finally, it greatly increased the productivity of the public, which it considered to be the most important pillar of its development. These, precisely, should also be launched by Greece, with real importance for the efficient functioning of the public sector, which is certainly not achieved by the existence of independent authorities, where from five provided for in the Constitution has been launched on thirty-two. In this regard, with the exception of the AIA which, in fact, is extremely disgraceful to us - is controlled by creditors, because its task is to collect taxes, all the other authorities are, in fact, supposedly independent, since they are controlled by the government that places its own people in the framework of the client state that lives and reigns. In addition, they cost taxpayers huge sums, such as the example of the National Broadcasting Council, which in 2019 its twenty-eight members were paid up with EUR 1.679 000, i.e. an average of EUR 5 000 per person per month, which we all paid for, for a job that under no circumstances does well, judging, among other things, the one-sale of the media on behalf of the government. The APRC now is one of the five independent authorities provided for in the Constitution, with the aim of guaranteeing sovereignty in the public sector. Just here and specifically in Article 4 of the bill, our questions were as follows: Since the AACC has been set up for the selection of staff by improper procedures, why is it only 2/5 of the respective committee? Why not be solely responsible for selecting persons in positions of responsibility since they were established solely for this reason? After we now agree with Article 6 on the quota for the recruitment of disabled people in the public sector, and also with 13 on specific rates of cover for laundry, retired persons, etc., we believe that more weight is given to all procedures of the ADP than to social or other criteria of a customer state, such as degrees and additional qualifications. In view of the great importance that is attached to the interview, with which we have enormous objections because of its subjectivity, as well as the much lesser experience of previous professional experience and additional qualifications, although we have heard that they will be improved, we do not think that this promotes the desired efficiency of the public, without which Greece is doomed. After all, our main objective as a party is the return of the six hundred thousand young people who were forced to leave their homeland, due to the overcompensation of the country from New Democracy for the six years 2004-2009, the mismanagement of the crisis of 2010 by the PASOK which led us to the memorials and which culminated in the overthrow of Mr. Papandreou from Mr. Venizelos, the bankruptcy of 2012 with the signature of the destructive PSI, again by the co-operation of PASOK, as well as the betrayal of SYRIZA in 2015. For these young people and especially for the thousands with qualifications of study, the pan-Hellenic ASA competition may seem worthwhile. However, due to the interview procedure, the low mobilisation of previous professional experience and additional qualifications are not at all, and it describes in advance who will be promoted by the customer state, that is, by the gangrene that is sucking off the Greeks and which has been preventing the progress of our country in recent decades. However, we wonder how it is possible for the government to claim that it is liberal when it continues to swell the public, among other things, with post-convicted officials who take over irresponsiblely. In any case, the structure and organisation of the AACC is highly governing, although, as we have said, we agree with its social dimension, but it must not be at the expense of the effectiveness of the public, which Greece has a direct and absolute need. However, the fact that any criminal and disciplinary misconduct of its members will be automatically controlled internally, which means that if there are any complaints, it will be investigated and if it is unreasonable to refer it to the committee responsible, which will choose when it will decide, finds us completely against us, since it seems clear that any criminal offences will remain in the drawers until their limitations, as is the case with many other cases. In conclusion, we would like to emphasise once again that the Greek Solution believes in the mixed economy and the genuinely free market, unlike the New Democracy which is intervening in ways that are literally unacceptable. A recent example is the setting of a minimum redemption price for bankrupt enterprises, obviously due to its failure to sell the Scaramaga shipyards. What does this have to do with the free economy? The Greek Solution also believes in limiting globalisation and uncontrolled migratory flows, including because they create unfair competition with the countries of cheap labour. In addition, they maintain the wages of workers in the West as a result of increasing labour supply, while creating multicultural societies with a view to easier control by domestic and foreign elites. The Greek Solution is also in favour of the nation-state, since it only guarantees the functioning of democracy for the benefit of the majority, while it considers that the middle-class that is the foundations of democracy is once again put in the worst way possible of the government's measures, from the successive "keys" of the economy without any plan, which will lead to the closure of thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises that have managed to survive the legacy of the Memorandums. They will also lead to the rise of unemployment and even greater poverty in our country, which must regain its national sovereignty and cease to be governed by Germany as its debt colony. However, we stress the first day of our entry into the House that a direct change in our failed economic and tourist model is needed, as well as the creation of an effective public, which is certainly not promoted by bills such as today. Finally, thank you very much, wishing again a good year, with health and optimism for all. We would certainly be much more optimistic if we celebrated the two hundred years since the Revolution in 1821 and not under German occupation, which is possible but requires similar sacrifices with those of our ancestors, as well as unwilling governments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u112	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. The Minister for the Interior now has the floor for some legislative improvements. Immediately afterwards, Mrs Pulou will speak from SYRIZA and Mr Zebbles from New Democracy. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, Madam President. We are putting forward legislative improvements which, in fact, regulate two issues. Firstly, the possibility of renewal and extension of contracts, not only of the technical staff working in ODA, but also of the administrative staff, is offered. It's about twenty-four people. There is already the possibility of this renewal for technical staff within the law. First of all, this possibility of renewing technical staff is perfectly reasonable, because the ODA has ongoing contracts and therefore this staff need to remain because it has knowledge. They are twenty-four administrative staff. We also believe that it is reasonable to allow these twenty-four to be extended. Secondly, we join the mobilised areas and the Kozani Regional Unit. The Regional Unit of Florin and Grevenes is already in place. It is, anyway, a affected area because of the transition. In any case, Western Macedonia has a very large unemployment rate. We think it is right and fair to put Kozani in this privileged molecules in this region. These are the legislative improvements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u114	Thank you very much, too. Minister, you have the floor too. For legislative improvements?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am before the National Representation to support the amendment of the Ministry of Justice. The proposed regulation, which I think you have already considered, extends until 31-1-2021 the deadline for the submission of applications for redefinition provided for in paragraph 1 of Article 4d of Law No 3869/2010, as added to Article 1 of Law No 4745/2020, which expires on 15-1-2021. This extension is necessary in order to avoid adverse effects on the part of the debtors, who may not have had the necessary time to be sufficiently informed about the operation of the platform and, of course, to use it. I want, however, before I actually leave this possibility of my speech, to give an answer to Mrs Ahtsoglu's announcement yesterday in relation to the deadlines laid down in No 4745/2020, which are extended by today's amendment that I have just presented to this House by 31-1-2021, for those who, of course, had submitted an initial application - because at some point we have to say things by their name - until 31-12/2014. And I owe this answer, because Mrs Ahtsioglou claimed - and, unfortunately, around this road followed it and Mr Xanthopoulou - that more than thirty-five thousand first homes are threatened by auctioning. Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, do you really know what you are talking about? Do you know what the reality is? And I say that, because Mrs Ahtsioglu may not know financially, because he is legal as far as I know, but let us not forget the courtesy. And I am not saying this because over the days of the SYRIZA government we had more than twenty-five thousand auctions, nor because I had answered Mr Xanthopoulou, the responsible Justice Department of SYRIZA, that although and if we have to give any extension to ensure the rights of our weakest fellow citizens, we will do so - in other words, we have predicted and said so much earlier - but I say this, unfortunately, you have spoken about thirty-five thousand auctions, and you know that the end date for the thirty-seven thousand cases - because that is not the 15th of January, but 31 May. Who do you want to make fun of? So, is it possible for the party of Officerial Response to claim something that has nothing to do with reality? On 15 January, ladies and gentlemen, it was only the deadline for those who had submitted an initial application before 2015, not the others. Every 15 days there is a deadline for six months from now on. I want to be very clear. I do not believe that your colleague, Mrs Ahtsoglou, knows neither the legal nor the Katseli law. In fact, I think that all this time, he may have learned financially as well. But there is something here that I think at some point we should stop repeating as a basic practice either of political controversy or of public dialogue. I believe, personally, that there is a breakthrough of make news, that you are consciously investing in a micropolitic and in the terror of citizens and public opinion. Because if you want to talk to the truth of the numbers, I will tell you that of the thirty-seven thousand debtors we had, more than twenty-thousand borrowers have already entered the platform to submit the request for redefinition. And all this is happening in a very difficult period, during the pandemic period, Lockdown, a process that is unprecedented and for the first time applies. And, of course, I will tell you and I will give you, in the minutes, the actual statistics that are derived from the platform, that more than six thousand three hundred applications have been completed and notified by the peace courts concerned. In detail, therefore, to speak with real elements and to stop - I repeat - this micro-political approach to a question that the political system really had to agree with, I quote: Twenty-seven hundred and fifty-seven single LNGs have entered the electronic platform, from the total of thirty-seven thousand calculated as debts. Of these eighteen thousand four hundred fifty-six unique VDUs have been placed on the electronic platform, fourteen thousand nine hundred nineteen unique VDUs have authorised a proxy lawyer. Twenty-five thousand ninety-four redefinition applications have been created, of which eight thousand eighty-five applications are at the initial stage of completing an application, the four thousand eighty-eighty redefinition applications have been definitively submitted by the proxy, while the two thousand four hundred twenty-four redefinition applications have been completed by the peace hearings and have been notified to the parties. Of course, it will be estimated that some five thousand nine hundred five applications have been cancelled, because most of them have time in front of them to see it, to study it and to make their application right. But you know, ladies and gentlemen, with the knowledge of the Officerial Vice-President's party that more than twenty thousand accounts have been created on the platform of the Special Secretariat for Private Debt Management to redefined the requests of the Katseli Act, of the thirty-seven thousand debtors - who say it is about - to speak of thirty-five thousand auctions, if it is not a political offense, I would say to you that it is a targeted attempt to mislead the public. I say this - and I repeat - because there are official figures which do not have any question at all. I, look, will not stay in SYRIZA's late interest in remembering vulnerable fellow citizens, while not voting for Law 3869/2010. I will tell you, however, that the government will continue to take decisions on the basis of protecting our weakest economic fellow citizens. In addition, this is also the aim of today's amendment, which provides the necessary time for lawyers, in order to become more familiar with the operation of the platform and to be able to protect the rights of every borrower. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u116	Thank you, too, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u117	Madam President, I would like the floor for two minutes on what the Minister said about the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u118	Do you want to talk about the amendment? Because you will have the floor immediately after two colleagues to answer the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u119	For the amendment!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u120	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u121	Mr. Chiara, look, really, you decided to make an impressive bike for 2021. You are the Minister who has legislated - along with the government - on this suffocating date for thousands of people who in two days would no longer have their home in the pandemic. And you come two days before the end of the suffocating period that you have legislated - which we have told you since the first moment - to modify this option, which almost cost so many people. And instead of coming here with modesty and humility and saying 'we were wrong, you were right to tell us at the first time that you were not coming out of these dates, you were right to tell us that within the pandemic you cannot care for the Mitsotakis Government to be how people will lose their homes' and instead of being modest and humility to say 'I ask for an amendment on 13 January that the deadline for 15 January does not apply', you come here with a lot of nerve and anti-parliamentary practice not to talk about this amendment and ask for apologies for the stress you have caused so many thousands of people, but say what you said about Ms. Achtsioglou and the announcement made yesterday on behalf of the Anti-Population Officer and that she actually forced you to come here today with tail in the eyes and to table this amendment. This is not a way of governing the country, Mr. Chiara. And if you want to be so strict with the Opposition, first be strict with yourself! Inspire yourself for 15 January, you come here two 24 hours before you have an amendment to change it, you do not see to it what happens in the next 15 days, Mr Ciara! What's gonna happen? What about cases ending 15 days after 15 January, thirty days after 15 January, as you said until May? Nothing for now! The stress and greed over the heads of all these thousands of families! Well, instead of coming here, you can do as low a flight as you can, let's not get you hampered, instead of apologizing and apologise to these people, you can also get your tongue out! Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u123	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u124	Mrs Liikanouli has asked for the floor. Listen to Mrs. Liikali, Mr. Minister, why do I imagine she wants to speak and answer immediately afterwards? Here you go, Mrs. Liikali, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, we understand the advisability of this provision, as we can see and that this has to come, as we understand and that you are right to come and table this amendment, because it is a need to which we must all respond. So that we do not use unnecessary verbalism and who said it first - because I think that Parliament's level goes beyond the level of kindergarten - I have the feeling that you should tell us, Minister, if this fortnight, which you put from 15-1 to 31-1, that is to say the day after tomorrow, is capable of serving all these accumulated assumptions that you know exist. And because the Change Movement has repeatedly raised the matter to you both in writing and with questions and with memorials and with references - and I imagine you will confirm it in your denture - what we are interested in is ending the matter and serving the world. We do not think that it is the subject of opposition and ambiguity and of extreme tireless cohort. But, in any case, we think that we should ask at least the lawyers, Mr Minister - you who see these carefully and I know that you are so - to see them carefully because they are talking about July. And when you from 15/1 go 31/1 and don't hear that the areas of justice, the lawyers, the trade unionists, people who are organized in collectives and who are dealing with this particular problem tell you July, is what we're doing here today not really enough? That's the question of ours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, too. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u127	Mr Ragossi, I am sorry to tell you, or you have no idea about Mr.4745, or you have not heard any of what I told you earlier. Do you know when the platform is open and can electronically be submitted? From the beginning of December! What three days are you talking about? Do you know what we're talking about? Have you perceived or simply in a rhetorical opposition you can say what you are saying, allegedly showing you're right?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u128	You didn't hear! How much do we have today?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u129	Do you know, Mr Ragosi, that the electronic platform is open and that there is no need for any special procedure in order for someone to enter and integrate themselves? Do you know that in order to collect supporting documents there is a room for another sixty days? Do you know these things? You come and say some things and it's not just that you show your total ignorance of the substance, but you're talking about something that doesn't apply, it doesn't exist. However, in any case, to be very serious, when I give you specific figures which have been tabled in the Minutes and you can have them in your hands at all times and at all times, I am sure you will find that at least when the first stage of January 15 had entered twenty thousand interested persons from the thirty-seven thousand and the end of May, the whole procedure is more successful. Don't you understand that? Do you not realize that we are at a point where more than six and a half thousand cases have been identified? Do even the proportional reduction to understand what has happened and what has not happened. In addition to all that, you know how to come and to'swing the finger' for a commitment he made in a previous year to the European institutions, if it does not constitute hypocrisy, at least it is an attempt to direct public opinion elsewhere.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u130	You're not bored...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u131	Mr. Zachariadis, have you forgotten who made a commitment to this? Haven't I given it to you in the Minutes? Wasn't it your government that said it would clear all the pending cases of Katseli law in 2021? Did you do anything for a year and a half that you've been in the government since? It's the famous mockery! We always agree with what we are asked for and when it comes to doing something else or "we" indifferently. If this is a serious and dignified policy towards Greek citizens and Greek society, I think we are all in a position to judge it. To have a state that has been outstanding since 2014 - take note - which is identified as being tried after 2030 and talking about the rule of law in a European country, I think it is a debate that has absolutely no margin for different views. In addition, did you not hear in public consultation that the entities represented by the borrowers themselves and not by representatives, by themselves, said: ‘Help us to get rid of this reality of Katseli’? Haven't you even heard of that? Do you not want us to end this whole process which, unfortunately, has created so many and great loose ends, leaving locked people, who are certainly entitled to protection, but on the other hand, allowing people to hide in it without being entitled to it? This whole debate would have a value if the figures themselves could confirm you. Once again you are faced with the very reality which, unfortunately, is very different from the one you hoped for. Look at the numbers. I've filed it, Mr. Ragosi, in the Minutes. If you don't understand them, I'll come and explain them to you. There's no problem, you know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u132	If that's the case, why did you bring the amendment now?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u133	Mr. Comrade, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u134	You have realised that I am talking about a single extension of time, which concerns the first cycle until 15 January. The reason why this extension comes...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u135	Why did you bring in this extension?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u136	Mr. Comrade, let the Minister speak to finish the debate. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u137	Who gave extensions continuously and repeated himself is recorded and even in such an emphatic way that you can't imagine. So we need to understand: The figures not only satisfy us about who has been on the platform and how many thousands of applications have been met, but I assure you that we are out of the last slight possibility, precisely because we are at the top of the pandemic, precisely because this is a process that most of the legal world has taken time to understand it, that we do not allow any room for any of our fellow citizens to remain unprotected. What I'm telling you is final, it's clear. Here we are, and we'll see you again.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u138	Why did you bring this amendment now?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u139	The point is, at some point, one must also show braveness. When he sees a plan succeeds - and that is proof of it by numbers - he must recognise it and say that we have rightly moved there and we have taken the concrete steps. But my view is - and I am sorry to say it - that in your culture and logic such an assumption never exists.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u140	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u141	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u142	Madam Colleague, would you like to place yourself on the amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u143	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u144	You have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, Madam President. Because the Minister said that he is fully satisfied with the number of applications for redefinition, I will speak with number at the moment. In all forty thousand pending cases, twenty thousand have received temporary protection, and four and a half thousand applications have been made. Why? This is due to the operational problems of the platform itself and to the fact that the mortgages, property registers, taxes, all the relevant services, like the banks, of which all these people must now collect the documents. And you're telling us you're satisfied with that percentage? It's a tragic number. In fact, given that other judicial deadlines have been suspended, the extrajudicial bankruptcy has now been extended until May, if I remember correctly, you have to extend further, in order to facilitate these people. Whether you have come two days before the deadline expires, we invite you to give a reasonable extension, so that these people, given the malfunctions that exist through this juncture, can collect all these documents. Unfortunately, the figures, as you say, are not at all satisfactory, are tragic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u146	Thank you, too. Minister, you will answer, I imagine.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u147	Yes, Madam President. Mrs Adamopoulou, at least you know the law very well and you have proved it to me too many times. And, indeed, I wonder how you approach this issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u148	(Don't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u149	The numbers, if you haven't heard from me, I'll ask you to take them from the secretariat. They've been filed in the Minutes. So you can see them officially. These are the numbers that arise from the specific platform of the Private Debt Management Secretariat. They're not my numbers, I didn't invent them, I didn't wake up one morning, and I filled out some numbers. It is something that - I repeat - comes in the most objective way. There is a general assumption that the pending cases of the Katseli Act that need to be identified through this platform involved a number of around thirty-seven thousand interested parties. Right now that we're talking about, we're in the first phase. This is the first time the platform has been opened, which is essentially the first phase to be completed on 15 January. Think more than twenty thousand people have entered. Don't you say that's a good thing?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u150	Definitive applications, how many have been made?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u151	Every 15 days in reality we are increasing a semester from 2015 onwards. In other words, for the end of January the cases relating to the end of June 2015 should be closed. On 15 February, they will have to close - I am trying to say all this, to understand all the cases that concern them by the end of 2015, so that we can come to 31 May. That is where one really closes the possibility of entering the platform. Why did we do that? On the one hand, so that there is no accumulation of all the parties involved over a certain period of time, on the other hand there is also the possibility of processing all the data. Once again, we must understand this: when we talk about registration and entry into the platform, we are not talking about compulsory presentation of supporting documents. When these cases are actually finalised by the pacifist courts, there are another sixty days. Is that understood? Do you understand? We are talking at the moment about an issue which I very much fear is not understood by most of my colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u152	How many final applications?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u153	So we are not talking either about a risk of losing one's home for two or three days, as Mr Ragus said, nor about any of this. We are talking about a very specific process that is being done electronically. So it wasn't a pandemic thing. It wasn't a matter - how am I supposed to say it? - special conditions which our country and our society have been living in for this time. Of course, you realise that, in order for things to go ahead, we will be able to speed up cases pending for six to seven years, some time we have to take steps. With that logic, everything stays the way it is, nothing moves. It's probably a desire of some of you. We therefore do not believe in this policy. We believe that we must especially support our weak and vulnerable fellow citizens. That is why we are doing all these steps, taking all the care and giving every possible protection to the people who deserve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u154	Madam President, I would like to ask one question. The Minister must answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u155	Mr Colleague, we will not have a debate between the Minister and the parliamentary representative. Please! I gave you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u156	It must not be misinformed by Parliament...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u157	No, the conversation's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u158	Mr. Comrade, please. Respect the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u159	How many final applications? It's four and a half thousand...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u160	Minister, you will not answer, please. You won't answer. We're not having a conversation like that. It cannot be the debate between the parliamentary representative of the SYRIZA and the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u161	Are you a protector of the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u162	I'm not a protector, I'm a president of all Parliament. Please. He answered you twice.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u163	When did he answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u164	Mr Colleague, you will have the floor after two colleagues. You'll go up to the Step and talk. Mrs Pulou has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u165	I said it's over six and a half thousand...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u166	And before you said twenty thousand. Are you lying?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u167	Mr. Comrade, please, first let's wear your mask.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u168	Do you understand what you're doing?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u169	Mr Colleague, this is a disgrace to what you are doing right now. You create sights and impressions. It's a disgrace to you! I gave you the floor twice by way of derogation from the Rules of Procedure and you know that. You're very welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u170	Madam President, I just want the floor for the procedure. Mr. Ragus speaks five minutes without the mask.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u171	That's what I told him right now and he didn't hear.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u172	And it's at least disrespectful to do that by whispering and speaking to us, Mr. Ragosi.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u173	Madam President, he was made aware of it and did not listen to it. Listen, ladies and gentlemen, there is a procedure in Parliament and I would ask you, Mr Ragosi, not to say what you said before, that I support the Minister. Please very much. It does not honor you as parliamentarians either. You create impressions, precisely because there is television and nothing else. Look, I gave you the floor twice by way of derogation. The Minister answered you and you'll have the floor in a few minutes from the Step. It's your turn and you know it. You'll have all the time to talk. Don't do this again, please, while I preside. I beg you!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u174	The Minister will be gone.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u175	The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u176	As a parliamentary representative, I would like to respect Members and expect Members to speak and what has happened in Parliament throughout the entire time only to speak whenever they want to, at some point it has to be checked. There are colleagues who are waiting. But I take the floor for thirty seconds because such inaccuracies cannot be heard. My colleague, Mr Ragosi, referred to how many of those who have been provisionally ordered have been applied and you say that they are final. You don't understand the matter. The applications are thirty-seven thousand of whom have gone over twenty, and the colleague who is aware of is referring to a specific issue: from those who have obtained a temporary order, how many have they done. And you said how many make definitive applications.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u177	It's still a few.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u178	Yeah, but that's what I'm saying. Mr. Raguss says about final applications. He still thinks Mr Ragousse, and resents the Minister, that the final applications made are six and a half thousand. It's different! Do you understand that now, Mr. Ragossi? It's over twenty thousand applications. Those who were temporary orders are six and a half thousand. That's what the Minister told you. That is what the honourable Member has said and do not try to misinform Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u179	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Mrs. Pulu has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u180	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is so credible and serious that the performance of the Mitsotakis Government, which, from the committee to the Plenary Assembly, broke through the deformation of Mr Theodorikos and the upgrading to the Ministry of Interior of Voridis in a reform that achieved two things: to keep in their chairs all the failed ministers responsible for the disastrous management of the pandemic in the Ministry of Health, Education and Development and to strengthen the right-wing wing of the party, which the Prime Minister himself is now hostage to. We wonder how many more ministers who would vote Trump with both hands as Mr. Georgiadis said or who were years trying to open a branch of "Leenism" in Greece, such as Mr. Voridis, fits into his government shape. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Voridis has been commissioned to do his promise that ideological and institutional mechanisms will be built up by the Government of New Democracy in order to keep the Left out of power forever. This is the Vorides doctrine of which we expect developments. Today, the bill concluded by Mr. Voridis is part of the general government framework of the New Democracy, which attempts: firstly, at a symbolic level to eradicate from collective memory the law of Peponis, with a hypothesis of its own, as the Minister, atypical codification, the most important reform of the public administration in Transmigration, as the Government of SYRIZA strengthened it with Law 4590/19 and others, which has a timeless resonance on Greek society. Secondly, on the basis of the bill, the government puts a vulgar trade of hope ahead of the next poll, aimed at the vast pool of unemployed and even many young scientists. Through the promise of a big contest in 2022 or 2023, the government plans to hold thousands of candidates hostage. Because nothing guarantees that even if the Mitsotakis Government does the competitions, it will finally appoint the successful ones. The Greek people, however, do not forget that the SYRIZA government should have come, in order to appoint the successors of the old AACS competitions in 1998 and 2008, who also called for their justice. Third and most important objective of the bill is the perpetuation of a weak public administration sent exclusively by fixed-term workers and a fixed-project workers, who must pass through the New Democracy Parliamentary and Ministerial Offices, to be registered as heirs to acquire or retain their position. How can we believe you, gentlemen of the government, when you say you want a strong public administration and a modern state? Aren't you the ones who claim from the troika the glory of the dismissals of civil servants, who build the myth of the Greek state with most of the civil servants in Europe? The Prime Minister himself recently threatened to reinstate rule one to five in the public sector and which he probably has secretly imposed the rule one to ten or fifteen. Gentlemen of the government, you do not believe in a strong and independent public administration. You do not believe in a public administration capable of contributing to the country's productive reconstruction. On the contrary, you believe in a client state, costing behind private interests which you have been diligently serving for eighteen months with a blue-child mechanism, challenging both the ADP and the single mobility system. Let us now see how the ministers consistent in their clientele ideology acted in the respective ministries by implementing this ideology. Mr. Vorides as the first teacher in the Ministry of Rural Development, gave the slogan of the state's leash from the party yearbook with the possibility of hiring staff to the two-month term by way of derogation from Article 21 of the Peponi Law and any other general or special provision. The AACC cannot even object to a check on the legality of the tables. Similarly, Mr Chrysochoidis appointed rusphetologically a thousand five hundred special guards and a thousand two-seven border guards. Mr Theodorikos appointed dozens of officials without any consultation with the CEDEFOP, another 300 seventy members of the Asylum Service. In the same customer logic, the recruitments of a hundred ninety - two were made in the General Secretariat of Civil Protection and Thousands and Seventy also in the EGE. As for the posters, the government breaks one record after another. It started with a thousand seven hundred in July 2019 for the needs of the state of staff and reached three thousand in October 2020. Finally, the choice of administrations in the ministries was made in a similar way. And, of course, we do not forget the fiasco of party appointments in the administrations of hospitals by Mr. Kikilias, who even forced government newspapers to react, in the Directorates of Education by Mrs. Kerameos, the Solidarity Fund of the Ministry of Culture and the Central Archaeological Council by Mrs. Mendoni. And the list doesn't end. This is how the ministers acted, and of course they were rewarded by Mr Mitsotakis on the eve of their government chairs. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, the mortal danger of the pandemic did not shake the government to make the necessary recruitments to health, education, self-government, if they had been made, would have saved lives and property of our fellow people. That's enough of the fake applause. So the celebrations of the government and of the Prime Minister himself, that the bill is supposedly a great reform, immediately collapsed from the speech of the relevant Minister, Mr Voridis, in his first appearance in the House, speaking of informal codification. Written tenders, recruitment planning, consolidated notices, simplification and simplification of procedures already exist in the new provisions on criteria and on modulation of recruitment despite the legislative improvements that the Minister has said he will accept - there remain quite a lot of dark points, but also weakness in the preparation and implementation of the tenders. The own-initiative search for documents has been completely forgotten, while the need to adopt numerous regulatory and enforcement decisions make the process difficult and time-consuming. Also, there is no lack of private interest - my old-fashioned art - from the back door, through the setting up of numerous committees involving experts. Finally, the presence of the representatives of self-government is lacking once again, a legacy of neglect by Mr Theodorikos. The CEDEFOP's proposals for support for the immediate completion of recruitment, the addition of tracking criteria and its involvement in the IARC's organs have once again remained undemanded. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is clearly another communication game of the government, trying to throw ash in the eyes of the citizens. It is a tool for the abundance of public administration and the perpetuation of customer practices in the party state of the right. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u181	Thank you, my colleague. Mr Zebplis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u182	Wish me a good year, with the expectation in 2021 to mark the new hope for the place. This is a year when our country is celebrating two hundred years of national life at this critical time, and this is a unique opportunity to reflect. That is why the anniversary activities should not only have a monumental use, but above all a creative and dynamic character, in order to tackle inherent weaknesses and flaws as a nation. Thus, in the two hundred years since regeneration, it would not be an exaggeration to claim that there has always been an endless conflict between the reformist forces seeking the country's modernisation and Europeanisation and the forces of demagogy and plight. This was a struggle in society, in the political system, but also within the parties themselves, in which there were battles of retardants with forces sometimes irresistible, which unresponsively cultivated nepotism and customer relations. It was this way that the story of Anastassis Peponis was written, when in December 1994 he had to resign from the position of the Minister of Presidency in order to protect a new and hopeful institution that he established. This is usually the fate of the reformists. It is well known that in our country we are in favour of reforms in words but hostile to their implementation, particularly when they are affected by established interests. So if, in the context of this national reflection, we wanted to take on board some flagship areas in the state and society, we would definitely be referring to the improper system by which the pan-Hellenic examinations are conducted and to the objective system of selection of staff introduced by Law 2190. There is no doubt that both serve the principles of transparency and equitableness without any doubt. If we should now and in a few words describe the philosophy of the draft law under discussion, we would simply say that it is based on these two pillars of the tested and reliable systems in order to achieve a system of selection of staff that ensures dignity, while at the same time improving the productivity of the public sector. For it is true that, from 1994 until now, a lot of water has flowed into the groove of history, and it is clear that the Peponnes Act must also be adapted to a new environment, what the prevalent fourth industrial revolution is shaping. Besides, modern science currents are harmonized and university academic curricula, as should be the case with the staff selection proxies. Furthermore, the age of information, which is distinguished for the gratuitous velocity of the 5G, also requires a modern and effective institution that faces the difficulties of the past through the use of new technologies. Because the fact is that time-consuming and multi-fashioned processes have led to systematic undermining of the institution. Thus, even for positions covering fixed and continuous needs, a fixed-term contractor was chosen by the loose procedures of the AACC, which, after continuous renewal contracts, ensured a special moleculation status in the tenders by circumventing the procedure under Law 2190. This emerges - and is the answer to the previous speaker of SYRIZA, Mrs Pulou - not what I am going to say, or will claim or counter, but from the latest reports from the AACC for the years 2018 and 2019, which describe a recruitment procedure from the window or from the back door if you prefer, simulation, that is, by means of the excessive moleculosis of contractors who were hired with the limited control of the AACC. And that, unfortunately, wasn't the exception. It was the rule. It was the well-known history of the political hostage of the contractors, which led to partyism and anxiety. SYRIZA, in the context of this unresolved customer and rospheric tactics, the number of contractors increased excessively. Of course, unworthiness in recruitment, lack of excellence, intolerance in evaluation and lack of training, in combination with perpetuality, have led to favorableism and a counterproductive public. This policy of the previous government, as well as the choice of personnel solely by mobilisation and without competitions, led to a levelling-up and a minor effort. This was the print that SYRIZA left in the public administration, where it worked just like the lawn haircut machine, that is, it leveled everything down. There is no doubt, ladies and gentlemen, that Law 2190 is one of the most multimodal laws of the Greek state. Since 1994 the law of Peponnes has been amended forty times, providing for exceptions and different treatment of candidates. Most of the time it has been amended, without even asking the independent authority, and this is a significant difference with this draft law which seeks to strengthen, strengthen and broaden the AACC. In fact, it attempts to revive the AACC, first of all by updating its institutional framework, as they now emerge after successive amendments of the law serious problems of interpretation and lack of consistency of its provisions. Most importantly, however, because at the heart of the arrangements of the new draft law there is the combination of the single recruitment planning with a central process of selecting staff, which will be carried out through a written full-scale tender of knowledge, skills and professional behaviour. This is how the existing institutional framework is fragmented, and within this framework there are thirty different provisions which each are concerned with a different category of public recruitment, with considerable differences in procedure and selection criteria. Furthermore, we must point out that in recent years 95% - 99% of the recruitments to regular staff were covered by the molecules system and only the remaining 1% -5% by written invitation. These issues are dealt with successfully in this draft law, which may not be recorded as flagrant reform, but will be the precursor of a peaceful revolution in public administration, because it opens the way for a new generation of worthy and capable people to go to their place, to form a different future for their homeland, building a modern and modern state, a state that is citizens-friendly, and it is certain that this will also contribute catalysts to the new Minister, Macis Vorides, to whom I wish good success in his new duties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u183	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. The SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, Mr Ioannis Ragus, has the floor now. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u184	Is there a Minister in the Chamber, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u185	The Minister's coming back. And you were Minister of State and were out of the Chamber for certain reasons.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u186	So we cannot continue without a Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u187	We will, then, wait for the Minister to return from where he went.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u188	Mandatory. As a meeting cannot take place without a Minister. I don't know if this gentleman is a State Secretary. We don't know the Undersecretaries.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u189	The Minister's coming.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u190	Good! You believe in the neutrality of the state, Mr. Voridis, as long as it's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u191	That is the meaning of'skills'.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u192	You saw, the body language answered correctly and honestly. You say - in order not to repeat what our colleagues, our rapporteur, Mr Zachariadis and Members of all the parties in the opposition, have already said - that a central idea of this bill, which has been described as a great reform, but I do not know whether Mr Mitsotakis will come to defend it - we will see - is this written competition. Mr. Voridis, if you'd like, keep notes. For someone who knows how to read behind lines and who has basic experience, especially from legislation on recruitment, you have predicted that there will be a central examination committee that will put the matter on the table. I am referring to Rule 11. You have predicted that in this Central Examination Committee the members of the IAS will be a minority. Therefore, this Central Committee of Examinations will not consist solely of members of the AACC or majority of members of the AACC, i.e. members independent of having sworn and held a criminal and administrative responsibility to respect independence in their operation. Therefore, you are considering a written tender to be conducted by the Central Examination Committee, where the AACC will be a minority, and this Central Committee will deal with the issues and be set up by a decision, not by the Plenary Assembly, but by a decision of the Plenary Assembly. Mr. Voridis, extrajudicial. Many times - remember a word I will tell you among others - in future you will invoke the very short time you have had to take up your duties until the day you put forward this bill here in plenary, to justify what you will see in the course of the process. The parentheses are closed. Centrally, therefore, an examination committee to be decided by the SACC's minor plenary session, i.e. a small body of the AACC rather than the whole Plenary Assembly of the AACC. And where one reads, one falls on this dreadful thing: for the bill and tomorrow's state law, that the first competition will take place in the third quarter of 2022. And one who just keeps an eye on what he reads: 'Well, they have been sitting now and they have determined...' - 'Now' is in 2020 that this bill was prepared - '...in the third quarter of 2022? Third quarter? Why not the second, why not the fourth? The third quarter.’; And you say, "How did this thing come about?" A little experience of being judging, you say, can't have accidentally entered. An unscrupulous legislative initiative would say that it would take place no later than 2022. Third quarter! Why has the third quarter come in, ladies and gentlemen? For, Mr Voridis, if you do not know and Mr Theodorikos has not told you, I - in July - who will have just passed from the third quarter that you have foreseen in the bill - will have completed the mandate of seventeen current members of the independent authority. Seventeen members of the IASC who currently make up the independent authority have a term of office ending in July 2022. And you come and define the realization - as is your intentions - of a firm and passive competition after the end of the mandate of these seventeen members. And as if that wasn't enough, Article 22 comes and what does it say to complete the setup? It says that no one will be able to object to the results. Where did that sound again? Based on what constitution? On the basis of what legal logic, legal philosophy against human rights, against constitutional rights, can you tell Greek citizens that "you will come, will you participate in a written competition and whatever comes into you, will you not be able to make any objections at all?" And to make sure, of course, that the result of the written competition does not escape the choice of people who want in a diabetic way in reality you have chosen beforehand, so you have also nullified the gravity of postgraduate. That is why you end up in this unthinkable state of 2021 now, the prediction that there will only be five molecules for the doctorate at a score that cumulatively will be 100 plus 25% or thirty-five different molecules that the interview can take in some cases. And as if not all of this were enough, when you are told - and my colleague Mr Kamines told you, whom I thank for his previous report - and for a public interview, you think they're telling you about something coming from Mars. Mr Voridis, if you had intended, in fact, to upgrade the institution of the interview and not to be the interview in the conscience of the Greeks - it also has the name 'blue' interview - a method for Rusphetological and customer recruitment, it already has this Parliament a few years ago, yes, it did - Mr Kamines said - what public interview means, what an interview means. It was Law 3839, which has already been mentioned, which provides that in the interview, it is for the selection of the heads to attend the other candidates and a representative of the AEDN. So there is one logic, there is a central objective in the actual organisation of a methodology to carry out a tender. At this point I would like to say something further, Mr Voridis, by giving you more opportunity as a government, if you want to prove that it is not the way it appears in the bill, to correct it until the end of the meeting. You are proposing Article 44, first paragraph, the decision by decision of the Conference of Presidents on the appointment of the members of the independent authority and, when you go to describe how the extension of 50% of the members whose term of office is to be extended - I repeat - when it ends, you do not mention the article of the Constitution and the Rule of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, which provides for an increased majority of 3/5, but at random by Article 44(2), omit any reference to the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the House and say: 'In a decision of the Conference of Presidents'. The Conference of Presidents to ask for and decide to extend members must obviously do so on the basis of the constitutional requirement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u193	A Conference that can violate the Constitution?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u194	I say what your law says, Mr. Voridis, you legislate. So, on the one hand, we have, on the other hand, as has repeatedly been said, the act, life and the state of your government for eighteen months. And since I have listened to you in committee too, Mr Voridis, I would like to ask you the next time you are even willing to oppose arguments, at least, that you do not say inaccurate, that you do not say half the truth, that you do not lie. Mr Voridis, you do have the opportunity at this time to say that you are the first to introduce the Mitsotakis Government, since the very first month of the government, this unacceptable provision for once and a year, that is to say, the possibility of the vets being continuously recruited outside the Ministry of Rural Development. So it is not true that 'it was necessary and we did so once' because you have legislated 'once and per year'. It's your signature here, Mr. Voridis, it's nobody else's. Secondly, you have no excuse, nor can you hide it, that, of course, on the basis of Law 2190 and all the modifications that have been made later, you could take exceptional veterinarians, with rapid two-month procedures that if you could extend this duration and then, on the basis of CSCE criteria, proceed to fixed-term contracts. To understand, however, now the burden of the political responsibility you have and of what you are bringing here to vote on, but also for what you have already achieved, even today, in this draft bill, a provision that all the other provisions that are present are dispersed, and that you have institutionalised or had been established in the past and that define recruitment procedures, are being abolished, is not there. When L.3812/2009 passed, Mr.Voridis, there were two explicit references, as well as in many other bills, that, once we have introduced this recruitment system, all other individual derogations or individual provisions that may have been introduced are abolished. You're the one who's not abolishing anything. You come here and say: 'We will do with this bill of fixed-term recruitment', but with the Ministry of Rural Development, which you were Minister, the recruitment will continue, since you do not abolish this provision, to be done in the same manner as you have already established by Parliament's decision on Mitsotakis Government. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll close, because there'll be time in my second speech, saying two more words. Mr Voridis, in Greece today there is a general question of democracy in our opinion, in essence, in the sense of the constant effort to limit pluralism, freedom of expression of the opposing opinion. Indeed, such a very serious issue of democracy emerged from yesterday's statements by Mr Mitsotakis, who took a stand and said that in the case of the NOVARTIS scandal there is no interference of policies, and there is already a politician against whom two politicians are still being prosecuted. There has never been - I do not remember any more obscene intervention by a Prime Minister in the work of justice - a more obscene effort literally to abolish justice in our country. But that's not all. It is also a generalised climate that now goes down to the base. The other day, a woman thought it necessary and considered that - that was her opinion - to criticise the fact that she considers that there is and has been political trade in charity by Mr Mitsotakis and wrote something on social media. Terrorism has come to her children, to her home, because she dared to express that opposite opinion. There are very serious developments and you will not avoid the information about them coming into the light of publicity. The role of the notorious PALANTIR, that of the extreme right-wing stalking colossus, is well known. Modern fraud is not done in terms of '61. Electoral lists are not affected. It is done by monitoring, controlling and finally manipulating the electorate by such "Great Brother". We have learned from them that your government is cooperating with them. We ask you to bring the material of the contracts you have signed with them and with 'CISCO'. Thirdly, what happened, Mr Voridis, the other day in the United States, the outrageous events in Capitol, than they did, took place in the name of their conviction, not that Biden is just the leftist and socialist of the Americans who should not let him rule, but in the context of their conviction that they defend their homeland, their history, their nation, which is at risk from their political opponents. These events in the United States were based on the formula that "we must do our impossible not to rule our opponent", that "we must do our utmost to prevent our political opponent from coming to the country's rule." And here I come to you personally. First of all, I would like to make a clarification. I respect your views, as much as I disagree with you, and I will say more: I prefer to say to Parliament and to society that there are politicians who want cynicism, you want to be clear, they say their opinion, no matter how extreme I see it, rather than some of your colleagues who prefer to spin and half. You have made statements, however, Mr Voridis, as the competent department of the interior of the New Democracy, which are of the utmost institutional and state importance. They are statements that interventions in the state and in the institutions must be made so that the Left does not govern the party, the progressive party, the government at the time and today deserveful opposition or your political opponent does not govern. I'm generalizing it. It's not a left-wing issue. But what is here, at this point, the very serious issue that arises? It is true, Mr Vorides, that, given all these statements you have not withdrawn or corrected, your Prime Minister has chosen you for Minister of the Interior. The Ministry of Interior is not any Ministry in matters of the preservation of democratic electoral procedures. He is the guardian of the democratic order and democratic process. For this reason, Mr Voridis, the institution of the Minister of the Interior is still in force. The institution of the Minister of Interior, even in 2019, was active, as in all years of post-population. Why? It is precisely because the Ministry of Interior is not any ministry and because it should not only be Caesar's wife honest, but also be honest. Not only must the New Democracy Party be a democratic party - and that is not what anyone is questioning - but it should also be seen. The Ministry of Interior should serve in terms of and convictions that do not want to spoil the state. But to say this on the right is like saying now a corn can pass, because that's what New Democracy wants, and that's what it always wanted during the post-multiple process, the plundering of the state. In any case, however, it is certain that in practice these beliefs are democratically incompatible with the Ministry of Interior. There is a democratic incompatibility. There is a fundamentally incompatible content of opinions that say that "we must do our utmost to prevent our opponents from ruling", "we are the nation", "we are our homeland, we are her soul and our opponents are not". It is incompatible with all these views and the position of the Minister of the Interior. And simply, Mr Voridis, hold on, in fact having the opportunity to fully revise all of these statements you have made incompatible with the role of the Minister of the Interior, that all you hear now is not the dilemma, it is the prologue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u195	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Now Mr. Mulkiotis has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u196	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I enter my position on the bill, I will also say on a subject that the plenary session of the lawyers has raised a matter and mentioned earlier by our rapporteur, Mrs Liikanou, but also by Mrs Adamopoulou. No reply was given by the Minister for Justice. I fear that the Minister will come again and ask for another extension. It wasn't understood. Another was the Minister of Justice, confronting the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative. Ladies and gentlemen, the government of the New Democracy, the bold, as it self-sufficiently calls itself, for the work of which the Prime Minister is alleged to be pleased before you speak well - well in 2021 he introduces another reform, in our view, falsely reformed in plenary. This time, a bill which is of particular political importance both for the purposes it serves and especially for the messages it sends to both Greek society, but especially for the new generation in relation to the institution of recruitment in the Greek State. Because in particular, at a time when we are going through, a transitional period which, if anything, is characterised by insecurity, instability and uncertainty in all the manifestations of life, topics, Minister, which relate to the integrity and transparency of staffing with human resources in public administration and the wider public sector, concerns public opinion, as they form the social perceptions and practices for relations between the State and the political system with citizens. The traditional pathogen of the system of loots, known as the spoil system of nominations in the public, as inherited from the time of the Bulgarians and Deligiannis - to remember them too - followed by almost all the governments overthrown the pioneering reform of PASOK by Law 2190/1994 of the well-known Anastasios Peponnese law, the law that the New Democracy voted against, leaving and denounced him from plenary. So the APRC has our own print, it has been institutionalised in our own government period, in such a well-established way that everyone, with the aim of a worthwhile, transparent and objective system of recruitment to the public, against the heterocracy and the customer system. Moreover, the extension and extension of this law to the general public sector was done by Law 2527/1997 by Alekos Papadopoulos - Minister at the time - which New Democracy also voted against. The follow-up is known. The neocaramanic governance of the period 2004-2009 has degenerated the effort of PASOK, introducing at the initiative of the then competent Minister and following the President of the Republic Mr Prokopi Pavlopoulos the oral interview, which also abolished PASOK with No.3812/2009. Then SYRIZA - ANEL coexistence completed everything by sending them to the tartars. I just want to remind you that in 2016 the recruitment of retired and contractors broke every record. In fact, according to official figures and the AACC communication, the number of seventeen thousand five hundred and all of this was in a period of budgetary consolidation. And to mention that the posters in the ninth month of 2019 amounted to a thousand seven hundred ten. Today, ladies and gentlemen, almost thirty years after the establishment of the IASC enjoys - and it is commonly confessed and accepted - the confidence of the Greek people and, despite the individual problems which lead to significant delays in the completion of the procedures, it is a conquest that cannot be directly and officially challenged by an authoritative or party perception and practice. And now the words are spoken by the "Government of Excellence" to prove that in practice it is nothing but a government of virtues. It presents its legislative initiative as a major reform, and in fact it is a bad codification of the existing legislative framework. The alleged incision that is being attempted through the infamous all-Hellenic written tender - it has also been heard by our rapporteur - is a reconstitution of a procedure which is already in existence by the law of Peponis, which has taken place many times in the past. So none of the reformist. In addition, with this bill and despite the legislative improvements made by the new Minister, Mr Vorides, the Government shows that it is not interested in ensuring a better balance of the written part, other qualifications and work experience. The employment service, ladies and gentlemen, is of enormous importance to some of the categories of people already serving in the public sector and indeed in the wider public sector, and many, many years too. A characteristic example is that they are the workers in the CRAs and CRAs, whom the government is completely ignoring, as is the case with the fair demands of CRAs. I mention and say that workers with ten, fifteen and twenty years of uninterrupted work in the municipal CSRs and CSRs with successive fixed-term contracts for two decades have passed over hundreds of thousands of children and people with disabilities who have been engaged in CSR procedures. With the bill under discussion, the government promises to simplify the procedure and shorten recruitment times. However, it is not actually going to be a direct tender, as the bill provides that the first tender will be conducted in September 2022, but the procedure will not last any less by conducting the tender. On the contrary, everything is done to create system breaches so that the current rulers can control recruitment and obviously help their customers. Ladies and gentlemen, every day that passes I think that the masks are falling and the people are fully aware that the reformer, Mr Mitsotakis, leads us to an uncertain future with reports from the dark past. Unfortunately - and I conclude, Madam President - the logic of the loots which our party has tried to change with great institutional changes, after the previous coup d'état, also continues with the Government of the so-called good legislature and the state of service, with posters, with exceptional recruitment and exceptional leaders. I say that by November 2020 we have two thousand nine hundred ninety-four post-call employees. And now everything is easier with pandemic. To conclude, the policy pursued unfortunately has nothing to do with a genuinely progressive governance in the country, capable of leading the economy and society to go beyond its dead end. This is a failure policy of the New Democracy. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u197	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mrs Euthymou has the floor, via Webex, for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u198	Thank you, Madam President. Good year to wish me with health, strength and optimism, as well as to wish the Minister a success in his duties in this ministry. Modern reality, but also the one that will be formed in the post-COVID era, presupposes a public sector that has improved productivity and improved efficiency, a public sector that is flexible and can adapt to the reform policy pursued every time, facilitate investment priority and support the local advantages of each region. That is the reason why, in ratio, this bill is to be voted on. I ask: Are the provisions of this bill responding to the above needs? The answer is positive. And it is good because the words that characterise this bill are as follows: merit, assessment, exploitation, upgrading and renewal of the candidates' tank in more immediate time. A basic tool that accommodates all these concepts is the single, written and pan-Hellenic competition that assesses - and this is the important and different - knowledge, skills, personality, professional efficiency of candidates in terms of impartiality, transparency and objectivity. At the same time, the opinions of the opposition parties, the increased formal qualifications in postgraduate and doctoral diplomas, foreign languages and the professional experience still being the criterion of choice, are evaluated in parallel. All this is converging in a basic concept, in a basic principle, that of democracy. Although I am not a member of the committee, I have followed it with great interest. I mean the Public Administration Committee which is part of this bill. I shall therefore speak to you experientially on this matter, but also rightfully from my political, party and professional course to date. I have heard Mr Zachariadis, the rapporteur for Officerial Vice-President, speaking as a new Member and he, for his classmates, his classmates who left the years of the crisis. I would like to say that these young people have not only left. Young people have left who have lost confidence that they can be exploited on criteria of sovereignty by Greek law, by the Greek state, by the Greek state. And that's not just a pathogen of my generation. It's been a long time. And the superstitious example is what we recently see in the media, where we see established scientists, doctors, mostly, coming out from abroad and saying their opinion. What larger example than this? So the bill comes to put a brake on this very situation and restore the lost relationship of trust between the new scientists and the state in terms of merit. I would like to add something very important here. Certification is not just enough for entry into the public sector. Accuracy must exist throughout someone's working life in the public sector, know that it will be assessed on the basis of their real qualifications, their work efficiency and their qualifications in their working life. And I am sure the Minister will take this seriously. Another point in the bill that stimulates the participation of young highly qualified scientists is the shortening of procedures. We know very well that it can be reached today by up to three years. The aim is one year. This was strongly criticised by the Opposition on Interoperability. However, the current government believes in digital transformation and, in general, has taken great steps, which the SYRIZA government did not do when ruling. But, at the present stage with interoperability, firstly, the impregnable and, secondly, time-consuming product is being accelerated and the processes are being made more rapid. And because we are talking about a public sector, there will certainly have to be an important dynamic footprint. They are, therefore, explicitly part of the programming of public sector recruitment in a priority order for disabled people, as is also the rate of participation from 10% today, to 12%. Serious support is given to special and vulnerable categories of candidates, with an increase in the recruitment rate for both multiples. As for the third parties. And since I strongly participated in the public dialogue with the social actors on this issue within my parliamentary powers and capabilities, I believe that at the appropriate time and provided the conditions exist, the Ministry could review the further increase in the public participation rate for the multitude, but also give a solution to the issue of age limitation for third parties with regard to the ADP. In conclusion, the aim of this bill is to staff the public sector with merital criteria, so that we can finally achieve this well-considered upgrade. This bill does so and, by voting for it, we new Members in particular, to all young people, that this government, the Mitsotakis government, lays the foundations to shape the future of the new generation in terms of merit, by redefining with young people a new relationship of confidence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u199	Thank you, my colleague. The reason for this is, through Webex, Mrs Malama from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u200	Ladies and gentlemen, the issue of dignity in recruitment in the public sector is a key issue for the functioning of the state and for the integrity and effectiveness of the public administration. The paradox, however, is that the government which invokes within the legislature, its own legislation, these principles, has done everything in the eighteen months of its term of office to date, in order to curb democracy in the staffing of the public administration. So what can anyone remember? The expansion of the poster army? The hundreds of day-to-day recruitments of the infamous state of service? Administrative placements in civic services and unqualified and unqualified posts? After all, did the current Minister of Home Affairs admit it a few months ago in a public position, saying, "But, and who should we put? Foreigners?’. So the New Democracy has, over time, been one of the political forces that created the most famous client state. But no one can forget that, can't they? The New Democracy, too, is the political force which attacked the state, which brought the redundancies of teachers, university officials, municipal police officers, who introduced the punishing assessment, which reduced the social state and its services. Today, in this bill, this right-wing party invokes the need for a worthwhile appointment procedure to the public. We will also say 'good slow and never again'. But the bill that we have before us is not an innovation of today's government. The selection of public administration staff by means of a written tender is already valid. The Greek state has so far conducted dozens of written tenders for the service and posts in the administration and, consequently, the basic regulation of the draft law, namely the written tender, already exists under the founding law of ASEAN, the notorious law of Pepones. The question, therefore, is why the New Democracy has discovered this procedure now. Why in the past eighteen months has this government not exploited this selection procedure for the recruitments it has made or planned? Why did he appoint thousands of people in key areas of the state without objective criteria? Remember the notice for the special guards, or is it the equivalent for the armed forces? There, why did the proceedings proceed completely outside the framework of the AACC? On the contrary, as far as health was concerned, as from May 2019, the procedure of the notice of four thousand seven hundred doctors and permanent health staff on the basis of objective criteria, you canceled it a few months before the pandemic took place. Another very serious issue that is not dealt with by this bill is that of the working future of thousands of contractors supporting the operation of the state over the past years until today. What will the state do with the tens of thousands of contracted and auxiliary scientists, doctors, nurses, managers, who are today holding public health upright? We're gonna throw them out like a squeeze of lemon worms? What should we do with the thousands of substitute teachers who have organized every corner of Greece so that our schools can function? What should we do with contractors at the local government agencies, without which the Creative Employment Centres and the Creative Employment Centres for Children with Disabilities could not work? All these people who have been offering to the system and society for years, should they be on the road? We therefore say that there should be care, moleculosis and welfare for these categories so that they continue to work and do not collapse the public service as a whole. It would also be useful to focus on the needs of public administration today through the pandemic of the coronary pandemic. The State Services are unable to cope with their critical functions, as are the services of the ATT. I will give you an example. In the Halkidiki Prefecture, all public services are subordinated. Services are unable to carry out cases central to society and the economy. The Halkidiki General Hospital, the five health centers, schools, social welfare services, EFKA, OAED, ELTA, decentralised administration, district, forests, municipalities do not even have the minimum staff to operate. Citizens also face an inability to meet the needs of the administration every day. And we ask: Why? Can there be, therefore, a substantial protection of public health? Can there be quality training with these gaps? Can there be development, environmental protection, civil service, the unemployed, pensioners? The answer is obviously no. When will all these gaps be covered? Unfortunately, there is no such provision for these problems in this bill. So paper design is not enough to respond to the enormous challenges. The glorious chatter about cuts and reforms is unfortunately collapsed in the gruesome reality experienced by the citizen, the citizen, the patient, the businessman, the worker. SYRIZA, unlike the current government, believes in the social and development role of the state. That is why we have made progress in memorandum conditions to upgrade the ADP and we have completed important tender procedures, both in education and in health and in local government. We therefore call on the government to clarify its own intentions and to tell us which recruitment it plans and in which areas it introduces through the procedures it introduces in this bill, so that people know whether today's legislation is about the sight or whether it will have any substance in relation to the improvement of everyday life and public administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u201	Thank you too, my colleague. I will now give the floor to the Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy, Mr Ploir, and read you to the next speakers. It is Mr. Cappatos from New Democracy, Mr. Delis from the Communist Party, Mr. Fotila from New Democracy, and immediately after the Parliamentary Representative of Mera25, Mrs. Adamopoulou. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u202	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in my opening speech as a parliamentary representative, I would first like to wish many good years. May I wish the Minister, Maki Voridis, and I am very pleased that my first placement coincides with a bill from the Ministry of Interior of Maki Voridis. Ladies and gentlemen, it is courageous - because I will start from what has been heard here over the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative - that the previous government should blame the current government and the Prime Minister for intervention in justice. Interventions in justice in the handy way we had in the rule of SYRIZA. We had this part on television licences, as you remember, which was clearly put by the then Prime Minister Mr Tsipras for the decision, because within the basic rationale of SYRIZA then it was the control of justice and the media. At the moment it may have escaped that Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis has referred to what was the clear position of the New Democracy from the outset and has been justified by the facts, since at the moment a criminal prosecution has been prosecuted by the judiciary, not by the parliament, against the person, who handled the cases of the ten political persons for acts and omissions and illegal acts associated with these ten political persons and has been prosecuted by the Greek Parliament against the former Deputy Minister in cases and evidence based on five prosecutors and dialogues he has accepted as existent. So it's good to be careful. There's a description of the state of the right here. I'm really thinking: We were in another world about what we were talking about here? The state you went to structure, gentlemen of SYRIZA, remember? It was a state that had two main pillars. The first pillar is that we had to control justice. We have seen in a clear way, with the political responsibility of the Prime Minister at the time, but also with issues relating to criminal responsibilities now being investigated by the special court board, that it has attempted to take a bike against prosecutors. There was an attempt to control the media. If justice did not then rise and the Pappa law passed, then we would obviously not have the media today. And all this is about a more general philosophy that the Left has about the state and society in general. Mr. Paulakis said so. It's how the Left sees the middle class and what he wants to do to her in the middle class. I cannot repeat it from the Step of Parliament, but we have all heard what Mr Paulakis said. Why in the core and soul of the Left what is it? If anyone can go well and proceed to this place and raise his incomes and be able to contribute with these incomes he comes to pay the taxes to help the whole society and all these people who cannot contribute more to taxes, he is an enemy for the Left. Because the Left wants a small group that controls the state and poorly controlled an entire people - that is what socialism has done wherever it has been implemented - so that it is directly dependent on the state. So the one who can escape, operate and climb is an enemy. This is the main difference between free thinking and the free economy that we are coming and defending from the socialism that you are coming to defend. You want the people to be poor and control by the state. That is essentially what SYRIZA tried to do, and that is what Mr Paulakis said. Who was the enemy? It was the enemy who could be in the middle class and we had to do something to him, which, of course, you did it and, unfortunately, you did it and on the way, it's not that you just did it. So we now come to the part of what KINAL said. Anyone who listened to this Chamber would believe that the PASOK over the years he has ruled, ruled in a way of deserve and respecting appointments to the public. Ladies and gentlemen, the PASOK did not start its operation in 1994, which was voted on by the AACC. That was, in a way, to talk a little bit legally, the refreshing that he sought. Because in the 1980s it was the government that really put anyone who had been in front of a branch and had seen the sun of PASOK put him in public! This public made the PASOK! In 1994 - rightly so, the Peponnes Act, as Mr Scandalidis said today, comes in a series of windows, until 2004. Because PASOK always liked to bring laws to make it difficult for someone else to rule. He had done so with the electoral laws, and he has done so for many reasons. But you, of PASOK, who most of you are right now in SYRIZA, were also the state of the undivided rule of the 1980s. And to start with something: at the moment the bill is a reformist, not just because it takes all the interventions that have taken place over the years and codify them, as it has gone to show up, but because for the first time it is trying to have a system of merit. Because the APRC was an objective system, but it was not necessarily merital. They are choices made by the state to have some objective criteria and social denominator. For example, if someone is being donated because of having more children, this in itself is not worthy. It is a need that the state and the government see and indeed wants in these positions to premium someone for reasons of social criteria. Therefore, all procedures of the AACC in principle had objective criteria. Civicism is at the moment coming in a way that has to do with the central choice of the bill that is the written contest. That is to say, we have all the other typical elements that exist to a certain extent to strengthen the ability of humans to have more molecules, but there is a central option now with an element which is objective and merital that the other one comes to give the examinations. Here, therefore, it is a key section, that everyone will now know that it can participate in a central competition and in parallel to what is typical or other possibilities it has and prove objectively and constitute a reason for mobilisation, it will be able to exhaust the chances it has for it to be found in the public administration. This is not only for the benefit of the citizen, but for the benefit of the public itself, because the targeting at some point is, in fact, to be appointed to the public and to take up positions that can be better within the public sector, to help to have more productive flexibility in public and so that the citizen can also be served, but also to be able to function much more properly. Here, then, we have a central partition line to deal with the central competition and, at the same time, we maintain all the other systems that were in place to have an objective framework. Now here's what's going on. Reading a report by the journalist Giorgos Lykourentzou, I have reverted to the reports of the SAEP, because a little - much here, people have come and told us by SYRIZA that New Democracy is trying to operate supposedly rospheologically, while they had an objective process. I am therefore reading in the reports of the IASC, on page 125, which is the report on 2018. What I am reading to you a little - very repeating in all the SYRIZA's governance reports: 'Even more acute problems are created by the fact that the number of special recruitment procedures for regular staff continues to increase, where a different molecules of formal qualifications each time'. I mean, you did competitions, and every time you put on a different molecules of formal qualifications. What does S.H.I.E.L.D. say? If this differentiation was due to an objective need to differentiate situations and needs, it would be understood. He says there may be special reasons that oblige you to change the molecules method. But what does S.H.I.E.L.D. tell us? The AACC, with its experience as an institution, can safely formulate the assessment that most of the cases of differentiation are not caused by objective needs and differences, but by other purposes linked to the attempt to circumvent constitutional restrictions. So the AACC tells you that the tenders you made were basically tenders, because you wanted to overcome constitutional restrictions and serve other purposes and not the need for different moleculosis. Detailed examples: Recruitment at the Santorini Hospital and how they became subsidiary staff of the Ministry of Health, "Help at Home", staff of the Social Welfare Centres. These are not a theoretical debate we are having here, but they are the reports of the AACC on how you made the notices, gentlemen of the SYRIZA. And I'm telling you that in the notices you changed the way you would put the molecules criteria not because there were different needs, but why? Because you wanted to serve other purposes. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] Therefore, it is good, when you come here to speak of sovereignty and objectivity, to read how the AACC has judged you about the notices you have made. Because within this logic of the left state you wanted, of course, you also wanted a party state completely. And you wanted to see the possibilities to circumvent the procedures of the objective criteria. The government now comes and sets the most meritful and objective criterion to be applied and has something to do with the central competition. These, Mr Ragosi, are written by the seventeen members, which you say and you worry will be stopped, because their term of office ends in 2022, and you have made the scenario that "that is why you are putting the contest so that you have changed the ADP". Look what they say about you! These seventeen say these things, that you did the notices as you were attracted to, to appoint people. That was a little - very much what I read to you. I should like to close, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on an issue that has arisen. I have heard today and the statements made by the Chief of Police Representation, which has been mentioned today, trying to strengthen all the efforts made by the vaccines. A little - much, as Cassandra, he came to tell the prophecy that the world will not be able to be vaccinated. It is very important that Mr Tsipras changed his position a month and a half ago exactly, at the beginning of November, which said that we are trading hope with the vaccine. It's important that he's changed his position. It is important that you should understand that, through the central process of the European Union, our country will be provided with twenty-five million vaccines. It is more than it needs, but we obtain all this in the timetable that the European Union has in order to vacate the whole world. It is certain that after the world has been vaccinated, you will come and blame us for taking so many vaccines. It's in your DNA that thing, as you've charged with the past. The fact is that we are currently ensuring that the Greek people have a vaccine, in accordance with procedures, to be vaccinated as soon as possible in all the rules that will apply to the European Union. It is very pleasant that at last, SYRIZA realized that there is vaccine and it was not a trade of hope. With all these considerations, then, we will be voting in favour of the bill, which, for the first time, gives the possibility of a worthwhile crisis rather than an objective public policy and puts an end to the announcements you have made and now comes the ADP and tells you that you have done so in opaque procedures.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u203	Thank you very much, Mr. Pleari. Good evening, good year from me. Hold on to all of us! Minister, iron and courage through my heart!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u204	Be well, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u205	Let's go to Mr. Panagiotis Capatos from New Democracy and beautiful Kefalonia. You've got seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u206	Mr President, a good year to everyone! Minister, ladies and gentlemen, after wishing Mr Voridis and Mr Petsa a success, and also the Deputy Minister of Justice Mr Kotsiras, until a previous rapporteur from the majority in this bill, let me have a point. It is important that we discuss the draft law of the Ministry of Interior after it has been accepted by the new Minister, Mr Maki Voridis. It is important, because it demonstrates that respect for the institutional continuity of the state and the work of the people who form the government is not air words. It is our fundamental principle that we choose to apply it in practice and in the parliamentary procedure in this regard. I now come to the contents of the draft law. The A and O of every debate on the AACC is the transparency and objectivity of the procedures. It is a acquis that this bill not only adopts, but strengthens and confirms through regulations dictated by the risk of deserve and speed in procedures. What, then, are we dealing with with with this project? Firstly, the division and the difficulty of interpreting provisions which have already been amended since 1994. Secondly, the existence of parallel public sector staff procedures, which were at the discretion of the operators. Thirdly and very importantly, the increased time needed to carry out and complete the various recruitment procedures, where they even touch two years. In the field of the selection of Heads of State, however, we are expanding the role of CSCE, not its structures. We thus respond to the request for real excellence. How, then, is this targeting practically translated? The first intervention is identified in improving, modernising and updating the legislation currently in force for recruitment in the public sector. Another initiative concerns the introduction of a central recruitment procedure, the full-scale written invitation to tender to eliminate fragmentation of selection procedures and to serve the single programming of recruitment and selection of human resources in the public sector. With the bill we are still responding to the request for evaluation by means of the competitive process, the knowledge, skills and labour efficiency of the tenderers, so that the most appropriate ones can be chosen. Finally, with its organisational and operational support, the AACC, as a constitutionally guaranteed independent authority, is adapted in terms of effectiveness to the implementation of the new framework, with emphasis on the full-scale written tender. Since Greece is not alone in the world, however, which we see every day and in the management of the coronary crisis, in order for this legislation to follow the trends of the time, it systematically monitors international procedures. Central tender procedures for the selection of public sector staff are common practice in several countries of the European Union. For example, France, Portugal and Ireland follow this model, as does the European Union itself when selecting staff in its institutions. We have also followed the selection procedures that combine a multitude of tools that evaluate the candidates' knowledge, skills and personality elements. From the written tests, interviews and psychometric tests of France in Ireland's questionnaires and simulations, you can understand that there is a vendal proposal where we do not need to reinvent the wheel, but to sample from the positive samples of the international community. The draft law we are voting on is therefore important for many reasons. It is important because it respects the acquis of objectivity and the impreciseness of the procedures of the IASC, on which it adds and does not remove, because it monitors the era and adapts the institution to it, but does not increase it, because it reads the initiatives that are taken by the Western states and makes them an estate of the Greek legislative arsenal. However, more than any other finding, the draft law is important because it incorporates the soul of the public administration at its core, which is no more than its human potential. The AACC, ladies and gentlemen, is already the institutional guarantor for objectivity, transparency and dignity in recruitment to the public. It has been acting as reinforcers and its constitutional shield has been in place since 2001. With our legislative intervention, we maintain all those quality features that we recognise in the institution, by providing him with modern elements, traits that follow European good practice, account for social criteria such as those for disabled people and harmonise the recruitment process for staff with demands for efficiency, immediateity and speed in decision-making. For all these reasons, I am positive about the bill. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u207	Thank you, Mr Capato, and respect for the time. And I'm going to Mr. Ioannis Delis, Thessalonikios, from the JRC. Good evening, Mr. Delis, good year! Here, you have seven minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u208	Good evening, good year! Thank you very much. From the current debate on the bill a question arises: why, for example, the New Democracy and SYRIZA are now choosing not to confront themselves with the substance of today's bill but on secondary or even completely irrelevant issues such as, for example, the vote on the revenues or 'NOVARTIS'? But because the draft law on the ASP and the general functioning of the public is not despite the natural continuity of the relevant legislation of the SYRIZA, of course enriched and with the necessary adaptations - codifications, according to the Minister - and so forth the SYRIZA Public Executives Register has been transformed into a "executive state" by the New Democracy. But is it the first time that the urban state is modernising, as is today's bill, to increase its effectiveness? There is - you know - now rich people's experiences from the functioning of this urban state and older and also completely recent from this state, the final one, which is constantly modernising. And the floods in Carditsa, Serres, the day before Evros, Thessaly again are revealing. This state, therefore, becomes a super, incredibly fast and extremely effective state when it is going to license and support an investment, for example in the field of wind turbines. But when, in the same area, it is called upon to protect the property, even the lives of the people's layers of water, this same state proves totally reluctant and ineffective. It also becomes extremely slow when it is called upon to compensate the people's families, of course not because it is incompetent or because it is not sufficiently modernised, but very simply because it is classic, which dictates him to be the main priority in supporting the interests of business groups and not the needs of workers and the people. This fundamental class feature of any urban state is that it is attempting to strengthen with today's bill. And is it not just that this government puts the cart in front of the horse, since you know that it talks about appointments to the public and deals with how these appointments will take place when? While the budget for 2021, which it voted a few days ago, does not provide for the slightest amount of new appointments. Not to talk about public health, which so much needs mass recruitment, and for which the government's public health expenditure is reducing them by EUR 572 million. It really needs a great deal of courage, and the government, as it seems, has it, in order to advertise the new recruitment system and not to make a permanent intake in all those public services that have their messes, which are understaffed and are under-operated, so that people are suffering for years all pensioners, for example, to expect their retirement, which is delayed precisely because of the lack of staff in the ECA. However, it is something else with the bill, what is said about what this provides for insurmountable sovereignty and objectivity. I am referring, of course, to the use of the public interview, which is being expanded. Here are some questions: How much does an interview have to do with the objective of subjectivity? How much does the depreciation of diplomas, the zeroing of pre-services, the deterioration of formal qualifications, all such objective and measurable, which are degraded by the bill to the benefit of a subjective interview? Since we are talking about merit, however, we ask you something else: How, in fact, meritable and objective it is for someone to be deprived of the right to work for a paradox of 3 euros, and indeed, without his own fault, but the technical problems of a process outside of him, and for him to be punished for it and for deprivation - please! - his right to work for three years? This is currently going through thousands of contracted teachers. This is, obviously, a flagrant injustice in which the state and the current government are leading, demonstrating a characteristic and unexplained vengeance and analgesia. As you know, the inclusion or not of an instructor in the tables of the Ministry of Education gives him or not the right to work, first as a substitute, since appointments are now made with the drop-off. So unrighteous, and indeed, to whom? Faced with thousands of teachers who have been giving their souls anywhere in the country for years now and are being thrown out of paintings, i.e. out of work for only 3 euros! The issue is serious and it is not new. It also emerged in the process of drawing up the lists of the recruitment of teachers of special education and was repeated in thousands of cases in the last lists of teachers of general education. We have put it - others have put it in addition to us - the issue in the government in time, since the summer, you have put me here in the House, with written questions, with time-consuming and the teachers themselves are mobilizing themselves, as is now, at this moment outside the House and are fighting for the restoration of this injustice. What attitude has the government taken so far? When she stopped playing, as at the beginning, Ping-Pong with her responsibilities between the Ministries of Education, Home Affairs and the ASEP, then the predecessor of the current Minister came and assured at the end of July that a solution will be found, in consultation, as he said, with the President of the ASEP. This statement was also repeated at the end of August by the Minister of Education during the debate on a timely question from the JRC. It was, as it has been proved, an unacceptable tactic of the government and, of course, it cannot continue anymore. So, as a JRC, we have tabled an amendment which resolves the issue and restores the injustice that exists, and which we call on the Government and the Minister responsible to accept, if, of course, what the government says about merit, objectivity and credibility means them and not just words of air. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u209	Thank you, Mr. Delis. We move on to Mr Jason Fotella from New Democracy. Mr. Lightla, good year! You have seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u210	Thank you very much, Mr President. Be well. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank the outgoing Minister for the key reforms he has carried out in his brief term and, indeed, under conditions that were not known for the country because of the pandemic. I should also like to wish the new Minister his course in this ministry so successful - and why not? - and more than she was the one she had in the previous one, in the Ministry of Rural Development, which is stated by the vast majority of our farmers and farmers. This bill is intended, in particular, to our young people, to the new generation of Greeks who, while investing in their education and training, are not working at all or living and working abroad. It is a bill that emerged through extensive dialogue with parties and extra-parliamentary bodies and effectively modernises the system of recruitment in the public sector, a sector which, unfortunately, in the consciousness of the average Greeks is synonymous with the concepts of improperness, inefficiency, inefficiency, unfairness and unfairness to all those civil servants who are the vast majority who do their job responsibly, productively, with the zeal and with the basic criterion of the service of the citizen. However, public administration must be reformed in order to be governed by the principle of efficiency and productivity. For this reason, we are making progress, on the one hand, in updating the existing legislative framework by highlighting the essentials, beyond that of formal qualifications, through the full-scale written tender, on the other hand, to streamline the procedure for selecting suitable staff. This requires, however, at the same time, organisational and operational reinforcement of the AACC. The government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis with this bill reshapes the Greek state, eliminating chronic pathogens left us as a deposit by the previous governments. Sadly, in the past, walking the public was a constant tactic of all parties. The Greek government's dependence on political influence and feasibility undermined its function for decades. This has contributed to incomplete efficiency, with direct consequences for the service of citizens. Every day's interaction with the public administration for most of the fantasies is 'Golgothas'. It is therefore vital for Greece to reform the recruitment process in the public sector by managing it with the most appropriate and competent ones in the future. And how will that be achieved? The introduction of a central and uniform recruitment procedure, a full-scale written tender, assessing the knowledge and competence of the candidates concerned. So objectivity, dignity and transparency are substantially strengthened and consolidated in depth, since the appropriateness of the potential delegated in terms of the requirements and needs of that position at any time is now checked. We don't first come from a point of view. The same is done in most modern Western European states to ensure the quality of public administration, the fight against bureaucracy, the strengthening of credibility and hence the economy. We in our country, unfortunately, are putting the bad name out of the paperwork and a few non-productive civil servants in the public service. And how do we seek to overthrow this? We're introducing innovations. One of these is the electronisation of the entire recruitment process, while utilizing the interoperability of the AACC, with EKA, OAED, universities, so that red tape is struck. We are speeding up recruitment procedures so that from the call to recruitment that they do not go to better than two years, as is the case today, but are completed as soon as possible. The AACC plays a decisive role in this. That is why we are helping the work of the principle by strengthening it with a Vice-President and six members and, in total, with thirty-five more people. Our main and ultimate aim is to create a modern, efficient state that meets the requirements of the 21st century, and is developing and strengthening - I say it again, because it is important - the economy. Furthermore, we are undoubtedly strengthening the state's status as a welfare state by increasing the percentage of job-seekers' posts for 10% today in this 12%. In addition, the socially protected groups of the polytexts, tertiary and related HEIs are also now part of the competitive framework, ensuring a corresponding quota for this category, but always on the basis of the ratings of the written invitation to tender, so that the most worthy and the most competent ones can be recruited from these categories. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, above all, of the Officerial Response, I expected the Opposition to make a substantial programming speech, in response to the substance of the matter, but once again you have confined yourself to the achievement of micro-party purposes with untimely and unwitting remarks, without giving answers to well-established social problems and forgetting that you have now ruled for about five years now. You cannot have such a political reason, such as the one you had before 2015. SYRIZA accused us of not commending excellence. This could be the joke of the day. SYRIZA blames the New Democracy for not commending excellence and does not reward, as he says, postgraduate and doctoral, while the second postgraduate or doctoral title is being mobilized for the first time. It accuses us that we do not apply the use of new technologies, when our country has now acquired a clear digital footprint, since we have made the most use of digitalisation and interoperability in all areas. And while on the one hand he blames us for the incomplete use of new technologies, on the other, he blames us for a risk of digital bureaucracy. Really, what does that mean, Mr. Zachariadis? That a lot of digitisation is damaging. We are being blamed by the Qualified Opposition for high modulation of the interview, when during her days the interview was the principal, the main way of evaluating it. We come to limit the provision for the interview procedure only on three occasions. In fact, in the case of special scientific staff, it is down to 35%, and until now it has been an exclusive selection criterion for candidates. In the other two cases provided for in the interview, such as in the qualifications relating to life insurance and penitentiary officers through psychometric tests, ladies and gentlemen of the Opposition, it is an undeniable necessity to coexist with the written invitation. This is happening in most modern European countries. I say co-existence, because even where there is an interview, this only happens if the candidate has successfully passed the written tender procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, let us speak frankly. Did the law of Pepponi become part of it? Yeah. For his time it was part of it, and even a large section of it, and no one can reduce the value of the law of Peponnes or the value of the person itself. Did New Democracy vote for it? Oh, no. Why? Wrong, in my personal view. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] However, the New Democracy, as our President, Mr Mitsotakis, has repeatedly said, does not stop moving forward, modernising, changing, improving, following the pace of growth. So you didn't embarrass us to say that it hadn't happened. But you, who wanted the law at the time, had half of you objected to it, and so many of the points that the Minister wanted to go through so that they could not be accepted. Remember what the law said about civil servants, about the ECJs. But honestly tell us... (no connection) to a law which today remains a blank letter.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u211	Finish, Mr. Lightla.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u212	And more than 75% of the notices were made without a competition. We are therefore putting the security margins on the transparency and effectiveness of the law. To sum up, to close, despite the difficulties due to the pandemic, the Government of the New Democracy, Mr Mitsotakis, dares and makes necessary reforms for the benefit of the public interest. In this case, for the benefit of the unemployed, of the young people who have left our country because of the indebtedness and unemployment it brings, of all those who have pearls and abilities to work in the public with their value and with their'sword'. We'll make it. We will consolidate our modern rule of law, a state that is useful and functional for every citizen, a lever for growth and prosperity in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u213	Thank you, Mr. Lightla. Mrs Angeliki Adamopoulou, a Parliamentary representative from Mera25, is called at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u214	Thank you very much, Mr President. I should like to wish all my colleagues, in turn, a good year. I wish for a good year above all to the Greek citizens, who have been tested in the most impeccable way for a decade now, who are looking for a ray of hope and light in literally the 'blows' and who are fighting stoicly against enemies, whether visible or invisible. Before entering the bill, I consider it my duty, Minister, to respond to the genuinely obscene and provocative attack on all the health personnel of the country with Mr Contozamani's statements. In the first wave of pandemic, you literally lobbied doctors and nurses, working on communication, considering that they had made superhuman efforts, while they were helpless and impervious and called people into communication fireworks, getting out in the balconies and applauding doctors. But now the masks really fell. You have been indifferent so long to strengthen the National Health System. You are indifferent to shield these people who daily give a superhuman struggle with personal self-depression. One works for two literally. If, indeed, you visit the hospitals - because I happened to visit - you will see them falling apart from depression and overcompensation. Instead of strengthening them, what are you doing? You're saying it's their fault that they have individual responsibility for the patient's sorting. Not only that, but you even target doctors who were stuck in the "Saint Savva" Hospital for whom an administrative probation has been ordered. It is up to this point that this government's ruthlessness and danger have come to the fore. In fact, in his statement on the death fiasco in the city of Thessaloniki, what did he actually conspire? That the government would not mislead religious fanatics opened up the churches. I would like, Minister, to reply to what you said the day before yesterday in committee on who ordered the patient to be sorted. The Ministry? I'll answer yes. The Department of Health gave the order, and I'll tell you why.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u215	You can tell us very well, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u216	If I don't say it, you can answer me. How do you expect when you give the "military", which is the doctor, ten bullets, to kill a hundred enemies? That's my question. When you do not guarantee them the adequate number of intensive care units and when the medical community has come out and says that 80% of the deaths of the victims took place outside intensive care units, how do you expect, when you do not manage the hospitals, while we have called on you so long to order private clinics and treatments, these people in time 'd.t.' with the 'weapons' that have not, to make decisions? So decisions are determined by the political leadership, which is the Ministry. Indeed, yesterday in an interview with the Prime Minister, we did not see any self-criticism, nor did we specifically refer to the drafting of a specific plan to tackle the pandemic. On the contrary, we have seen vagueness, and we have seen a devastated and twisted image. So you have reached the top of the iceberg of governmental provocation by targeting the decommissioned National Health System. We therefore call on you, even now, to listen to the demands of doctors and to have massive recruitment of permanent staff, the permanent permanentization of subsidiary personnel and their equipment, the order of clinical equipment - I repeat - and complete logistics. We have proved as a PART25 that we have been with all the citizens, the undignified, the poor Greek citizens, who have been left with their mercy, have no social care, no social welfare. They are people who are called upon to play thousands of social roles, the good professional, the good worker, the good craftsman, the good worker, the good father, the good mother, without having the slightest connection, the slightest means, without having a "dad in the Koronis" that we say. For this very reason, we are on the side of the genuine merits of democracy, which corresponds to justice, the dignity that is identical to the truth, which you have come to forget, to have put it in the government bed of the Protestant and to draw a left, a right, above every limit of reasonableness with the "good", of course, media. We do not recognise any rosphetological logic, either for 'blue' or 'blue' or for 'green' or for 'yellow' 'poor' 'poor' for the whole range of colours. I'm coming to the bill now. So as in the majority of your legislative initiatives, once again we see that you are inferior to your circumstances and your announcements. I am referring to the report on consequences, which says that 'this bill responds to the need for further consolidation of transparency, democracy and objectivity in the public sector recruitment system'. You, Minister, have made fifty-three legislative improvements. So, what did you actually see? After Mr. Theodorikos''scream', which brought this bill, after the fact that so many operators came and "sold up" point - the bill at the hearing of the bodies, you had to make fifty-three legislative improvements, essentially by accepting the degradation of the bill on the part of these bodies. However, these improvements are not enough, because there are other problematic points, which I will point out to you right now. First, you did nothing for the infamous exceptions. The Citizens' Ombudsman himself has told us that a constitutional provision that wants all the recruitment procedures in the public sector to pass through the AACC competitions is being circumvented. This is the case, on the one hand, because of the far too many exceptions and parallel systems of recruitment you are considering and, on the other hand, because of the very limited involvement of the AACC in cases of non-permanent staff, such as the subsidiary, such as the emergency, such as the seasonal one. In other words, you have made the exception rule, which are the parallel recruitment systems, and the rule, which are the competitions of the AACC, an exception. Secondly, the multiple recruitment systems, as I mentioned, and the excessive mobilisation of the special experience, even in the notices of the ADP, often lead a large number of citizens to appeal to the Citizens' Counselor, who has seen significant'resolutions' and the principle of transparency and the principle of sovereignty. That is why you have not taken care of it either, since the bill provides for the same exceptions that apply and, in the end, there is no single institutional framework for all of them. Thirdly, on the issue of age limits, despite the fact that you have been mentioned, you still do not allow the citizen who, because of the age limit, wants to create a legality check. But what are you doing? You do not allow him to raise objections or objections to the administration, but you see that a request for the age limit will be made by the host institution and the Minister of Home Affairs will decide. "Yiannis is buying, Yannis drinks," that is. Because even if you allowed this appeal before the administration, the candidate would have been doomed to rejection from the outset, and in any other case if it were accepted, you would simply have undoed yourself. Fourthly, the additional degrees of study of the same grade continue not to be modulated. It is, in fact, absurd not to recognise the titles to people who have made a superhuman struggle end two universities differently, for example, legal and mathematics, which is much more difficult and much more time-consuming than having one and two postgraduate diplomas. These people are totally downgrading them. It is not limited to having different cognitive objects. Instead of using them as multi-purpose tools that can be used in public administration and which produce very significant results, you are effectively abolishing them, abolishing the evaluation and modulation of different subjects of study, but also of the basic degree and treating the graduates of private colleges, which are usually "blue" children. Fifth, foreign languages. While in the era of globalisation, a globalised globalised context, the occupation of several foreign languages is a very important qualification, this qualification is rewarded by just two molecules, that is, two years' work experience. For work experience, you are only asking for a certificate from an insurance body, which is not a quality criterion, does not guarantee the quality of work. And, of course, no one can assure us how they got this job. They may have just had an interface, they might have been very lucky. Sixth, you degrade knowledge and objective qualifications in terms of skills and the famous structured interview. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] Mr President, I shall use both dentology and tritology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u217	Please, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u218	You get a criterion that is truly fluid, which is subjective, which is not an objective qualification such as knowledge, such as titles, you give him 35% for special scientific staff, a thousand hundred molecules for them on duty, while the doctorate is only a five-and-a-half-mile premium. So you have a diabetic criterion of occupying the lion's share of the others. The reason for this is why you want to make this whole process more controlled and less objective and competitive. You've brought fifty-three whole legislative improvements, Minister. This does not, however, deny the fact that the government so far, the final state, has shown itself to be a rousphetological state, a state serving the party rule with the army of the poster with which you have served all your important points, increasing wages and reducing qualifications. In fact, in order to be more specific, I will submit to the Minutes a post yesterday, the 'Preservers' Newspaper', which literally speaks for a decade's record at the 'Days' dawn. It speaks of a charge of the state budget of EUR 65 million to the annual cost of payroll of the transferees and an increase of 236% to the cost of the general stamps. The annual cost of paying each poster costs 22,000 euros and you wait with 534 euros for the ordinary Greek citizen to live. Only their overtime is 712,000 euros. When Mr Hatzinikolaou asked the Prime Minister 'why, Prime Minister, do you not go ahead with the business all this time?' The answer she literally gave - because I heard her interview - was 'why they wouldn't have left any money'. EUR 65 million was given for posters, so much for the channels, but there would be no money left to support companies that put 'luketo'. In the long term, therefore, it will be shown that in relation to this bill, the Minister of the Interior will come to launch a major competition, a competition - overproduction, which will be literally cut and stitched to the measures of the "blue" children, who - o of the miracle - will do well in the structured interview. It will be a "burned" game that will create false hopes for thousands of graduated citizens with most qualifications, who will be running to submit supporting documents, candidacies. They'll think they'll be able to win some position when the game's set. And even this great contest will work on him as a communication figurine. We therefore believe that this bill is a clear smuggling for thousands of non-blue citizens. I am going into my dentistry and would like to refer to a major issue that has been created for at least a year. These are thousands of teachers who were excluded from the lists of nominees, because they did not complete the payment of the EUR 3 offence. We have tabled an amendment to this issue today, and please, Minister, see it because it will not be credited to us if you accept this amendment. This will be credited, above all, to you, but you will have saved, if I am not mistaken, seven thousand teachers. I asked this issue in a timely question at the Ministry of Education last year. We are talking about candidate teachers filling vacant posts in general and special treatment, who have been rejected despite the fact that they fulfil all the essential and formal qualifications. They submitted all their documents in the short term, but because of the lack of instruction and the lack of interoperability - to how they are coming now and to touch the issue of interoperability - the TAXISNET and ASEP electronic systems and failures of the banks' electronic systems have not been able to electronically publish the necessary paradox. They are people with doctorates, with experience, with training, which are excluded from permanent appointments and from recruitment as substitutes for the next three years. They are people who were orchestrating all of Greece literally with a suitcase in their hand to collect molecules, manage to settle their lives and get out of the insecurity of labour and who, under adverse conditions at the moment, remain 'in the air'. For these people, then, we see both merit and excellence going for a walk because of a truly bureaucratic and typical error for which they are not responsible. When I asked Mrs Zacharakis to the Ministry of Education, Mrs Zacharakis replied at that time and said that the next call should be as precise as possible so that we do not have cases of people currently in difficulty. He also said that the AACC had informed him that it had committed itself to addressing positive applications rejected as a result of a misrepresentation of the wrongdoing or applications for which within the relevant two-month time limit of TAXISNET another level of incorrect payment was made. So, because 'in the rain sticks the iron', we are calling today if you have the will and since this has been repeated by the administration of the AACC - I have been told by a member of the AACC - that it is a matter of political will before you take up your duties. I shall conclude by referring to two issues. One thing has to do with the circle of concentrators, who again did not have time to pay for the end of the public spaces. We are talking about a large number of catering business owners who, due to poor information, had the impression that an extension of this fee had been granted up to 30 April. The deadline ended on 31.12, they did not know it, so at the moment they are also charged with the fee and at a fine of 100% of the value of the fee. A businessman in Pangrati who paid a fee of EUR 1,500, will now be invited to pay EUR 3 000. Today their representatives had a meeting with Mr Koromanzo. The municipal council agrees to find a solution for these people. However, he informed them that it is not a matter of the municipality, that it is a matter of purely legislative nature, of the Ministry of Interior. So what they suggested is that the respective fees for those undertakings that used a public municipal space in 2020 for various uses - bank seats, goods - whose operation was suspended due to lockdown, should be able to pay the fees by 30 April 2021, taking into account that all these enterprises were suspended from 15 March to the end of May and from 1 November to 3 December. So you understand that it is also an economic issue, not just a misunderstanding. Finally, the diseases which, in fact, exist in the public sector appear practical even from the employment status of municipalities, where instead of permanent employees, there are the four-month contractors, for whom I had raised a question that their contracts should be extended. And, finally, they were extended - and good - after our intervention. However, they themselves are protesting - and rightly so - that it is not possible for the LAGs to manage them with fixed-term contracts which cover fixed and fixed-term needs, such as clean-up. There are huge gaps right now in the municipality. Consider that in the Municipality of Athens there are sixty families to which they will not be distributed as there are no employees. These people, in other words, don't have access to the cassette due to a lack of employees. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, shortly. So open up the system of permanent recruitment through ASP. The Municipality of Athens had ten thousand employees when it was Mr. Kamines Mayor and now has six thousand. The emergency line is not working either. Even those who are taking joint projects - and I hope you can hear me, Mr Minister, because what I am saying is very important because they relate to their work relationships - they work with eight months' contracts. And when the people who in the eight months have learned the job, then they will again get new ones who will be late to learn the job. So you must finally establish the rule which is the system of permanent recruitment to all operators in the wider public sector and stop operating in reasonable free markets, with flexible forms of work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u219	Thank you, Mrs Adamopoulou. Mr Dionysius Kalamatianos has the floor from SYRIZA and Elias Prefecture for seven minutes. Here you go, Mr. Kalamatiane, you have the floor. Have a good year.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u220	Good year to you, Mr. President. Thank you. The bill we are debating today in plenary is an attempt to codify existing provisions and at the same time to introduce others that are not linked to democracy and equal opportunities for all citizens. It is also very important, however, that the time comes for this bill to be voted on. Our country is in the second wave of pandemic and we are heading towards the third. The National Health System is at its limit and stands up thanks to the persistent and painful efforts of the staff of our nursing structures. The vaccination programme proved to be a piece of paper. Suddenly, the government discovered that health centers do not have enough personnel to carry out vaccinations. One failure of the government succeeds. He had eight months to take and implement measures. But he refuses to do what he has to do while he can. It doesn't strengthen primary medical care. It does not employ adequately the health staff who need public health. When you were elected, you stopped the procedures for recruitment. Now the country finds it in front of it, and the citizens are suffering. The government, of course, is present in the nominations of the party army. Her poster arrived in a decade and their cost was multiplied in a year and a half. But the government is absent from society. You've come to blame the doctors for the dead outside the intensive care units. In this gracious landscape, you also bring this bill. But I wonder where your liberal election profile, the profile of excellence, is. Your course so far demonstrates a right profile, emerged from the era of hard right. Our rapporteur has described them very much in his speech. I'm coming to the bill now. The draft law, despite the explicit assurances of strengthening democracy, does not seem to cover any of the requirements of a modern assessment of suitability. Neither significant selection innovations introduce any serious institutional changes that are taking place in the aptitude-raising of recruitments. It does not introduce good practices from other countries of the European Union, as well as modern techniques for evaluating the essential competences that would correct the weaknesses of the competition. The conscious choice of the degradation of academic criteria is clearly in the wrong direction. The principle of dignity requires the diagnosis of the candidates' essential competences. The written invitation to tender has existed as an institution under the founding law of the AACC since 1994. It's a tool for diagnosing the candidate's suitability and merit. It should not, however, be the only one or one that is of absolutely decisive importance, especially when it is based on the multi-purpose method of questions. What the public administration needs is the recruitment of qualified personnel with knowledge, skills, with skills, with competences to respond to the new digital world. Contrary to these, the bill focuses almost exclusively on speeding up selection procedures and on the so-called public offering of new recruitment opportunities, which are, however, released by demanding and refined tests for the determination of essential qualifications. You aim to create expectations of appointment to thousands of citizens by carrying out a great, huge competition. However, the positions will also be limited and the aptitude procedures for diagnosing the essential suitability of the candidates will disappear with the provisions you enter. After all, the Prime Minister himself had stated in an election that he did not want to increase the government's staff and that the Memorandum Rule of One Intake should be applied again for five public departures. This rule, of course, does not apply to post-mortem employees, to your children, which your Government is multiplying and increasing the costs of their wages, thereby lowering the standard qualifications required respectively. Besides, the New Democracy and Prime Minister's own view of public workers are well known by those who have been involved in availability and dismissal in the period 2012-2014 when he was serving as Minister of Administrative Reform. But also your events from July 2019 until today do not leave much room for optimism. In conclusion, Mr President, I should like to refer to the late amendment by the Minister of Justice. He spoke beforehand. This extends the period of redefinition of the pending cases of the Katseli - Stathaki Act until 31 January 2021. On the SYRIZA side, during the discussions in the committees and in the plenary of this law, we had noted that the deadlines for it were suffocating and that thousands of borrowers were in danger of losing their first residence. We pointed out that it was not possible for the debtors to obtain all the necessary documents within such a short time. Banks and public services are down in quarantine. We have asked again for an extension of this question recently. Unfortunately, the Minister refused to listen to us until today. Finally, even now, at only five literally, the logic has come back. However, the extension given until the end of the month, i.e. in fifteen days, is minimal. It will not arrive and you will then have to give a new deadline. It is tormenting to submit to the world who is struggling to save his home in the torment of the drop. We understand that banks insist on and demand that they get over with these cases and get the properties in the crisis. Besides, your law aimed to serve them. All the burdens and obligations are unambiguously borne by borrowers. At least, keep the pretext and give the minimum procedural rights to the citizens who fight. In their large majority you must know - and you know that - they have not been in a real weakness of payment on their own responsibility. In the bill that we are debating today, we have made detailed provisions that are contrary to merit and equal opportunities. Has the Minister, Mr Vorides, chosen the camp of the rule of law and the protection of the rights of all citizens? I ask that, because some of you are more equal than others, some of you have defective left ideas and they should not govern, as you say. In fact, according to what you have said, institutional interventions must also be made so that this does not happen. Some of them aren't your kids, they're strangers to you. Unfortunately, however, for you and thankfully for democracy, all those who are excluded in antagonistic ways are the great majority of the Greek people. Those of you who want to settle, be they entrepreneurs or candidates for appointment, the many who go to the margin with your own government and want dignity and equal opportunities will answer you. That is how it happens in democracy, and thankfully, this city is. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u221	Thank you, Mr. Kalamatiano. And I will go quickly - quickly to Mrs Marietta Giannakou from New Democracy, which, after being informed to the Ministry of Defence, came to support Mr Vorides as well. Here, Mr. Giannakou, you have the floor. Good evening! Good evening!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u222	Mr President, I am sorry, I changed my turn, but we had a Committee on Foreign Affairs at the Ministry of National Defence, and that is why it happened. Mr President, the institution of the AACC is the second institution that is surrounded by respect for all the citizens of the country, a strictly objective criterion and a guarantee of recruitment in the public and wider public sector, which so far has not been called into question. In our country, which had been aroused in previous years by the lack of objectivity in recruitment to the public, as a result of customer habits that had prevented the institutions and citizens, it is a duty to safeguard the institution of the APRC and to further strengthen and update it in order to meet the needs that arise at every time. In this draft law, an effort is made to stabilise the system of personnel selection through the IAS, the development and reinforcement of practices that will contribute to achieving the objective of selecting individuals for the positions they are required to serve, and the formation of always in the spirit of strict commitment to the objectivity of those points that need to be initiated, in order to meet the current needs. Personally, I am convinced that the increase in the number of recruitments to their overwhelming majority through the conduct of pan-Hellenic examinations, in particular the multi-purpose method, as well as skill competitions, helps achieve the objectives I mentioned. At the same time, I believe that the existence of the interview in such a way that there is a real assessment of the recruitment of specific posts is an undeniable necessity for diagnosing the particular elements of the candidates who characterise a person's ability to fully fulfil the tasks he has to carry out. Because it is not just the possession of diplomas or knowledge to respond to the tasks of certain posts, but also special skills which exist in most of them in the nature of each person and in his or her personality. This method exists in the systems of selection and evaluation of individuals for recruitment to public posts in many European countries. It should, however, meet those criteria which ensure an objective and fair crisis, such as the individuals who make up the interview committee, which should be of increased prestige and training in relation to the subject-matter of the interviewee and the subject-matter of the interview. Finally, I wish to point out and insist on the application of a common wage to the public for posts of the same category and grade to all the ministries and institutions of the public, because not only is it an act of justice and gives civil servants the opportunity to deal with them on the part of the government with equality, so that they do not suffer discomfort, but also because it is a factor of enormous importance for the free functioning of the public service, since there will not be a tendency for officials to flee to services with higher wages by stripping all the rest of them, which, because of this fact is not capable of working effectively. I think that, if these conditions to which I have referred, we will now have not a perfect selection and evaluation system, because it is difficult, unfeasible, even though the conditions allow it to be more credible and more effective, which the Greek State, the Greek state and the Greek people need. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u223	The Parliamentary Representative from the Communist Party of Greece Mr Athanasios Paphilis is called at Stepma
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u224	I am assuming - and I say again - that there is a harsh confrontation between the New Democracy, SYRIZA and KINAAL, secondly, but other parties, concerning the functioning of the state, recruitment and the promotion of public administration officials. In our view - and so it is - the confrontation is fake, it is callous and to a large extent hypocritical. It serves bipartite controversy, aimed at who best serves the state. Which state is it? This is where we have to come to an understanding. What state? The state that's objective? The state that's polemic? The State that is neutral? Are the classes abolished and we've been to communism? What state? The state of the axial? The state's the effective one? For who? The state is nothing abstract. It's very specific historical and social, so to speak, with a loose expression. And we say that it is false controversy and hypocritical to a very large extent - we have, of course, explained - because not only are there no strategic differences, but there is a complete matching of the other parties, a complete matching of particular SYRIZA and KINAL. It is also a matter of acceptance and subjection to what the state serves, beyond the various bubbles and the various demagogues. The New Democracy is the most cynical. Not to say 'cynic', to say that it is more open and careful at the same time, because you say the same about the state, about the citizens and so on. In particular, SYRIZA and KINAL - I do not want to enter other parties because it needs a lot of discussion - are consciously creating a delusion among the people. What's that delusion? That there could be a pro-linguistic state, when it has a handful of capitalists, when it has the bourgeoisie and monopolies. So let us accept - and everyone accepts it, at least those with little brains and knowledge - that the state is an organized class domination, as Lenin said. Do you agree, Mr. Voridis? Lenin wrote that in three words. So how can there be a state where there is organised class domination - organised means organising and even ironing at times - which will serve in all ways and in all the streets and which has been historically proven, whether through civil democracy, by dictatorship or in any form, and that state should be polite when it serves the interests of a overwhelming minority, which is plundering wealth, Mr Ploires? He's shining him, stealing him from the workers' sweat. That is the real power and therefore, like any authority - and that makes sense - builds up the state that ensures it and does not hesitate to resort to any methods. Isn't that right? So that's the way it is. That is therefore objective, whether anyone says so or not, whether he admits it or does not admit it. So, in order to continue with this, we must say again why, for example, some do not understand and unfairly blame them, do you blame them for socialists? Wrong, your colleagues are in management. So why do I say that some people do not understand that when one says that the driving force of society is private initiative, as they say - the stealing of the sweat of workers, that is, as we say - entrepreneurship, business, then is in agreement with this and cannot create a different state? This is a simple, not simplistic one, but a very simple logic that we do not need to explain in economic terms. So there are two perceptions here. Neither three or four streets nor two streets, because the third and fourth streets led to wild capitalism, Paul, to speak to the indigenous ones, who move the head. There are two perceptions here, and we have to be clear. What do you guys think? Capitalism. What does capitalism mean? It means that society is moving on the basis of profit and through this movement there is growth and people's needs are also being met. What popular needs? One is spending a million on a party, and the other wants ten lives to get these. That is what you say and I will reply more specifically. The other way, what does it say? It says that what we see around us, what we have here, everything, who produces it? The capitalist? Oh, no. They are produced by the workers of the hand and spirit and after they produce them, they are able to also take power into their hands and use those who steal their own sweat. And because we are not talking in terms of 1917, but in terms of 2021 and 2020, the potential is such that today, scientific, technological, labour productivity, society, at both national and global level, which can live a happy life, can meet increasing needs. Why can't that be? Because 1%, for example, in the United States, has 80% of the wealth produced. By whom is wealth produced? It's from the workers. So there are two concepts in this House and in society. One is to go with the barbarity of capitalism, which is now shelved, is gone from every limit, which, instead of working five and six hours, you work ten and twelve and a lot longer. Instead of having a free time, you run from morning to night with a soul in your teeth, and it could be different. And besides, he's blocking the progress of society. That is the essence - we think - of political controversy. You're gonna tell us, okay, what's this got to do with the bill?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u225	How's he not? That's the point.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u226	That is the point, which society we want. The society of barbarism, war, inequality, poverty, cruel misery, everything on the one hand or the society that produces all this will be able to and enjoy it, so as to say it in simple terms. This is the most important strategic difference. And here we and you are the rest of the people who are supporting this system, and much worse or I'm not gonna say it worse, and very badly those who think they're going to humanize it. There's no way the workers know that. It cannot change such a system, which has emerged in the pandemic and its barbarity. It will either be overthrown and build another society that we are talking about. Mr. Flouris, excuse me, but do you charge socialism to SYRIZA? What are you talking about? This is over. This was shown in governance. What socialism? Are you all right now? What socialism? They say that we capitalism will make him better and worse in what sense? Following these steps and handing over the spoon to you too. Secondly, you said something about socialism. We are talking about socialism - communism, we are not talking about monkeys or about supposedly. Socialism - communism enables all people to become what they want and to live very well. I don't have the phone here to read you a message, but I'll tell you right now. Ask the child his mother: "Mom, in socialism they had free electricity, free home, free health, education, free sport, culture." "Yes, my girl," he says, "they were given by the communists so they wouldn't be free." That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u227	Why did they want to come?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u228	Look, now we won't have a more general debate, but the system that you support today and always, has been rotted, is over. The point is when people decide to overthrow it. It cannot and must not be for the workers to accept this barbarity today. As much as you go to cover it up, as they say in my village, it can't work any differently. Even the state interventions you're now doing and you're obliged to do them, do them with foreign tide, which is the money of the workers. Secondly, you make them unequivocally loyal to your theory that we are subsidizing ten major businesses and one we give the world so that it does not fall completely into impoverishment. So let's go to the bill. Why is the confrontation in the bill fake? Who's the man now? To hire public sector workers and to strengthen the social sector in particular or how they will be recruited? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will also take the time of my dentistry. What is burning today is the way in which the public health system is hiking or falling apart? To take this example. The main thing is to get doctors stable, nurses, etc., or is to see how we get them? Already there are. Why don't you permanentize the four thousand who work from the OAED? Now, now, immediately, tomorrow, so some of us don't have to tell you here at SYRIZA that we're doing everything in socialism. Why don't you do the recruitments on the basis, not what we consider to be, but on the basis of the establishment plans of the hospitals? Did you do it? Oh, no. You proclaimed it. Nobody did it. Second, industrial relations. The public...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u229	...the state.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u230	The state is urban, you have served it in the best way and you have given all of you to the New Democracy as well, since you want us to have a dialogue. What happens all these years and with the memorials that some have torn apart but have not been able to rip them, because it was difficult, pratty collant, which people were saying. What happened? What happened? Slow down or not in the social sectors of the state. Those socialists who were distracted with struggles, blood with sacrifices, etc.Huh? Shrinking everywhere. What for? For two reasons. One is to save money, and the second is to open up the private sector. That's, uh, 60 euros to run a test, 80 euros to go do better and all the rest. They remembered in the pandemic. Here has proved the size and partnership of the private and public authorities, for which you all agree. Here's the private thing that proved. Prove the barbarity of the system. Third theme: on what criteria? Now I'm talking about the strategic partnership. What are the criteria? I read before the conversation with the Vernardakis, who was? What you have today and you're improving them, but to the worst. Perhaps some will improve them for the better. Probably looks for the better at least. What are the criteria today? Now listen to me and you talk about party states and that. It's not about the capitalists and the system of the party. People are interested in people who are convinced of the political service of capital's interests for the capitalist one-way. That is why they want officials in the public sector who do not care what they will be able to vote for, but whether they will consistently serve, for example, investments, the other, which is the strategy of capital today. That's the point. Who opened it? It has started with a European directive before, has it, Mr Ragosi? The SYRIZA government has implemented it and the New Democracy continues to do so today. Fourth theme, the interview. Yes, sir. Why do you call SYRIZA about the interview? Didn't you bring her by law? There was no battle for the interview from KINAL. Didn't you defend her? I was listening to Mr Kamine, who was the king of the New Democracy. She was on her right side for the interview. So we say that in these all strategically, there is agreement with all parties precisely because they drink water, as the ordinary world says, from the same tap. Fifth issue, the conclusion of the AACC and the independent authorities. What do you think? Whoa! That's a big invention! The authorities are independent! Are they independent? And it's not about some people who might be holding a good stand. The first point is that the independent authorities are called upon to implement a specific legislative framework. Yes or no? Isn't that what they do? So, what's independent? Can the committee there say 'no privatisation' in the energy sector? He can't say it, since the government's line is privatisation. Can the AACC even make a different assessment that recruitment must be done differently? Oh, no. It will apply the government framework. So, which independent authorities? And secondly, okay now, don't be fooled. Who puts the independent authorities in it? Who appoints them? Is there any popular referendum? Or is there a referendum in some area? Aren't governments doing this? What are you mocking people? We're telling you common sense, not ideological flares. Each government, except for the exceptions that want increased majorities - and that is where the lisverish is - appoints the independent authorities. She puts people who are hers. This has been happening all these years. So, which independent authorities? Now, for our bill, we say it's all the time, it's a change of doggy. He ran the PASOK, then the New Democracy - PASOK government handed over the baton to SYRIZA and SYRIZA handed it over to the New Democracy. Just say a few words about the interview. Why are we against the interview? Why, is there any phobia? No, there's no phobia, but what do we say? That each interview can be used for both good and unsatisfactory, the one that finally judges in the event of a tie. And for people to understand what we're saying, let's assume we have two candidates who have the same qualifications, degrees, postgraduate degrees, I put all the rest. I'm not standing on them. And he comes to be judged which one of the two will be hired. Who's gonna be hired? The one who's going to have a better interview. Can the interview be structured? Who decides to interview her? On what criteria? Who are they - and I am not messing with anyone in particular - who will set these criteria and with whom? In the light of the government's directions, we should put our own people. And to put our own people in, we need to make specific questionnaires. A second question concerning the interview. So far, the interview has been the case for special scientific staff. With the changes that have been made by both SYRIZA and now by New Democracy, we may say that we also have reservations - even all the holders of postgraduate, doctoral, etc. So what's gonna happen? They're going through a big piece of the interview, not just with the written contest. Moreover, each body can characterise the above as a special scientific staff with the bill you bring. He can say he's a special scientific staff, so he's an interview, which is the key to the recruitment. They're specific issues, but they're serious. Thirdly, the questions. I said it and I'll repeat it. Where can they be shaped and how? Especially where specific qualifications are needed, who will determine the questions? I will give you an example. Two candidates are coming. One is, I'll say it like this, progressive or communist, and the other is not. And they ask him: "How will you manage a crisis at the nursing home, when there is no permission, etc.''.'. He'll shut it down, tell each other he'll say he'll claim funding from the government. I'm saying a random example that may not be very successful. So who's gonna hire? Who better manages the crisis? One with social criteria and the other with strict economics, government. That's why we put these issues on. I would like to end by saying the following. I've got two more minutes. First theme, pandemic, because there was a debate. Let's tell you. Since March last year we have made some proposals to deal with them. Who were these? First, workplaces. Your old shoes. I also challenged the Prime Minister, he was here in the budget. Tell us how many places you've checked in, how many places you've made a fine. Zero. Or at least you didn't answer. Yes or no? Secondly, we told you about public transport. We have also made a proposal to you: there are two and a half thousand tourist buses. Take them, pay the drivers, fuel and maintenance and put them in Athens and in the big cities. Did you write us in the oldest shoes, yes or no? Third, schools you said you didn't have. Where is Mr. Theodorikos, who said the municipalities were responsible and have many rooms and let them solve it? But this resulted in teachers being recruited. Nothing. The studies come after October and say that health bombs are workplaces and public transport. It's not our studies. Now what do you have to say? So are you responsible or not? Why didn't you do that? Why did you open tourism like you opened it? Now let's go to the vaccine. Of course, we have heard 25 million, they have, but the situation is tragic. And can I tell you something? You started vaccination from eighty-five or more. What for? On what criteria? We don't say the opposite. All people live. You'll tell me you don't have vaccines. A hundred thousand are, a hundred twenty thousand vaccines that are present at the moment. You should also make a categorisation other than health - I accept that. Who are they more exposed immediately? Because most of them are locked in their homes. No one's coming out, where does it go? So, what's going on here now? Why don't you give the contracts that the European Union has entered into with the companies? We have asked questions to the European Parliament. We're asking you here. After all, what the hell is going on with the Greek people? Why don't you give a lot of vaccines and go what the European Union says? And the trillion dance now holds well. And the conclusion, to finish what I started. If there was another system, there would also be cooperation between all the companies worldwide and the results would be much faster and much more effective. Now one looks to take another's eye off. They are made for some partnerships, but they have the benefit as a criterion. We have heard today about education. You're not provocative but something much worse. You ask the people to be locked up in their homes. And while the students are in their homes, the students in their homes, the parents are mad at all this, you come and you change the law on higher education institutions and the exams. This is called the 'political success'. Having a people closed up almost a year and not being able to react and you go unscathed while saying that we have war and fight those who fight the war, that is unacceptable. You should know it won't pass. You'll pay for it too expensive. You are not conscious of the indignation of the world. You come in here and you put a new education law, which effectively excludes children...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u231	Mr. Colleague, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u232	I'm done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u233	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u234	That won't pass. You won't be faking us. Do what you want. Take tear gas and anything else you want. That'll shut up sometime. And when he shuts up, he'll make deafening noises and break you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u235	Thank you very much, Mr. Pafile. The first circle of speakers will be closed by Seraios, Mr. Konstantinos Boubas from the Greek Solution. The curtain from the second circle of speakers will be opened by Efstathos Konstantinides from New Democracy, who will be prepared. Mr. Booba, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u236	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Ploris left and I would like him here, because today with this amendment to the first residence...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u237	The bill is Mr. Voridis's.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u238	The bill is Mr Voridis's, but the amendment is Mr Tsiara's. And since Mr Ploris and Mr Vorides are legal, I would like to say to them that Aristotle said: 'Karafeton the dominion'. It's hard to run. I wish you success in your new duties, Mr Voridis. You did well to leave the Ministry of Rural Development, because the subsidies will now be cut - we tabled it as Greek Solution and Mr. Velopoulos - up to 750 million a year. And we'll see what happens in the primary sector. And so are the customs producers in despair. If they can't get the beet as biodiesel by the end of January, they'll lose the subsidy. These are other issues of Mr. Voridis' former Ministry. Now listen, you're causing me with this with Mr.3869 of Katseli. And that's not just about the Greek solution. It is a matter of Parliament as a whole. You did not take a position when we asked you by way of a timely question that we told you at the Schools of Judges - Mr Voridis, first you are a legal officer and then you are a minister and you are serving legal science, just like Mr Ploris - there is a training text that tells the new inhabited representatives and not representatives of Themidas - it is important - 'you will support the banks and you will possibly take out fraudulently to the subjects, that is, the borrowers'. And we're talking about first residence? Tolstoy - again I would invoke him - said that happy families have similarities to each other. Every unhappy family, however, lives her misery separately. And I am sorry that SYRIZA did not take a stand on this, as I personally as Greek Solution informed Mr. Tsipras, as well as Mrs. Gennimata. And the JRC knew about it. And gentlemen, you smuggled the island on this matter. And I am saying this on the basis of what Mr Ploris said, that we cannot interfere with the judiciary. Right. Legislative, executive, court. The roles are distinct. But are we here not guardians of the popular feeling? Are we not guardians in the oasis, in the altar, in the cradle of democracy, in the House, in defending the weak citizen, who loses his job and loses his home with a preconceived decision as a directive to seafarers? Mr. Polakis, we talked about this together. You knew it. I see you're skeptical, because that's the truth. Nobody got in position. It doesn't matter if you say that the Greek Solution said so. Here, this is all about Ventalia, all the parliamentary arch. And we're talking about it? Are we talking about Katseli's first residence? A few channels took off that. "KANDRA", "VERGINA", a channel of Kavala, "STAR NORTHERN GREECE" etc. It was a bit of a channel. They made it a garrison. Why? Mr Tsipras said: 'Seriously?'. Mrs Gennimata said: 'We are not in the right place.' Now we're going to command pathogens. I would appeal to Aristophanes: “Erete is needed before he has come before he has walruses.” I mean, if you're not a rower first, you can't catch the wheel. You need to see how the administration looks. He's got a lot of pathogens. Where should I start? To go from Law 3869 to Law 3863, which divides civil servants into two categories, why do you others incorporate in the heavy and unhealthy health and nurses and others not? So we're bringing our kids back from abroad? We'll give you solutions to the Greek solution. I have also discussed with the Vice-President of the Party, Mr Villardos, how the Higher Council for Personnel Selection is being strengthened and shielded with transparent criteria, so that there is credibility. Where should I go now? I want to go to what they have to pay at night at the C.E.A. and they can't get paid and they can't get their days off. Can municipal officials not be paid to the OTAs, why are they rewarding according to the children's tuition fees? Should I go to the matter of the personal dispute that will lead to objections to the employees? To go to a lot of issues that the wider public sector has pathogens, gentlemen. And you know that. Should I go to the Panhellenic Forestry Association, which says that by changing specialties you only make in 2020 three recruitments or going to the law of Mr. Brutsis, the former Minister, who does not see the age limits of civil servants? It goes according to Law.4336, in the memorandum. Are we talking today about civil servants when you cut them off the Christmas, Easter and the leave allowance? And go legal, because the Minister is legal. I am not, but I call on Law 4093/2012, what happened in the Council of State with the F Department, which was contrary to these cuts. Because the public officials who are the backbone of the administration - such as small and medium-sized enterprises are the backbone of the economy - find them as permanent mortgages and tax them. Is that how the civil servant can pay off? Listen, gentlemen, we in the Greek Solution say: Good wages, strong wages for the wider public sector and not allowances. Benefits are easy to cut for election reasons. They're coming and going. But here, if we want Greece to keep up with it, we must create infrastructure with officials who will also have education. For this structured interview, which I don't know from whom it's going to be, why is the civil servant resenting? Because it has to resolve bureaucracy, because citizens are waiting for them to be indignant in line, it does not have the right conditions to work. And there are real civil servants who give their own good. And if you don't have a well-paid civil servant, he can't go to the market for'settles' too, so that he can work for the small and medium-sized enterprises that are currently struggling. You gave the euro channels and they narrow all the channels from DIGEA which are a robbery to them. It's also the sinful story of the IP that Mr. Vernardakis has done against SYRIZA. I'll talk to you all about it. And it goes and I am advertised by SKAI to go to Bulgaria, because the ski resorts and the chalets are open there. Do you understand what we're doing? Double tableau? He's taking money on the Greek channel, and he's advertising this? It could be legal. It's not moral, gentlemen. It is not moral to tell Greek "go to Bulgaria for safe winter holidays" and to be an advertising message, to be a spot. We will say a lot about 'DIGEA'. Because there must be no monopoly on the channels. They should be able to button the ERT as well. Why are we paying ERT? Mr Voridis, if you want to have a credible Higher Staff Selection Board, you will do what has been done once in ancient times: two thousand judges went to Ancient Elijah and one, five hundred to five hundred to one, to have one single number, five hundred to vote. Make a table that we have on the evaluation criteria for sworn men, if you want, ratingers - I say, as are the sworn accountants - examiners in the ADP. You made a painting of economists, doctors, political engineers. Two days before the competition, put them in a draw. It will be very good for him, someone says "Macis Vorides, a lawyer" and below being a "evaluated ratinger of the ASP", to say "Villiardos Vasilios, economist, evaluator of the ASP, approved, vow". And it's done by a draw so that the examiner doesn't know who's gonna be the scorer. Go ahead and do that. There won't be any suspicions. If you want the commission, if you want the supervision, the caretake of the AAP, yes. But the ratinger will be here lately, not knowing in advance who will score him. That's how you easily create a painting. You pay him for his work hours in terms of supervision, rating and examination, and you immediately upgrade the system, because it may be good for the law of Peponis, Law 2990-Abstinos Peponis - which is controlled by the House in constitutional and judicial terms, but you shield him further. That's how you create future deposits with a reliable system. And we as Greek Solution give you this solution, because behind every problem there is a solution. If there's no solution, it's not a problem. And as much has been heard about capitalism and socialism today, I conclude with what Winston Churchill once said: "The greatest flaw in capitalism is the unequal distribution of wealth. The greatest and stable advantage of socialism is equal distribution of poverty." And that should put us into thought, ladies and gentlemen. You go to a bill that once again is epidermal. So we don't bring the kids from abroad, so we don't shield them. Make contributors with heirs now, evaluate them in an abstract, reliable system so that there are no suspicions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u239	Thank you, Mr. Booba. Mr Efstathos Konstantinides from New Democracy has the floor. Have a good year.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u240	Have a good year with health. Congratulations to the Minister, we should welcome him to his new position and wish him a good and creative term. I will now start my position by referring to the great struggle to tackle the second wave of pandemic and to alleviate the consequences of the third wave that is currently scanning Europe, but also to the proper implementation of the vaccination programme of a very critical issue in the process of exiting from this multi-dimensional crisis. At the same time, however, I should also like to mention the need for a gradual repetition of normality, namely social and economic functionality, particularly in regions such as Kosanis, which has been particularly affected by the protracted imposition of restrictive measures and even severe restrictive measures. It understands, of course, that every good-founded citizen is looking for solutions in this complex problem between delicate balances, since each parameter interacts with the others. We must open schools and, as far as possible, the market, but at the same time check the dispersion so that the health system can respond to needs and do not constantly lead to a vicious cycle. It is critical, however, that this effort is a valid and timely one-sided one. Citizens must be aware of the basic elements which justify restrictive decisions. There should be no confusion in society in personal terms, inaccurate, paralysis or distortions. We must therefore all show the necessary responsibility. Good knowledge of the epidemiological data by citizens is an essential condition for demonstrating individual consistency and social responsibility. Now on the requested legislative initiative of the Ministry of Interior, I would say that two main assumptions are recorded first. The first is that the value of ASAP as an institution serving in the twenty-six years of its life the principles of impartiality and transparency and shielded the citizen's trust in the State in the sensitive recruitment process and the staffing of the public sector. The second is that despite the many legislative interventions that have been made by its founding law, it is now concluded that the system needs to be strengthened, improved and modernised, since it has technical weaknesses, gaps and arrhythmias. The need for this review therefore arises from the following three questions and may the Minister for Methodology forgive me. First question: Do Greeks believe in the objectivity and non-biasibility of the recruitment process through ASP? Answer: The vast majority yes. Second question: Do they feel that the process is simple, clear and evolving within a reasonable time? Answer: definitely not. Third question: Do citizens consider that the current recruitment criteria and molecules lead to the choice of the most appropriate people for the administration of the public? Answer: probably not. There are therefore deficits in the programming of recruitment, the definition of criteria and the time-limits for the completion of the notices, issues to which the draft law under discussion gives answers and further reinforce the conditions of evaluation, transparency and objectivity. At the same time, however, there is also a mixture of dispersed arrangements with their incorporation into a single legislative text. Undoubtedly, the most essential aspect of the legislation is the introduction, since the possibility already existed of a central recruitment planning by holding a full-scale written invitation to fill staff, permanent and undetermined scientific staff for the categories of IP, TE and TE on a regular basis every two years following recruitment planning. The aim of this is to assess the knowledge, skills and work efficiency of the competitors. And how will that be achieved? With the transition from the current system to many outdated, dry systems, I would say that, which assesses only or primarily the formal qualifications in a new system that examines knowledge, but also the other competences of the candidates. Of course, in view of the fact that this is an independent authority, but also of ensuring transparency, the way of sorting, the place and timing of the tender and the supervisory bodies of the procedures will be laid down by the central committee of competition. It is understood that applicants are given the right to appeal to the provisional tables and all other relevant rights. As far as moleculosis is concerned, there is a wide basis in the written objective competitive process, but additional qualifications are rewarded and professional experience is evaluated. However, it is also very important to increase the ranking of the written tender due to traceability, which will lead to the newly appointed areas staying. That is why I asked the Minister to add to Article 12(1), where appropriate, the municipalities of the regions in transition. When, Minister, the executive cooperates with the legislative system, the result is generally beneficial to the citizens. Thank you very much for your response to my request to extend the increase in rating by twenty-six points due to locality in recruitment by competitions of the AACC to residents of the regional unit of Kosanis. Your response is very important. In addition, the relevant provisions of the bill ensure the participation of disabled people, where the percentage of 10% is increased to 12%, as well as the specific categories of luxuries, third-country nationals, relatives, relatives in the programming and recruitment process in order of priority on the basis of the predefined objective criteria. Furthermore, because the need for the organisational and operational support of the AACC has also been diagnosed, in order to meet the objectives set within the new more demanding framework, the immediate recruitment of workers and the increase in the number of its advisers is provided for. Furthermore, the electronicisation of procedures and the interoperability of the AACC with other bodies will contribute to the savings of resources with an ambitious aim of completing the procedure from the notice to the adoption of the list of nominated persons within 12 months of the about maybe more than twenty-four months needed today. We therefore call on the Minister to implement the draft legislation as his genuine child, in an overall assessment of the draft legislation to be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u241	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u242	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u243	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u244	Only clarifying and complementing what Mr Constantinidis said, I would like to say that I have already tabled, because there was a request from the Members of Parliament of the New Democracy and Mr Constantinidis for the mobilisation of the Regional Unit of Kozani, a legal improvement with which I have accepted this particular request.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u245	Thank you very much. Mr. George Papaliou has the floor from SYRIZA. Can you hear us, Mr. Papaliou? Unfortunately, we are not listening to you, Mr. Papaliou. Until the problem is restored, we will move to Mr. Vassiliou - Peter Spanaki from New Democracy. Good evening, Mr. Spaniard.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u246	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy Government has continued its legislative work on its reform agenda today by modernising the public recruitment system and strengthening the Staff Selection Board. It is a bill which has been announced for a long time and at last today, after a long period of processing that was an intensive dialogue with the relevant bodies, the AACC, but also with the parties, is being introduced into Parliament's plenary and, I think, will be voted on with broad acceptance. The main and long-awaited pillar of the bill is the introduction of the written full-hearted tender with a procedure provided for by the law of Peponies, but had been devalued in recent years. As Mr Theodorikos had said, in the past twenty-six years, 95% of the tenders have been made without a written tender. It is a common assumption that Law No 2190/1994, the Penpie Act as it was established to be mentioned, was an important reform that changed the image of the public sector and was then devalued with various "bugs" and creative ambiguities, I would say. And it's us, the government of Mr. Mitsotakis, who restores transparency to recruitment throughout the public sector. We are the ones who implement the 1994 flagship law and we guarantee transparency and dignity. The beginning was in October with the National Ministry of the Interior bill on citizenship, where, once again after research and study, very serious problems of transparency were found in the process, we replaced the oral examinations that created feelings of subjectivity and opacity and established the system of written examinations of the pan-Hellenic type with constant examinations twice a year, correcting the written ones in the way they were in the pan-Hellenic examinations for admission to higher education by creating a bank of issues and special care for people with learning difficulties. The entire procedure for filling posts is described in detail in the second part of the draft law. The aim shall be to make the first complete written invitation to tender no later than the third quarter of 2022 and at least one written invitation to tender every two years. If there is time, I will refer to the articles in more detail, but I would like to say a few words about Article 13, which includes the arrangements for the specific categories of candidates, the multitude, the three-tiers and their relatives, the disabled and so on. The competition framework includes all those protected groups for which special care is taken to ensure a certain percentage of recruitment. Specifically for multitudes the coverage rate is set at 16%. The minimum percentage of importers for polytenes is currently at 15%, which was set up in December 2016 with L.4440/2016, while until then it was 20% on New Democracy's governments. I would like to stress in particular, because there was concern on the part of the multiple families, that the public consultation procedure was at 10%. I also tabled a question on 18 November 2020 on this issue in order not to reduce the 15% rate if it is possible to increase. The Government of New Democracy, in response to the request of the Hellenic Supreme Confederation, not only reduces the rate, but increases it to 16%. The polytexts of Greece should not worry as the New Democracy Government has long supported multiple families, adopting various appropriate measures at all levels and fully aware of the serious, perhaps even irreversible demographic problem of the country, which also appeared to be in the recent remodelling on the initiative of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis to establish for the first time at the Ministry of Labour a demographic policy and family portfolio. Similarly, there is concern in the draft three-tier law with 12% coverage rate, 5% for parents and relatives of AMEs, while in Article 6 the recruitment procedure for disabled persons is set out in detail, which remains in the same direction as today. However, it increases the coverage rate from 10% to 12%. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a key priority and choice of the New Democracy Government. They are the pillar of our policy, the transparency and modernisation of public administration throughout the whole of it. The strengthening of the public sector with appropriate staff for the better service of the citizen, for the daily service of the citizen and, of course, for the savings of public money. We give opportunities to workers and young workers who the SYRIZA government had forgotten them. We are bringing real growth, even though we are in a major health crisis. The main thing is that we are growing and modernising Greece. In these words, I call on all of our Parliament's wings to vote in favour of this bill, this government's reform initiative, which is part of a series of legislative initiatives that have already been passed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u247	Thank you very much, Mr Spanakis, for keeping time. Mr. Biagis from the Change Movement now has the floor. Good evening and a good year, Mr. Biagi. We're listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u248	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, today we are inaugurating the legislative procedure for 2021 and discussing the first in a series of legislation in Parliament. One would expect, given the economic and social conditions and the problems that have arisen from the pandemic, that a bold bill will emerge from the government, if you wish, in the way in which the candidates are chosen through the AACC to serve public administration. However, despite any communication aspirations, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, addressing your electorate, this draft law only looks like an incision to public administration. And that's because society now has knowledge and memory. Your political practice, but even this recent remodelling has proved your political profile and political profile a great deal. You are a government deeply conservative, highly customer-extremely party, and even to such an extent that your main and primary concern is the settlement of all the "blue" executives, the creation of a wide-ranging government-shaped form of such that is no longer opposed to any principle and value, even to the so-called "final state" that you are supposedly composing. If you want, then, today really to talk about dignity, transparency, equality and equality, I assure you that all of this is guaranteed by the formation of the treaties and the guarantee of equal opportunities for all of the state itself. Ladies and gentlemen, let us refer to Article 6 of this bill in which this principle is being circumvented, as people with disabilities are excluded from a number of principles and at the same time from the principle of equal treatment, due to disability or chronic diseases, without even considering the suitability of the candidates through medical advice, when those disabled persons are in special training and training workshops, are trained in qualifications referred to in that paragraph. So this is how you create automatic blockades. Furthermore, with regard to Article 29 for workers in creative centres, I too should like to point out once again the following: it is very important to add the special service for these workers and to take account of them. It is the time of these workers, it is their trouble, it is their chronic efforts and, in particular, the offer, for example, of "Help at Home"...multiple and insignificant, I would say......in the homes of the people of the third age. In your sense, then, almost all the servants currently in these structures will be out of permanent jobs and ultimately out of work. A strong molecularisation of the specific experience is needed for the sectors and services that meet specific and specific characteristics, such as those characterised by CCIs, CCIs, both because of the category of staff and the relationship between trust and security developed between young children, disabled children and staff in structures, as well as the valuable experience and specialisation acquired over these years by workers serving this institution. Let us not forget that it was also the Prime Minister's commitment to these workers. So, should we consider that this promise as another one then, the Prime Minister will leave it aside, will he forget it? Ladies and gentlemen, reform is not the mass appointment of posters to Maximos and Ministries. The reform is not the control and centralisation of SMEs and the highly selective state financial aid. The reform, of course, is not in any way the draft law on the supposed regulation of recruitment in the public sector and the strengthening of the Staff Selection Board, no matter how much you want to present it as such. Reform is to provide, predict and legislate for equal opportunities for all and not for a few. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear now that the political game you are trying to set up and the political gain you are trying to take advantage of. It is clear that in the post-COVID era income, social and class inequalities will be intense. So you, with this draft law, have been trying since today to ensure that in the first competition in 2021, you see, there will be a place for the "blue" children. So you've done it in the past, so you're trying to do it today. Ladies and gentlemen, can the targeted empirical knowledge or a candidate's qualified postgraduate be ignored and his recruitment depends almost exclusively on an instant examination? And of course I'm talking about Article 12. It is a mechanistic and equivocal concept that underestimates the overall effort and ultimately the academic and professional profile of each candidate and each candidate. Would you like me to express my real concerns? Instead of a society of equal opportunities, a society of intense inequality will be created. A heavy industry, as usual, will be set up, as will be the case, in schools, centres and competitions of the AACC, where financially sound people will have the first and last word. [[At this point the First Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Ladies and gentlemen, unemployment is growing, the crisis is growing and the third wave of pandemic lies before the gates. It is now utopian to discuss bills that no longer give solutions to the real problems of our young, unemployed citizens. It is necessary in this regrettable scene of uncertainty that is being shaped by changes in substance and not by impressions such as the ones which the Government of New Democracy is trying to make. There is a need for a radical change of attitudes, a wide-ranging opposite policy exercise than that pursued to date, where equality will replace inequality, the customer system of hostage will be replaced by productivity and the upgrading of the public sector will be promoted by the choice of excellences and competences rather than virtues. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress that when the PASOK deposited the Peponnes Act in 1994 it was originalised, revolted, changed a page in public. Today, in the Change Movement, in the successor shape of PASOK, we cannot consent to the alteration of the Penpie law with personality tests, with interviews, evaluations and committees recommended by the government to pass through the back door its party ruffles. We cannot and do not want to allow this to happen in agreement with our vote, and that is why we shall vote against it. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u249	And we, Mr. Biagi.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u250	Mr President, there has been a technical problem that I have restored. If there's a possibility, I can take the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u251	So now Mr Papaliou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u252	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, another false draft is being put to the vote. Its title repeats the words'modernisation' and 'aid', such as in the titles of too many other bills. These words do not correspond to reality, they do not respond to the truth. Ladies and gentlemen, the ASA and the pan-Hellenic examinations for admission to universities are perhaps the only commonly accepted institutions that Greek society trusts, since they have become established in its consciousness and are recognised as unfounded. Therefore, any attempt to modify and circumvent their institutional framework causes scepticism, objections and reactions. The establishment of the ASA with the law of Peponies is the most serious reform - a real intersection that took place in the Greek public administration. It has incorporated and applied as far as possible the principles of objectivity, impartiality, dignity, equality and transparency. The New Democracy Government is legislating on an important issue, as well as on many others that it has legislated to date, with the House being in operation. There are restrictions even on the number of speakers via Webex. It is therefore doing so by presenting rules already in force, in this case as the new Republic's imported reforms, that is, it is doing so for communication reasons, but also further by promoting its party state. It is attempting to marginalize the AACC by a government that has multiplyed the posted employees by reducing the predicted qualifications and increasing their earnings. You do not introduce any innovation into the public sector recruitment system. Those presented as innovative elements, such as strategic recruitment planning, the conduct of written tenders, the adoption of consolidated notices, the further simplification and digitisation of the relevant procedures, the electronic submission of applications and requests for supporting documents and the strengthening of the AACC in general have already been institutionalised. Thus, the bill incorporates an informal codification of digitised regulations and policies applied. In particular, the APRC is supported with new jobs, except with top positions, which do not serve its mission, but only serve the connections to its administration and the people themselves. The reform that appears to be a new way of recruiting the public, i.e. all-Hellenic written tenders, is already provided by the founding law of the AACC and has been conducted in the past. Indeed, these will be carried out by the Central Committee of Inquiry, by a majority of non-members of the AACC and without allowing candidates to submit objections after the end of the procedure. Unprecedented! So this right or rather the next written invitation is foreseen for the third quarter of 2022, a period not politically unsubstantiated and possibly pre-election. It is thus cultivated and it is likely that a right of expectation will be cultivated for many of our fellow citizens and it will also be the subject of pre-election promises. In other words, it is a trade of hope that the candidates and their families will be held hostage in exchange for the vote. This alone is a glorious field for micro-political practices of the "Blue Mavroyaluro" type, in which the New Democracy has made a career. And in the meantime, until then, "by the window" recruitment will give and take. In any case, this is an extremely costly process for the candidates themselves, which will amount to tens of thousands, and it is certain that they will come to the aid of care centres, which will blossom consistently in economic terms for the candidates and their families, which will also strengthen social inequality. Following objections and pressure from operators, as well as from SYRIZA and the other parties to the opposition, the original version of the bill concerning important conditions - criteria for recruitment has been weakened. This concerns both the depreciation of work experience and its illegality and academic qualifications, which are of course still low in terms of mobilisation despite the fact, I repeat, that some of its legal improvements have been reduced. It also concerns the complete absence, in the first version, of language learning as a mobilized criterion, where legislative improvement provides for the mobilisation of foreign language knowledge, a unit for only one foreign language and a half unit for the second. Ladies and gentlemen, the establishment of horizontal and uniform criteria, irrespective of the category, sector and specificity of the positions declared, is not justified. Common sense and basic knowledge of the functioning of the public sector require a different weighting of the criteria for hiring an administrative officer and a technical, mechanical or veterinary surgeon. Is it possible to fully ignore the targeted empirical knowledge or a skilled master’s degree in engineering and its recruitment depends almost exclusively on an instant examination? I'd say no. In conclusion, a holistic view of the recruitment process should be made by finding the best equilibrium between written examinations, qualifications and work experience, which is the necessary Treaty for the success of the system. This is not the case with this bill. With regard to speeding up procedures, there is nothing to strengthen it, since all the documents will be submitted by the candidates and the checks will be carried out under the well-known time-consuming procedures of the past. Nor is there any provision for an automatic search for supporting documents, nor is there any communication between services. In addition to this in the bill, a number of provisions are included that allow for the reintroduction of past customer practices.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u253	You need to close up, Mr. Papaliou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u254	The reintroduction of the positions for which an interview is to be made, with great molecules, special tests and additional competitive procedures, leaves room for a wide range of rhetorical 'blue' arrangements. After all, the practices of the Government of New Democracy during the seventeen months of its government leave no room for optimism.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u255	Close, Mr. Papaliou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u256	I shall conclude, Mr President. The continued bypass of the AACC, derogations from the single mobility system, direct positions of heads without crises, poster positioning in positions of responsibility of the permanent administrative hierarchy, derogations from public procurement law constitute a mixture of opacity and adequacy in the functioning of the public sector. Unfortunately, these elements, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, are in the DNA of your policy and do not change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u257	We shall now proceed with Mr Anastasios Prussakis, Member of the New Democracy. Mr. Treasury, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u258	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law introduces innovative reforms in terms of the staffing of the public sector and the way in which the AACC operates. An effective public sector requires, in addition to proper procedures, an appropriate human being in an appropriate position in order to meet the complex needs of the time, serving the citizens. Reform and modernisation of the public recruitment system through modern digital processes that further ensure objectivity, dignity and transparency are achieved. At the same time, the immunisation and strengthening of the independence of the AACC is achieved. It is introduced as a central procedure for the recruitment system in question, the entire Greek written invitation to tender, a procedure which will prove in substance the integrity, training, skills and ultimately the suitability of each candidate. A combination of trials, evaluation, knowledge, skills and personality elements will ensure the selection of excellent ones. At the same time, the fragmentation of selection procedures will disappear and a single recruitment planning will be served. The long-term procedures, which may even have reached two years from the notice to the intake, are ending. The government once again proves its social face. For people with disabilities, the current priority procedure remains, however, increasing the percentage of 10% currently in force, to 12% of the predefined posts, incorporating the percentage of Law 2643/1998, while socially protected groups such as polytexts, third parties fortunately and relatives with disabilities respectively. Mr Minister, the Ministry recognises the long-term need to serve services in the outermost regions, maintains and strengthens the localisation premium, both for island regions and municipalities with a population of less than ten thousand. Those who have experience in public administration and we have served with consistency and commitment are well aware that there are areas where there is a problem of staff restraint over time. The issue has, in fact, recently raised to me by Mrs Lina Mendoni at a teleconference we had on matters relating to her responsibilities in relation to Evros. As we visionarily plan for the cultural treasures of Evros cannot be implemented without executive capacity. On the occasion of this debate I tabled a few days ago, ten days ago, a written question to the Ministry of the Interior and I notify it to the Ministry of Finance, with three targeted proposals concerning those who come from or remain registered in the polls or maintain real estate in Thrace and the islands of the north-eastern and south-eastern Aegean, but live in another region of the country. Firstly, I proposed that they be granted a premium through the competitive procedure of the AACC in order to choose to return, re-entry at the place of origin, the place where they were born or their interests and stay there forever. In this way, the services will retain their staff and so we will block the population contraction of remote areas. Secondly, I have proposed the premium - mobilisation of civil servants from the regions mentioned above - to return either through mobility or through transfers to this body. Finally, I proposed that the market-building subsidy should be re-examined for those civil servants who work in less prosperous areas, a measure that was abolished in 2011 because of the memoranda. The measure may be adjusted depending on the financial costs, for specific inaccurate settlements in the northern or central Evro. The written question with my proposals, Minister, has been warmly answered by the local society, which recognises the benefits of it. The time margins, of course, did not allow for careful consideration or even the immediate adoption of my proposals in this legislative procedure. However, I look forward to the answer under parliamentary control and I expect the Minister, who is listening to us today and is particularly sensitive to the extreme region, and so will the Prime Minister, to evaluate and include in the next legislative procedure - a procedure that I have tabled. Ladies and gentlemen, the next day from the pandemic must find the country legally shielded so that the government begins to implement reforms. The role of the public sector will be crucial. It's the most useful tool for a government, for a people. In order to be effective, it must be strengthened with the best staffing potential. Our country needs a reliable public sector, capable of meeting the demands of the economy and the daily needs of its citizens. The draft law under discussion ensures a new process worthy of the challenges we are facing, and that is why I am voting in favour of this bill. Thank you very much. Happy year, blessed and lucky.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u259	Thank you. Mr. Spirtzi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u260	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, a good year in health. It is not enough to highlight the magnificence of the Mitsotakis Government's destructive work and public administration, but when we and the citizens of some of the New Democracy Members are listening, we really wonder whether they are in our own country or elsewhere. I've heard the good-looking Mr. Plearis. I understand the pleasure of seeing Mr. Voridis in the government headquarters. But, Mr Plori, you said that the left and socialism wanted and wanted the state to be controlled by a small group as a whole. Mr. Flouris, you are in Parliament, you are one of the lucky ones who have a natural presence. Go for a walk in Maxime to see the application of what you said. It is the core of the state of service, the anti-constitutional state of Mitsotakis. You've done it, no one else. Did you talk about media control when journalists are fired from private channels or are they stopping broadcasts from public television? Mr. Plouris, because whenever I hear you, I have the feeling that you have not grown up in our country but in another country and that is how you have a political burden that comes from it, so to bring you back to the historic memory of our country and the far right part of your party, to complete your political plan, you must probably introduce the social certificate, so you are doing well with these laws that you bring. You can go on. To come now to the draft law of the AACC, if we compare it to what the Government declares about the so-called 'historical' reform of the law of Peponnes, compared to what has done nineteen months, only as a joke can be seen. Historically you have a bipolarism in the New Democracy, that it is socially acceptable that any real incision has been made in the direction of merit, transparency, equality, democracy, praise it, while fighting it from the first day and trying to circumvent it and cancel it. And in the law of Pepongi you have done the same from the first day until today, but also in other institutional frameworks, such as the public procurement law, which you have taken his eyes out to him in order to proceed to direct awards, to 'grey' procedures, bypassing any control of legality, any transparency provision, to lay down specific provisions, for example, for the natural destruction of 'Januan', other for Evros and so on. I would like to point out something, Minister, because it has not been repeated by another government, and it is a courage to demand that the Civic Anti-Civilisation of Public Procurement and not come to the House, which should be the property of all Greek citizens. But let it be. These are the phenomena of the state of Mitsotakis. You voted for this anti-constitutional law, you stuck it all together, you modified your own law to nineteen months, fourteen times, and the account of the state of service is seen in the shipwreck of dealing with the health crisis, the lack of vaccination centres, the lack of vaccines, the lack of syringes, our five thousand dead fellow citizens outside the ICU. I'm afraid so. At the same time as you are giving hundreds of millions - since we are talking about pandemic and the public sector - you are giving hundreds of millions of companies without taking the public share, such as in the other European countries, when you are introducing special award laws, at the same time you reject the amendment we tabled to you on 21 December in committee for those who are fighting the pandemic on the front line. So you rejected the exceptional financial assistance by paying a monthly wage to whom? In our doctors, hospitals, nursing staff, EKEB, paramedical personnel, OTA staff and cleanliness and social structures, those that Mr Mitsotakis said have stopped being invisible and said good morning, guides and auditors in urban transport and subway, workers in police and municipal police, those who especially support so much, supposedly, all these years, workers in closed structures, teaching, scientific and support staff in special education. You've turned that down, the other way you're bartenders. Minister, you are the government of the collapse of the Greek economy once again, of the bankruptcy of hundreds of thousands of fellow citizens and companies, of the creation of thousands of unemployment posts, of the absolute immobilisation of public and private investment and of old-fashioned communism. You abolished multi-annual planning. You've abolished the managers' register. You have abolished the independent procedure for the thematic Secretary-General. We abolished your own announcements for a smaller state, remember what you were saying at the time. You have increased the pay and the number of retired people, but you have reduced their standard. You have adopted anti-constitutional provisions and transferred all the responsibilities of the Ministerial Council, the ETP, the Athenian Agency, the ERT, the Government's Journal to the "monarch" Prime Minister. And by the way today you are coming with the anti-constitutional state at last to tear down another institution that has won the trust of Greek society, the ASA. I'll tell you what you've done. If you believe at least what you are saying today, you should have an article that abolishes the exceptional provisions you have adopted in a hundred laws. Let me remind you of the 'ENTERPRISE GREECE' competition, complete, which you abolished and then put everyone you want. Exceptionally, ASA. Let me remind you of the Civilian Ministry of Protection of the Thousand Five hundred Special Guards outside the AACC. It's all ruffles. The same Ministry recruited a thousand two hundred border guards outside the AACC - all ruffles - with a commission of three ELAS officers. You're humiliating the Greek police, too. You proclaimed the university police today. You will be serving it with 'love only', with these procedures. I would also remind you: in the General Secretariat of Civil Protection, ninety-three people without the participation of the AACC. In Civil Protection dozens of posters out of APA procedures. In the Immigration and Asylum Secretariat, there are two hundred, seventy, non-ACP. The list is long. With the development companies - did you live as Minister of Agriculture - and the development agencies what are you going to do? After three changes you have put the private sector in order not to answer as Minister of Agriculture EUR 500 million from LEADER and so much from the other programmes, from 'THESA' and the rest. Will you put them in the ADP, or will you make appointments outside the ADP to bypass, as you usually do, to each of the three hundred twenty municipalities in the country and then to make programme plans for the development agencies and local authorities to bypass, bypass and the public procurement law? We really expect some answers on these issues. Because if you go on like this, we too will be tempted to resort to these programmes and be sure - you are a very good legal person - that they will fall. Why do you make twenty-one member of the AACC's command thirty-five? Why do you want this independent principle to be made more dependent on dependence? Why do you want to alter it to check it out? He said Yannis Ragusis before for the third quarter of 2022 that will be and is an election year if you don't find a window. To extend a little of his thoughts because, until then, you have established that you are being chosen by the process of the priority series for these two to three years. Let's see a call like this at the Municipality of Athens. You took out the contract notice a few hours and you go in a priority order? Whoever you've notified! That's how it's gonna be for two years?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u261	Mr. Spirtzi, I've left you two and a half minutes and more. Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u262	I need a minute, Mr President. There has been a great deal of tolerance throughout the whole meeting since the morning. If you'll excuse me, I'll be done with you. Let me tell you about the two hundred years since the '21 Revolution. Since the New Democracy has re-established the interview procedure, then if you look at the press, you will see that question was "What is the small name of Kolokotronis?". Now you'll take it down a little bit, and you'll ask what's the little name of Thodore Kolokotronis. I also wanted to say about the presidential decree of the engineers you have suspended.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u263	Forget tax. Shut up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u264	I wish, Mr President, that the Mitsotakis Government, the Government of the Final Bowl, finally find the window it seeks, finds this window and leave the window, the window it will find, for the sake of both our country and our people. Have a good year.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u265	Thank you very much. We are moving on with Mr Georgios Karasmani Member of the New Democracy. Mr. Karasmani, are you ready?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u266	In order not to waste time and because Mr Polakis next is in the Chamber, I give the floor to Mr Polakis. I would ask that we correct the technical damage that Mr Karasmanis obviously has. Here, Mr. Polakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u267	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Minister, Mr. Voridis, you're laughing. In the end, we'll see! I have an order for you. I have an order. And we need to start talking from the orders. Because they are from people I love very much and they are shepherds, they are farmers, they are oil producers from Crete. Because we have entered an election year, as it seems - because Mr. Vlassis is mad about taking phone calls from all the expatriates abroad and asking for support for the final government of Mr. Mitsotakis, telling them that the "ORUC REIS" is rather harmless going through and that now they have to honour the Prespecies Agreement - you have to make an account. You were at the Ministry of Rural Development. Mr Vorides, you will remain in history as the Minister for Rural Development who, in the year when he was Minister, gave the single payment to farmers, namely EUR 165 000, at the end of the day, is missing EUR 165 million, despite the supplements. 10 percent missing. We've counted it. That's what's missing. Where's the money, Mr. Voridis? Where did they go? Where are they ridden? They are missing from the farmers' accounts now EUR 165 million.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u268	You are from Crete and the...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u269	I am. And because I am, I'm telling you. Because I talk to people who see the booklets, they tell me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u270	I because I love Crete, I won't answer it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u271	Secondly, you took EUR 126 million from the second pillar, which was for investment and technical consultants, and did so in the code for exceptional coronary aid and gave the oil producers throughout the country at a price of EUR 30 per acre, as far as I know, only to the main professions. But there are too many people who make oil that they didn't take. Also, what you do with the record on August 31st stayed outside and many who are mostly professional farmers. But there's also a big mask, Mr. Vorides. You remember last year in Crete when it became panic with biosporum and torch, and I told you that the island has lost 130 to 140m euros income - not aid, income - from the disaster that took place. Thirteen months later, and despite what I have said to you since they could be used but it has made seven to eight months for the committee which has been set up and everything else, the file has been filed and no voice or hearing. So that the 130 million producers lost in Crete and the oil producers, why didn't you move quickly to support this thing? That's your term of office at the Ministry of Rural Development. The other day - after I left, why did I interview you, as I said - did you say with the well-known trade union style, of course - and I have it many times - 'what was SYRIZA doing about 'NOVARTIS'? You're laughing, you're laughing, and your word, aren't you? "What did SYRIZA do about "NOVARTIS"? And why didn't he ask for compensation?' Now we're working? Are we confronting students' amphitheaters? Don't move, Florida. We raised the scandal. We drove them. You still don't admit it's a scandal, Comrade? Can I read you the decision?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u272	You're talking to the plural. And the side is Mr. Plearis. Otherwise, I'm gonna use the article as you speak outside of the bill, and I'm gonna stop you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u273	Thank you, Mr President, for the comment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u274	It's Mr. Floris! Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u275	Okay. Well, Mr. Flouris, I want to read to you the decision of the State Legal Council that is taking advantage of the decision of the New Jersey Court that says it very clearly. And that was what we were expecting to finish, to ask for the compensation, because during this period we revealed what was going on with the invoices of Lover, Georgiadis, etc., the investigation in America was under way. The investigation concluded and said, therefore, that NoVARTIS HELLAS has exploited officials here, in order to influence the Greek government of Mr Samaras to invoice drugs in such a way as to safeguard the profits of NoVARTIS. If you can't read Greek, it's not my fault. If you cannot read Greek - do not have a fight with the President - it is not my fault, Mr Plori. That's what he said here. Will you now proceed to lawsuits, as requested by the Legal Council of State? It's not a collapsing instrument. It says: "seek all the evidence from outside, judicial or extrajudicial, all the information mentioned and for which "NOVARTIS" pays to America for what "NOVARTIS HELLAS" has done here with civilian staff and servants, making use of corrupt doctors obviously 310 million". Unfortunately, your government has made this decision, not when it was the SYRIZA government. Will you move? Or are you afraid the Guardian will open his mouth? He was persecuted by the third prosecution the other day. For the other two it will be very interesting to know what has happened. Has the interrogation started for the first two years that have been conducted with him? I was supposed to intervene the loyal and shrines of Greek justice, when in January 2019, I ask: "Hey, children, since February 2018, has been prosecuted in the Guardian. What's going on?’ And now he's exercising another one. We're going to a third issue, which is about pandemic. I warn you one more time. I've said a lot about the pandemic. We're on the verge of a third wave. You'll see it from the prefectures. For as long as winter comes and cold, there is a geographical distribution of cases in the country. Last law that entered is Sparta now and went down to Fokida, etc., while northern Greece had the big problem before. There's a wave of bad weather coming. We're on the verge of a third wave. I repeat once again: do not just hang on to the vaccines, which, anyway, have not come to the numbers you promised and committed and which Mr Ploris has been re-engaged today that 'yes, we have bought 25 million'. And where are they? Thirty thousand doses, as far as I know, he's here now. At the rate of eight thousand a day, next year he will be vaccinated with two doses of one million four hundred and sixty thousand people. Up to four and a half million, plus another one to two million that will be institutions, no immunity dam is being built. How will the immunity dam be built? That's why I'm saying, don't just hang on to the vaccines. Because people are dying now. From late October until now five thousand people died. And I've said, bring the antibodies. And I'm saying it again. And it's like I'm talking to the ears of no listeners. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] What are you and some of the scientific committee afraid of? That if it turns out that the things that have been proved - that is, outside - act, won't people be vaccinated? Isn't that why you're bringing them? I can't understand it. Now people are dying in units and outside units.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u276	Close, Mr. Polakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u277	I'm hanging up. 80% dies outside of the ICU. A thousand two hundred is a magical picture. He'll resurrect the thing in a few days. Buy these medicines, since there is a possibility, as much as we can. Human lives are being saved. I'll repeat this third time. One last thing I wanted to say. Let me have a word about the bill. I said it before, and I don't want to repeat it. You're bringing a law that you won't apply. Mr. Spirtz said it before. Don't repeat myself. I would remind you of the other ones about a thousand people you hired only with the protocol number. Everything you've done is by way of derogation from the provisions of, and so on. Here Mr. Chrysochoidis will remain in history as Mr. Chrysochoundides. His poor man and his fiancée are putting police in the universities now that they're closed, where the students aren't there.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u278	Close, Mr. Polakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u279	He's bringing this thing now. Right now there's a request to do with the pandemic. Why don't you just permanentise the hospital staff, the eleven thousand five hundred added to the work contracts, the other three thousand added to it, so that the health system can be permanently strengthened by inter-class consultation? Why don't you do that? You're going to contest the third quarter of 2022 to get the results in 2024, to be appointed by the SYRIZA government in 2034, as was done with the ASA in 1998.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u280	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u281	Thank you very much. Don't worry, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u282	I don't have any stress. I could use Article 66(9) and have stopped in the first place. You know what he says.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u283	Everyone has a free will to say what they want.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u284	He doesn't. That is why the Rules of Procedure are written. And you remembered in the nine and a half minutes to say about the AAP. Mr Karasmanis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u285	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is the first plenary session today and I wish it would be the year of health and the vaccination that began to end the pandemic nightmare, and not to relive these unprecedented situations that we experienced and experienced in the last ten months. I should also like to wish the new Minister, Maki Voridis, who has been aware of the issues of the Ministry for four and a half years. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that L.2190/1994 for the ASP, Mr. Pepongis is an undeniable need to put an end to the scourge of rhyphetology and customer relations in public recruitment, but there is no doubt that open 'doors' and 'airy windows' were left open. For example, I will not forget what I lived as a new Member of Parliament in 1996, when Members of the then ruling party reacted strongly to threatening the recruitment of the municipalities if the procedures of the AACC did not enter the local government in order to stop the irresponsible rupture of the recruitment of the municipalities. In democracy and politics there is no fascination that eradicates the past. Therefore, we must recognise the mistakes and omissions of the governments that we have supported, whether we are parliamentarians or are political officials. In this respect, today's bill is an important part. It does not annul, but complements the PCA by strengthening and insulating merit for the benefit of the social group and especially the young people, whom we owe to give the opportunities and opportunities they deserve. It is the result of exhaustive dialogue with all institutional and social and scientific bodies under the guidance of previous Minister Takis Theodorikoku and the Secretary-General. It has a basic pillar of the full-Hellenic written contest in knowledge and skills and becomes the rule for recruitment to the public with exclusive and unnegotiable aim of choosing the right person in the proper place, with absolute transparency and merit. The competition shall be distinguished in two parts. One is the questions of multiple choices, and the other is related to skill and labour efficiency tests. Additional knowledge will also be rewarded, as the rating will be increased according to the titles of studies, such as postgraduate, doctoral and foreign languages. At the same time, experience is streamlined, which is estimated to be up to five years in a uniform way to all those who have it, while the possibilities of hiring young people, in particular, are greatly increased. In addition, in the case of specialised scientific staff, individual structured interviews are introduced in order to determine the suitability of candidates for the performance of their duties in these posts. I consider it very important that the 20 units be mobilised in the written tender given to the permanent inhabitants of small island municipalities, disadvantaged regions and regional units that have been characterised as border and problematic, but I believe that moleculosis should be increased more or better, so that the positions of these categories should be taken exclusively by the competitors in this area. The Minister is aware of these areas, has particular sensitivity to these areas, knows that they are decreasing and I believe he will hear our proposal. We must put a brake on population bleed, keep young people on the ground, stop marginalising these areas and reduce over-concentration in urban centres. At the same time, special social groups, such as disabled people, are supported, and their recruitment rate is increased from 10% to 12% and their relatives are determined to 5%. It must be stressed here that a society is judged and distinguished by the level of protection that ensures people with disabilities. That is why our government has prioritised it as the first priority. Three and tents will participate in the Greek-Hellenic written competition with a percentage of tent-intakes of 15% that is currently at 16% and for the third-tiers from 10% to 12%. On this occasion, I would stress that the demographic problem in our country because of the birth and ageing of the population has taken on alarming proportions with extremely gruesome prospects. I must stress here that the Prime Minister's initiative to introduce a government portfolio for demographic policy and family for the first time in post-cultural history will, of course, also initiate other measures to support multi-faceted families, as well as incentives for new couples to have more children. In addition, the bill provides for special mobilisation for the children of the disabled of war, for children of disabilities and for those who are serving in the Armed Forces and Security Body, as well as for the children and wives of those killed in the events of Cyprus in 1964, 1967 and 1974. Ladies and gentlemen, I have heard from colleagues from the Greater and the Elassian Response from the Step of the House to leave implied for the special guards and the border guards that they were hired on a rhyphetological basis. That's a big mistake. These children were hired by strict molecules, had high degrees in their disinfections, foreign languages, degrees, have served in Special Forces, headquarters officers, and are children who have been hired to police for special missions. In fact, this institution began - and rightly so - in 1999 by the then Minister and current Minister of Public Order, Mr Chrysochoidis. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is self-evident that the reform areas of the draft law are realistically aimed at modernising public administration, namely the qualitative upgrading of services which a favoured country should provide to its citizens. Our responsibility for the future, particularly for our youth, goes beyond governments and parties, is comprehensive and that is why the support for this legislative initiative must also be overall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u286	Mr Kotsos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u287	Happy birthday, Mr President. Thank you very much. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, many years and a good year. I hope that the new time will be the beginning of the end of the pandemic, which is afflicting not only Greeks and Greeks, but the whole world as a whole. In addition, I would like to congratulate the new Minister for the Interior and wish him possible and, above all, productive in a critical ministry. Ladies and gentlemen, I think you should recognise that our Government, if anything, remains firm in its election commitments, despite the adversities and challenges that are happening every day, whether at national level or at the level of a pandemic, whether at the level of immigration and refugee or even at the level of political protection and natural disasters. In spite of all these difficult circumstances, our Government is moving rapidly on to its reformist logic, which is the basis of its election, because Greek women and Greeks, Greek society, chose in July 2019 as the government of our country, New Democracy and as Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis for that very reason, to progress quickly in reforms. To move rapidly towards redeployment of our state. I can even hear Members from me who are in favour of the government, because it is now legislating. But what should be done? Is there a stagnation? The House shouldn't be working? Moreover, this is the notified difference between the Government of New Democracy and SYRIZA. SYRIZA is the power of stagnation, of inertia. We are the power of creation and action, and that is why we are choosing to move forward quickly and to solve pathogens and problems that afflict our public administration and society as a whole, but always according to the principles of our paralysis that are the principles of democracy, transparency and efficiency. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we all agree that, at the time we are living today, at the moment of speed, evolution, digitalisation, the fourth industrial revolution, in this era, we also need a strong, firm public sector, which will at the same time meet the growing demands of the Greek citizen and our society, but also the international environment. There is therefore a need for a public administration with experienced staff, established, with a sense of duty and role, which is primarily aimed at its objective, which is to serve citizens. With the present draft law, then, we prove in practice that we are continuing and moving forward with the logic with which we were elected and trusted by the Greek people, believing in our reformist power. We are therefore creating a modern state mechanism, a modern public administration, which is compatible with the needs of the time and will place emphasis on the human potential that is it, so that it is serious and decent in solving the problems of society. So this draft law does nothing but aim at a state that is effective, modern and friendly to society. We are coming to upgrade and modernise the ASAP, the vehicle we are all confessing to having changed the public administration, which has relieved Greek society from rhysphetology and the customer relationship, which has implemented an objective system of recruitment of civil servants, but which has several issues that need to be resolved or several pathogens identified over the years. And I think that the molecules system has undoubtedly been a very important step towards hiring people to the public, but is it enough? Is that all the standard ratings are enough to hire someone in the public service? Here, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present my experience as mayor for twenty-one years, which I had the luck of seeing the success or the passions of the system. By simply examining the formal qualifications of the candidates for recruitment, we had failures, particularly at the level of the special operators, where you know that in the main tables those who had a high school dismissal, who knew English, who of course also had the certification that they knew how to handle the machine, but in substance and in practice it would prove that the operating licence they actually had was a typical paper, so that they cannot satisfy the needs of the post they were hired, deprive the municipality of the possibility of using either the machine or the possibilities to serve the local society, but - most importantly - they were not able by someone else who really had the skills, the skills, the knowledge to serve this position with the best possible omens. Another issue that existed as a major problem, in particular, in remote mountain communities and municipalities, in island municipalities, in remote public services is the fact that there was no locality, resulting, in particular, in scientific staff or even - even in administrative staff taking up these positions through the ADP - people who did not have in mind planning their lives in this area and all they did from the next day was trying to find ferries or loopholes in order to leave and go to the municipality where they had planned to make their lives or start their family. Result? The functioning of the service, the failure to operate the organization, the problem for the citizens who were not served, the problem for the same person who was hired, and many times it was afflicted because he could not go to his family. I therefore believe that the prediction of moleculosis is moving in the right direction, and indeed the strong moleculosis for mountain, disadvantaged and island regions, which are essentially modern Thermopolysts, dear and dear colleagues, because if they are devastated, they will be lost patriots within the very trunk of our own country. That is why it is important to set minimum working time for the successful person in his post or in the agency, municipality or public body to whom he is hired, because he cannot be hired today and after a year or two he wants to leave. Through the decade the contestant will know in advance that for ten years he will go to this structure, in this particular area, he will plan his life and thus avoid such problems. I therefore believe that, beyond formal qualifications, beyond the minimum period of stay, the examination of objective knowledge, the testing of skills and, above all, of labour efficiency, will ensure to the fullest extent that new entrants in the public sector have all those elements that are necessary to ensure that, with a certain amount of encouragement - because they too are highly qualified - that they work for the common good, for the common vision of the correction of Greek society and our Greece. Of course, here we come to reward...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u288	But close it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u289	Wait a minute, Mr. President. We are going to reward those who have deepened in their studies who have invested in their studies, through the mobilisation of postgraduate degrees, doctors, the second degree, etc., and, of course, we are not indifferent to the vulnerable and vulnerable social groups, such as the multitude, the third degrees and the disabled. Another issue and passionateness of the contest...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u290	Mr. Comrade, you have to close down.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u291	I shall conclude, Mr President. If you want, I'm the last. I've been patient all day. Give me a minute more.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u292	I've already given you three. I see the watch, you don't see it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u293	Thank you very much. One last thing, and I'll close. We are speeding up the procedures, so that there is not much delay from the call for tenders until the results have been published, and so I think that through this procedure we are choosing the best people who can serve with the best possible conditions for public administration, in the effort that we all have to do together to make our Greece better, to serve our society and the Greek citizen on the best possible terms. I am sure that only positive results can be obtained through this process. I am voting in favour and support with all my powers under discussion the bill. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u294	Good. It is time for us to hear from the Minister, who, apart from his position, should answer, instead of eighteen minutes, I will give him twenty-five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u295	If you don't mind, Mr President, I'll use the nine-minute period of my dentistry. It's in your judgment. As you think.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u296	You want your dentistry too. Okay, no problem, fine. Let's go.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u297	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I should like to thank all my colleagues for their criticism and speeches, of course my colleagues in the New Democracy and, above all, for their substantial support for the bill. Look, the truth is that the opposition is in a - in my opinion - awkward position and I will say why. Because here we are discussing a bill in particular. One has to explain his attitude to the bill, to say if he does not like it, because he does not like it, because he is voting against, where he disagrees. And yet, as far as the issue of principle is concerned, he should say whether this bill sees something to which he disagrees in principle. We are not talking here about whether we agree with other aspects of government policy. We will not now discuss agriculture, we will not even discuss whether on other points even the public administration agrees or disagrees with the opposition. Here we are discussing a bill. You have to say why you vote for it or why you do not vote for it. And what did we hear this morning? We have heard that reform is not important and that it is, yes, doing some codification, but rather - very - what it says, the major ones are already in existence. We will see if this claim is correct. Does this claim lead to a vote? I'm telling you it's all right, let's say she's accepted. It's not the way you say it, and I'll explain why, but let's say it's the way it is. Does it lead to a vote? Assuming that it is not of the utmost importance. Then what's the point? Vote on something that is not of the utmost importance, but is positive. Let's go down to see the objections we've heard. First of all, let us see whether this claim is correct. He says it's not important. Why? Because it provides for a pan-Hellenic written invitation to tender for recruitment. Can we talk about this a little bit? You say yes, first of all or not to that? As far as I understand it, you are positive, because the big part, the big issue of this bill is that, in fact, what it achieves is the introduction of a single universal written tender that comes to replace the reality of 97% of the notices. And I'm coming to ask you: is that a good thing or a bad thing? If you said that 'it is bad, because we want to continue as it is', I would understand the objection. But that's not what you're saying. You say that 'it is good, but because it exists, although it does not apply, we are voting against it'. But is that reasonable? Is this a serious opposition? You're standing there, aren't you? Now we go downwards and I want to understand why you have some motives for this profound irrationality of your position and I will explain it below. But let's go further. What other objections have we heard? I have heard all the speakers. We started, Mr President, at ten, I think it's seven, I've heard nine hours of speech and I'm trying to follow the argument on the bill. Yes, sir. So is there another argument? Because this is the entire Greek written competition we're having. Is there any other argument then? I explained his importance. I explained why reform is important. Why isn't it happening? Because this is an objective and why it is also being synchronised - which is not the case - with recruitment planning and therefore we are reducing time. The reduction in time will undoubtedly be beneficial to meet the needs of the public. But wasn't that anticipated? No, there was no single pan-Hellenic competition. Written procedures were provided for, written tenders, but they were per notice and were not matched. It was not connected to times - so recruitment time, competition time - and it completely dismantled the public recruitment programme. I have brought you to the committee a specific example. SYRIZA Programming: one hundred and eighty-seven places for the Ministry of Rural Development. Programming was started a year and a half before SYRIZA left. The request has been submitted. Planning had already taken place a year before the request was made. So we've been talking for two and a half years and a half already, a year and a half with the New Democracy. In other words, we have been talking for four years now since the need for the Ministry of Rural Development was established and it is not over. This is coming to solve. So I ask the parties directly: is that all of it minor? Isn't that important reform? Let it be applied, if it succeeds, how it works. Of course. However, with regard to the legislation involved in Parliament - because, for the rest, you will have the right to exercise parliamentary control and to monitor it - on the position of Parliament, Parliament, what does it say? He says, "No, I don't like it"? There, then, the opposition parties are exposed. But I am also going to minor interventions. Actually, I don't know if it's minor. However, they are secondary to the major that this is. I heard Mr. Ragosi's thoughts. We were analysed by Mr. Raguss. What's he saying? "Why do you do it in that semester?". Because, before that, the terms of office will have expired - Mr Raguss said - I think you said - of the AACC and therefore - to the evil plan - you will have appointed your own people and so - that is not what Mr Raguss said, but it is not over, but I imagine that that is what he implys, it cannot mean anything else in his reasoning - since you have appointed your own people, it will not be intact. Right? That's what I think. This is the evil plan we've been curious about.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u298	Is that what you understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u299	If I understood it wrong, I'd like you to fix it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u300	Read the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u301	That is what you have said with great clarity and clarity. But you will be able to provide clarifications if you do not want to give them now. I, as I have said, always take a vacation as long as they don't take my speaking time. So that's our plan. I come to ask the following question: Have we changed the procedure for the appointment of the members of the AACC? Oh, no. Is there a constitutional provision for this? Sure. So we should be bad and have an intention, which will be manifested in the future, we cannot do that. So that is predictable and respected. Right? That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u302	You have changed the Rules of Procedure of the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u303	Mr. Polakis, who I allow you to speak to me in the native, I say this...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u304	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u305	Two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u306	First of all, do not take off your mask, Mr. Polakis, not for us here, but for Mr. Ragosi and Mr. Zachariadis, who I must protect equally.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u307	I'm away. I have a recent rapid test.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u308	Now that you have a recent rapid test...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u309	I keep saying that, then, is supposed to be the plan. I say this: there will be an end to the term of office at some point. To tell you the truth, I hadn't counted it. Mr. Raguss counted it. The term of office will end then. It will be appointed by the legal procedure. As you know, the APA is a process of broad majority voting by the Conference of Presidents. Parliament will be appointed by a large majority. Let me ask the following question: did SYRIZA not appoint members during his government term of office? So, that made the AAPD diagnosed? And when SYRIZA appoints the AACC improper, but when the House appoints, the Conference of Presidents to the Government of New Democracy will be devilish? Because with what you say you undermine the integrity of the institution. You say that. And you take responsibility. You create a pretext for questioning objectivity in the AACC. And we must protect her and shield her. But that thought leads you to it. You said one more thing. You say, Mr Ragosi: 'But the Committee of Inquiry does not have a majority, it does not constitute a majority of the AACC'. The provision is, however, very clear and specific: 'The Central Competition Committee is first of all established by a decision of the AACC'. Do you question this decision and its integrity? Have you been in this process? Are you questioning the ADP as an institution? Is that the post of Officer Opposition? I'd like to hear it. It is interesting, because it is also interesting in terms of your general logic of the functioning of the institutions. It says, therefore, ‘The Central Competition Committee shall be at least five-member and shall be composed of at least two members of the SAPA’.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u310	How much?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u311	Allow me. From at least two AACC members.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u312	Oh, two.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u313	It is created by the AACC and at least two members of the AACC, with what the AACC wants to put. If he wants to put...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u314	Not from S.H.I.E.L.D.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u315	Mr Ragossi, the order is clear. If the AACC plenary wants to put five members of the AACC, it has five members. If he wants to put three, he's got three. She can't put under two. What's the problem?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u316	It's inaccurate what you're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u317	So the treachery, where you're paying us, is obviously lame.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u318	Speaking of which, where is it going to be decided?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u319	From the minor plenary session. In your opinion, is it a reduced prestige? I ask, Mr Ragossi: Is the SPA? Is it a less prestigious Plenary Plenary?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u320	Don't go into dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u321	It's the plenary...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u322	Yes, it isn't.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u323	Whoever wanted...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u324	First of all, Mr Ragosi - you are an old parliamentary representative - the authorisation is taken by the President-in-Office. You don't take it from the ministers. The ministers when they go to Stepma are the same as you underneath. Although I have seen the times and many of you have completed them, even the seconds, I intend to ask the rapporteurs one, one - and the Parliamentary Representatives - to give the relevant time to put you, if you wish, after the Minister. So please don't take a vacation. I'll give you a word after the time to say whatever you want. Here, Mr. Voridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u325	So from that alone, that is, from the reading of the order, it is clear that there is nothing that you are giving us. I heard a third criticism from the President of the Change Movement saying: 'We do not vote for it, because you have imported many subjective elements'. So what? You've introduced the interview. Where have you introduced it? In those provisions, which provide that there is, in fact, the possibility again by decision of the AACC, to take place when the recruitment concerns positions relating to human safety. At that time, there was indeed an opportunity for an interview in the original text. And I removed that. By the way, that was in the law of Ragosi. This provision, which did not, at the time, raise objections - did not raise objections to the party at the time it was introduced - raised objections today. I, not because I heard the objections, but because I did consider that there is an enlarged field here, which left a great deal of room for interpretation, human safety what is and what is involved and what is not related, which is why I removed it. But after that, I did not understand why KINAL still objected? Because that is what the President said as an objection to the bill. I'll see you around. I still heard: But, you know, you don't have the ability to object to the score. Note: Rating, second scorer, final score, possibility and appeal of court and application for treatment. Do you want us to put an objection? What's the point? So there is no real basis for your objections. But why do you object? Why not? Then we went to the general-class arguments I'm saying. What are general - order arguments? We object, because you are the ones who are appointed posters. I heard from Mrs Merra25's parliamentary spokesman something that really turns us to the epitome of populism, but it was one of those nice things we used to hear. I heard the following: EUR 65 million for post-mortem projects. How many MS are these? Yes, sir. Can I ask you something? They do 65 million afterwards if we consider that the poster was once zero and we have now done three thousand to them. The poster was zero, or do you want it to be zero? Because if you want to become zero, I would urge you to start by resigning from your scientific associates. Make us here a first move to see if you mean what you say. And let me also ask you this: Mr. Varoufakis is not personal....
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u326	Isn't that populism? Are we doing this together?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u327	I'll say why there has to be a consequence. Mr. Varoufakis was Minister. Your government had ministers. Mr. Varoufakis participated in the SYRIZA government. The ministers on SYRIZA don't have posters? Did they or didn't they?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u328	How many did they have? Tell us about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u329	That was the wrong question, Mr Polakis. It's what we're talking about, because you're talking now. Let's go to the following: posters outside OTAs - let's leave OTAs, we're talking about ministers - November 2018, we're on SYRIZA, Mr. Polakis, a thousand eighty-one. Transmigrants outside of LAT 2020-- what are you saying? - Nine hundred ten.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u330	I don't understand. You're lying.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u331	I'm lying, you've got it easy. Can I ask you something? Now let me ask you to haunt the'speaking lies'. Okay, I'm lying. Where did you get it from? I'm lying? Now let's go further.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u332	We'll number the seats!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u333	Take yesterday's publication of the «Privats' Newspaper» to be updated.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u334	That's right, because you're always perfect... [[Noise in the Chamber]] I am very understanding, because as we have said, we are almost short-haired and I understand the appalling character of yours, which leads you to false positions. Why now? So I told you the number of posters outside of OTA. But I will tell you something else about the scientific co-workers. In 2018, they were five hundred eighty. In 2020, they are five hundred sixty-six. Let's go down. How many people have we had poster to the OTAs, that is, mayors, in 2018? A thousand 12. How many do we have in 2020? A thousand five hundred eighteen. Total retired in 2018 two thousand six hundred seventy-three. Total retired persons, the number of the Holy "Privats' Newspaper", two thousand nine hundred ninety-four. Where is the increase caused? From the fact that we have decided, Mr Polakis, to allow the mayors to have some partners of their choice to do their job. Did we finish it?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u335	No, you're lying.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u336	Okay, fine, I'm lying.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u337	... add scientific associates...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u338	Good. Don't interrupt now. Go on, Minister, and don't ask questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u339	I repeat that these are the elements in total.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u340	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It doesn't sound).
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u341	Check them out in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u342	Did you see the painting?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u343	We won't make it until 22:00 by having a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u344	We're lively kids, that's all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u345	Like I say! Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u346	Source: Human Resources Register of Greek State, Ministry of the Interior. You will allow me to respectfully trust you a little more than your own arbitrary position. So, to come to the epitome of populism. But what is the difference from 2018 to 2020, which I said, not from the ministers, not from the government, not from the Members of Parliament, to the choice of the policy we have of course made for the local government, but, Mr Ragosi, from the government and Parliament - to strengthen the work of the mayors, for that reason. I say it because I hear the blue kids. I don't know if the mayor is "blue" or whether he is SYRIZA. I don't know if it's KINAL or what it is. He's the mayor. I didn't sit down to count it or I don't know what it'll take if it gets blue or red or blue or yellow. I didn't ask him or affect him, it's his judgment. So, in order to strengthen the work of the mayors and the mayors to be more effective, we have made this decision, which we support, I am making it clear. We are not giving up our decision. That is our decision. It's our support for local government agencies and the work of mayors. Clear words! But let's go see the difference. The difference with it is three hundred twenty - one. How much do you want? You want 1,500 euros for 12,000.778. Do you know how much aid is - so that we do not hear in here what we have done - to support the economy in the middle of a coronary? It is 24 billion in 2020 and we already provide for 7.5 more at the beginning of the year for 2021 and we go to 31.5 billion. And you're telling me what we're going to do about the five million? In fact, let's go further. But what was the other level of objection? We're very well appointed. You know, in the criticism you've done all you didn't say, I don't know why, you forgot, it's obviously the concept of our rightfulness that we put it, but it's the right-wing quality, but not the ability. I have only not heard that this is what we mean in the sense of skill. So I heard about partyism and all that. Why the party? Because, he says, we've been hiring by way of a derogation. Didn't you say? That's it, we're hiring by way of a derogation. And that's what doesn't make us trustworthy. Who said that, ladies and gentlemen? SYRIZA. Right? That is your criticism. Can I read what the AACC says about the events of 2018? ‘Even more acute problems arise...’ - the ACCF says this for 2018 - "...from what continues to increase the number of special recruitment procedures for regular staff where a different modulation of the standard qualifications is set each time". Do you remember where something typically came here to know something English but at the same time to know Russian and also to have a degree that is a little like that? Do you remember anything like that? That's what they're talking about. If this differentiation, he says, was due to an objective need to treat different situations differently, it would be understood. The PSC, with its institutional experience, can safely provide an assessment that most of the cases of differentiation are not caused by objective needs and differences, but by other purposes linked to attempting to circumvent constitutional restrictions for the conversion of fixed-term contracts into indefinite ones. I didn't say it. Mr. Ragossi, they're not mine. It is the case of the 2018 SAAP for what you and you have done to us because, in the middle of a coronary in a world emergency, we are, in fact, derogating from what you have done to address the acute management needs. So I'm saying this. You are the one who forsakes us for this and you say 'We do not vote'. To why the posters, I answered it. And the reason why we're doing a derogating job, too, I answered it. What else did you tell us, though? You still told us that the right history is a client. Yes, sir. So, let me get this straight, who's saying that? What kind of space does this come from? Because, to tell you here as it is and with a lot of love, the PASOK did not come to power in 1994, which brought the law on the SAAP. A seven-year-old governance has taken precedence. Did any recruitments take place in the governance of these seven years or not? Also, because you are telling me the other argument, and to which I would like an answer, you are discussing and trying to present a caricature of ours, that we are advocating public service, that we want to chase civil servants, that we are bad and so on. You said that in an election. This was a pre-election compensation and a placement which is repeated. Incidentally, in the unions of civil servants, the AACC's sectoral unions have predominantly prevailed in the vast majority of them. I say this, so that we know and understand how these were evaluated by the civil servants themselves. But I'm coming and I'm saying this. We are talking about one by one, we are talking about one by five. You blame us because you say that we want to make fewer recruitments and why we want to change the reason and take it to one by five. I would like to ask again the question: was the recruitment mechanism rational? So, really, the recruitments were made - that's your experience? - on the basis of...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u347	Ladies and gentlemen, we must make a small break in order to restore the sound.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u348	Mr Voridis, now you can continue and close your prototype, so we can go to colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u349	Thank you very much, Mr President. Let me simply present in the minutes the AACC's report for 2018. Also, for anyone interested, I'm filing the figures, as they come up with, on the subject of posters. [[At this point, the Minister for the Interior, Mr Mavroudis Voridis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I would just like to make one more note of Mr Ragus' remark concerning the fact that so far, Mr Ragosi, but also of a draft law that you have recommended, this procedure in the AACC to identify the Committee of Examinations included at least one member of the AACC. We here are increasing it and making it two. So I am saying this about transparency and our intentions. Then, ladies and gentlemen, I heard the following. I heard one of your concerns about my location. In other words, since we are done and have seen that the arguments for the bill are dead, there is a lot of arguments of general order and, of course, they cannot be said from the standpoint of counter-population, we have gone to the personal criticism, to the concern, that is, that in reality, my position will do something, that will do a bad thing to the Left, or to the election process, or to the transparency of the administration, or to its integrity, something like that. And that's because you have invoked some of my specific positions. So let us clarify things. If you haven't noticed, I'm right. I suppose you're aware of it. We have no misunderstanding about this.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u350	The truth is, we haven't crossed it yet.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u351	Minister, please! Keep going and leave the questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u352	It is a rhetorical question, Mr President. They don't need a reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u353	Do you want confirmation from SYRIZA as to whether you're right or not?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u354	Yeah, that's right. There is no need to answer questions, Mr President. It's rhetoric. I am simply saying this because I consider it absolutely legitimate for a Left not to want the Right and a Right not to want the Left to govern. That seems like a regular thing to me. If we on the left are forbidden to say this, I think that they should think about it again, because, you know, our basic electoral aim is to convince us with our arguments that we have a better programme, that you should convince your arguments that you have a better programme. The goal is always one, winning each other. So if you ask me "you want for the next forty years New Democracy to rule?" I don't suppose you'll be sad if I answer you "yes". What did you expect me to say? 'No'? Secondly, yes, but you said that this would be done by intervention in the institutions. I will say for once that the left is the one that says that the institutions produce ideology. It's the Left! And finally I heard a clear position today - not from you, but from the side of the JRC - on his theory of the state. It's not the first time the JRC has said it, but I heard it in here. I have heard what the Left thinks it is the state, what the Right thinks is the state and what the legitimate purposes are. I have heard, in other words, a theoretical debate but with very practical results. So when we say that the institutions produce ideology - and they say it repeatedly, as I have said, the left-wing theorists - I do not understand why the institutions that produce ideology must only produce left ideology, but they must not produce another. And to be very clear and specific about what I say practically, a balancing perception of how to progress in public, a balancing concept of public rating, does not produce a balancing ideology? Of course! So he doesn't produce an ideology that's near the left? Of course! An assessment that enhances diversity, which promotes dignity, does not produce ideology? Doesn't it create a culture of differentiating hierarchy, of merit? Doesn't that bring? Doesn't it produce an ideology closer to the right? [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Mr. President, do I have some time?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u355	Shut up, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u356	Thank you. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] When I talk about these, I am talking about these specific issues. For example, the Left defends, at least in one particular version, a centrally powerful state, which you say on several occasions. It seems in too many of your positions on the responsibilities of the state, on the number of recruitments to serve these responsibilities, on its extent, on your refusal to privatise anything, on your refusal to cooperate in the public and private sectors. This is seen at too many levels. A policy which, for example, strengthens the role of self-government, thus weakening the central state, is not closer to our value code than to a code of central planning? Does it produce ideology or not? So, where's your problem? Unless it's behind what I'm saying, you guys are thinking about a number of yours that have something to do with your own injuries. But not that I call it. I say very specific things. Finally, you accused me, because I said the terrible thing, that hospital administrations are obviously placed by political leaderships and obviously these administrations have political features. I didn't say they had just political features. Apparently they also have merits. But they also have politics. You fell off the clouds. Because you hospital administrations put them through ASP. You didn't do that. You went and said, "Don't, son, I'm opening up the process and whoever wants to come, let him come and I don't know." Is that how it happened? So I do not understand exactly what your question is. But I guess I understand very well what your question is. The fact that for the first time you have in front of you a party that does not stand annoyingly against the Left does not bend the head, denies its ideological hegemony, comes and questions it, and that is what really bothers you. And I close, Mr. Zachariadis, with you. Debate with great pleasure, whenever and wherever you want. But you'll do one with Mr. Polakis first. Why? Because Mr Paulakis said that they are nationalists and far-righters and that I have come to gather the expatriates, who are nationalists and far-righters.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u357	Please hang up, Mr. Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u358	So, as you have said, you will have to discuss this with us if our relatives are nationalists and far-right, and if I have come to collect them or are, as you have said, fine people and of course you want the process and finish your home debate with your other internals - put Mr Vaxvanis in your conversation, which says things - come on, and after you have finished it, we will do one together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u359	We shall now proceed as follows. By way of derogation from the Rules of Procedure - because I have seen how long you have spoken - we will close by giving everyone the opportunity to speak. In turn, starting - in in introductory words - from 'the bottom', I will ask the rapporteurs and speakers and then the parliamentary representatives if they want to speak. Mrs. Bakadima wants to speak for three minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u360	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u361	Here, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u362	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'll talk less than three minutes. I'll start with this. Minister, you wondered in your speech whether Mr. Varoufakis had posthumous or scientific associates when he was Minister. Believe me, he's had a lot less than you might have.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u363	How many do I have?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u364	How many do you have?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u365	How do you know they're fewer if you don't know how many I have?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u366	Look, because I was a partner of Mr. Varoufakis in 2015, I can tell you that we were about 10 people.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u367	I've got ten.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u368	Minister, please. We're not going to do this right now, we've got to get it over with!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u369	Thirty-six have you in the Ministry of Rural Development. You didn't have that many?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u370	Minister, don't make me regret that I am giving the floor. In any case, you'll close it. Carry on, Mrs. Bakadima.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u371	Thank you, Mr President. To close it, twelve of us were the fugitives in Mr. Varoufakis' office. I am pleased that you have ten, because there have also been ministers over time - I am not talking about you - who may have had forty and forty and two. I imagine you know cases. I shall refer very briefly to the Ministerial Amendment, which came a moment ago, an amendment concerning the extension of the outstanding cases of the Katseli Act. First of all, let us say very briefly that overcompensation is a problem that has been plagued by Greek society since 2010 and even earlier, especially in the years of the crisis. The inability to repay the debtors, not because they do not want to, but because they do not have the opportunity to repay them, has widened the situation even further. But after Katseli law in 2010, we have seen constant attempts to curb it and - let me say - to fly out as many people as possible who had really unable to pay, with the risk of losing their homes and their property, at the height of the "HRAKLI" you brought - your Government - a few months ago. Today, then, we see crocodile tears and efforts to support borrowers, while all you care about is the oligarchy, banks and the sale of every citizen's property. And I'm closing up with it. Unfortunately, you should put your hand in the heart and think about whether you want to support the citizens. If you want to do so, it will not be with amendments to short extensions. It will be taking back the Banking Law that you brought before you a while ago, will be taking HARAKEL back, because anything else will remain and be a communal semimeter. Thank you for the time, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u372	Mr. Hetas has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u373	Thank you very much, Mr President. Unfortunately, I'm disappointed. I expressed my disappointment this morning and that feeling I had, that feeling I had strengthened and now that it's late. You know, Minister, it's no longer fun, or if you want it to be of no interest to the world, to take each other's laundry out in the forum. No one's having fun out there. I do not know if you are aware of exactly what is happening in society out there, in what state Greek citizens are in. You think you're in some TV debate and you're unleashing arrows and you're spreading each other's laundry at the forum and you're going to tell us who made the fewer recruitments, the most poster, the most I had, the most you had. Perhaps once, when the Greek had some issues solved, he found some interest, had a good time, but it is now outrageous. I don't know if you're concerned about who you're addressing out there. Are we unbelievable what we hear and then you wonder, Minister, why not vote for this bill? Question: Will something change our life, of the Greeks from this night when the New Democracy will vote in favour of this bill? What's it gonna change? Is this a matter of laws in Greece? Is it a problem of legislating or a problem of party and rotten mentality, of setting up as many as we can, because our minds are to go back to government, get back 30%, 35%, 40%, 28%, and 5%, whichever is the target? It's not a matter of laws, Minister. It's a matter of mentality and philosophy. It doesn't change anything until tomorrow. What did we hear, Mr President, today, a moment ago? "We will relieve public life and society of rhysphetology and customer relations." Really, who do you convince with what you're saying? Who are you convincing? So, for 50 years, it hasn't changed, is it going to change today, on the 13th day of the month, Wednesday? I don't think we're good at all. Mr President, I would like two more minutes. Let me take a couple of minutes from the time of the parliamentary representative, because he will speak only one. Thank you very much. Instead of even convincing us at the last minute to vote in favour of the bill, the first twenty-five minutes of your speech, Minister, you have consumed them, because you have been very concerned about why SYRIZA does not vote, rather than convince us and tell us that tomorrow this state will have a human face and will be a state that will provide basis for merit, worthy, excellent and capable. Because that's what you were saying in an election, and you did the world's vote, and of course you did what you did before, what they did before, what KINAL former PASOK did and you used to do before. It doesn't change anything, absolutely nothing. You served at a poster party, who had most of them, and we burn them, you know, because poster employees are useful, Minister. But as you manage them, those who have ruled, you have made them black figures. Says the other guy's abducted and embarrassed while he shouldn't. But the excessive use and misuse of poster in order to make people comfortable, has put them in the corner, as anyone is ashamed to say that he is a civil servant and is a pity, because there are civil servants - and the majority - who work honestly and are skilled. But overcrowding has brought our country to this point, so that one can say that he is a civil servant and is sadly ashamed. You still talking and what do you say? The 'blue' children, the'red' children, the 'green' children, all that - we said this morning - are your children and your creations. And I'm closing with that, Mr. President. It does not concern society today, this poor society, the poor Greek, who has lost his job, who has no money, who has thrown it to the psychopharmaceuticals from incarceration, who has lost his children abroad, to listen to you and your corporations. When you understand that, we may at some point have luck here in Parliament, to change that country. Until then, go on your own. We are abstaining from this. We'll talk about the substance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u374	I have the honour to inform the House that the Standing Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of National Defence: 'Application of draft conventions in the field of defence'. Mr. Synthrakis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u375	I will not speak, Mr President, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u376	Thank you, too. Mrs. Lykoule has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u377	Our parliamentary representative will not speak, Mr President, so I would like your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u378	Mrs Liikanikali, do not "chiggle" me because you have already spoken twenty-three minutes. I still didn't tell you...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u379	Yeah, and I thought you wouldn't have noticed because you weren't here.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u380	Start and if you get to three and a half minutes, the world's not broken. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u381	All right, Mr. President, they're witnessing, they told you everything. My Minister, I listened very carefully to you between songs and parasites on microphones. But you did, and you did. The way in which we look at things, we do not have the requirement, under any circumstances, that neither you - you - did - look at them from the same perspective. One may see them lit on one side and the other on the other. This also makes our ideological differences exist. Many times we can coexist in fields and find common meeting places for all parties to counterpopulation, but with more difficulty, but with less difficulty. Well, it's a common meeting place. Otherwise it has the thing, though, when someone shows the moon and the other one looks at the finger in my personal approach. And here's what's going on. I have seen you, getting into the debate and starting to sit down, making an ideological approach to reform. But, on the one hand, it is quite simple to ask questions, on the other, by saying what reform is, is this a good thing? Is it good? Good, my Minister, it can be a measure and it can be a lot more, which can be a codification or a modification and a circular. And carpenters are going to make good. Do not have the demand from us, however, that we should not, when the country's Prime Minister himself went through it wisely, I think, because I do not think you have noticed that, 30 November, at the Ministerial Council, he said so - he immediately left the Ministerial Council and said that 11 January - two days have left - we will vote in Parliament on this bill and it will be the first to open the curtain of a new 2021, reformist and blah. Well, you say it's a maximum reform. You don't want an answer to that? What did we tell you? That reform already exists, that there is a written competition, which you as Minister of the Interior now have the possibility of this written competition, this alternative possibility of the Peponnes law, to build it as you wish. So I reverse the question, why did you tell us about the question of the reform. So what restricts you? I would also like to say that the customers, with the 'right' and 'left' marks - I have heard some colleagues who have not been involved in governments saying that - so that the 'right' and 'left' marks at least amuse me. I'm telling you, honestly. If everyone is saying in a direction of a new era with open horizons and other perspectives, which we need to judge, not forget it, not oblivion in the past, hardly there, on the type of sunshine, you can see where your mistake is, your mistake, my mistake, and you should have the whole political system together, because it is not government and opposition and so on, but it is the whole political system responsible for how Greece is at the moment, where it has been found and where it is, if it has a compass, which way it has gone and so on. So we have to agree on very basic things. It's not about how many recruitments were made in '81, '94 or whenever. Tell me what you want, 'cause you mentioned that too. If you go there, I will open up the newest story of post-multipleism and tell you that a hungry world, all of which had a social record, is very natural to claim a place in the sun, under the sun. Let it go. Another big chapter that can't be opened right now and here. But we can open it up, and I think we will have a good time to discuss this very much. So the orientation - Mr President, I am ending - all the rigour and the political system - in my personal approach and perception is, Minister, to find common ground for the progress and prosperity of the place, not theoretically, but with very practical results. And as an example today - to speak practically in the bill, because you have referred to us - you have brought legislative improvements, Minister, indeed positive legislative improvements, as far as the interview was concerned, which you did not even have structured, and you brought this in. We asked you, and you brought it. You have not accepted to be public, you have kept the "atomic".
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u382	But close up, Mrs. Liikali.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u383	Finally, Mr President, the last sentence is quite frank. Also, the security developments, which you said the President repeated, have also been said, but we have also indicated to the committee, Mr Minister, three times, in order to withdraw it again with a legislative improvement. So you saw that somewhere we're useful, even though we're not ruling, and we're not management. We could be even more useful if the debate were held, Minister, and cross-party and cross-border before bringing the bill and learning from the websites.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u384	Those of you who are lawyers, a phrase you say, ten say.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u385	I'm done, Mr. President, here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u386	Okay, you guys are great. We're talking about doctors, Mr. Ragosi, but you lawyers are... Well, we now come to our colleague-general from SYRIZA Mr Zachariadis Konstantinos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u387	Mr President, can I, too, take the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u388	Because you are a long time in the Chamber, although the Rules of Procedure do not allow it, when everyone is done, I will give you the floor for two minutes to close. Mr. Zachariadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u389	Mr. Vorides, I wait day, hour and place for the debate, because I and Paul have found them, you haven't found them in your party. Your statements were made by Mrs Bakoyannis and Mr Kontozamanis saying 'I do not know, I do not respond'. I don't think Mrs. Bakoyannis is a politician who doesn't know. If you don't want to have a conversation, it doesn't matter, we don't have to have a conversation. But if you want and you can stand, I'm here and we're here to discuss everything. But I have to say that you understood us, you revealed us that we were in a terribly awkward position. Here's what happened to us. Have we made the statement 'Who do we put? We are going to Parliament as ministers to introduce a bill which is entitled to transparency, democracy and so on. And you're asking, where you've been following the bill intensively all these days, if we say yes to the contest. Of course we say yes. You have also heard our remarks and incorporated many of them and will appear in the article. I told you both in committee and in plenary. And then, he says, you ask if we're serious. We are serious, because we are making proposals, but are you serious about integrating proposals from political areas that you do not consider to be serious? Tell us, Mr. Voridis, see who's serious and who's not serious. Let's go to the next one, who doubts the AAP. The ones who override it. You. From tomorrow morning you will again begin to bypass the procedures of the SAAP. And here we are. Every week, you will be violating it, as you do every week in the last eighteen months. And tell me, Mr Voridis, this is the same thing in the independent authorities and in the AACC to decide by a majority of 3/5 - that is today - and the same is in 4/5, as has been done in our day, and in a terrible way, in a number of independent authorities, you are blocking the procedures, because you are playing micro-party games because you do not believe in Parliament's control role, because you do not believe in cross-party consensus and consultation on these issues? If you believe, bring it back to four fifths. I now come to the argument with the poster, which you put the voices at the PRA 25, which I asked you in committee, but I did not get an answer. In payroll, did you raise wages for the poster 64% to 70%, yes or no? Did you lower the prototype in high school, yes or no? Mr. Vorides says SYRIZA had more post-calls. Zachariadis says the New Democracy has more posteriori. All right, well, let's go count them, one, one. Do you accept that? Mixed staircases, number them one, one. We're gonna take off the VHFs, put them down and count them. But if they come out above, you'll bring them back where we had them and you'll apologize. You are a terrible lawyer, you are a good politician, but you are a much better cook, because you have gone up to the Step, you have spoken half an hour, you have not summed up the post-calls Mr. Mitsotakis has in the superstructure of the state, those who are in the Ministry of Migration, those who are in the Civil Protection. And because you already wondered how many you had in rural development, you had thirty-six. I'm saying that with the microphone open, I told you before I was closed. Where do you owe thirty-six posters? How many did Arachovites have? Next theme: the big steak colluts. He says: "Do you want to rule forty years on the Right?" "I want", he says. That's what you said. "What more democratic, more parliamentary to win the election for forty years? Wonderful." You didn't make that statement, Mr. Voridis. You said that the ideas of the Left are defective and we need to make institutional interventions so that the Left does not return. That's what you said. Another forty years will take place and the New Democracy will earn them, and the left will not return. Either you like it or you don't like it, it doesn't have forty years, it doesn't even have forty weeks. Because it is time that Greece of the invisible people will speak, Greece will speak of the poor, the non-preferential, productive and creative forces. The majority will return to the progressive party. And can I tell you something? No one can control the social momentum. If anyone could control the social momentum, there would have been neither 1981 nor 2015.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u390	And that's what you're closing up with, Mr. Zachariadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u391	And I'll be out in ten seconds. You're talking about the 1980s being recruited. Of course they were hired. I was born in 1985 afterward. But it is lies that at that time he balanced the black post-war state of the Right, the state of the excluded, the state of the political ideas, the state that you dream and want to rebuild. And we're in 2020, we're not in 1980. Last report. Mr Theodorikos said to him that the campaign to inform the Greeks of their participation in the elections will be conducted with absolute transparency. That's what he said in his speech. He obviously didn't tell me. He told you, Mr. Voridis. So I urge you today to announce the setting-up of a intergroup committee, what your predecessor, Mr Theodorikos, had committed to and did not have a chance to reshape. And I'm warning you. What do you call it? "Philate"? I call it 'drink'.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u392	Close, Mr. Zachariadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u393	We won't accept and we won't tolerate a list of Pechas. Yes to briefing, yes to participation, not to games with unexistent friendly media, not to micropolitical games for the Homogeneity. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u394	Let's go to Mr. Snowides.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u395	Mr President, first of all I wish you a good year, and you too, always be very good and very strict. What I would like to mention is that there has been a great deal of talk, of course there has been more time, especially in matters that do not concern this draft law. From there on they also consumed out of logic of the draft law if it is reform or it is not. Anyway, I say it is a reform, because it is now forbidden to improvise, and every time, to put separate rules into scattered declarations or tender notices. I just want to remind you of the case of a few thousand workers. We love them, too, and we are in favour of stable work. I remember the 3K proclamation in which eight men were given continuous extensions of many eight months and telling the honourable Mr. Skourletis "You know you will do the AAP and the others will be judicially justified". Thus, almost double people came to the public, but not by the right procedure of the right law that applied to the ASP. These are very specific elements and these should not be repeated. This is where a barrier is now. Let's go to a competition that way. I therefore believe that we agree on the main points. Yeah, in the contest, no matter where you say there was, we say now that it's done with a part of the rating. Yes to skills. Is there even one or one here who doesn't think skills should be assessed? Experience has passed. Indeed, the proposals in relation to the foreign language and everything else. I get it and they're accepted. From there on we have to see what is essential. The essential thing is that we agree on too many points if we want transparency. A lot of talk about the experts and scientific partners, regardless of whether they're post-calls. If they are not abstract - I am doing a business case - we agree that the Members, the Mayors, the Ministers need special advisers and special advisers? Yes, sir. So let me take the job case and say that I get civil servants already, which we have many worthy people whom the Minister gets. How many do you want? Ten? Ten. The cost of these people isn't the same as advisers? And we are talking about the cost to the posters. If you take the ASAP, and you have them in your office or the parties or anyone else, too well, don't they have the same cost? So why are we talking about cost? In one case we had zero, and in the other case we don't have one? And the ratio of special advisors to the general government if it is one in a hundred seventy. And isn't there reason that we want people of trust that you can rely on their knowledge and not be anything different? So let us stop that there is a cost and, finally, let us talk about a Greece which is a reality. Do we have the perfect public administration? If we were Germany, we would say 'yes, we don't need so many consultants'. The same thing has been done - and I am going to get away from it - 'yes', he says, 'the government has many members'. The Ministerial Council has today - because the Ministerial Council is the Ministers and the Deputys - twenty-five people. The previous SYRIZA - ANEL government had thirty - three members of the Ministerial Council. Deputy Ministers, assistants, clearly need and need too many to apply better and in detail this big part. To wish everyone, to try, by starting with this draft law, to build a public administration even better, even more reliable, because it is good to choose the best, to see and how they will be controlled and rewarded in the public eye. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u396	We now move on to the parliamentary representatives, again in turn. Mrs. Adamopoulou has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u397	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Minister, first of all, I think that non-popularism and a serious political attitude is when some say to the government specific things with specific figures, or go out and disprove them or apologize. You didn't deny the numbers. You entered the micropolitical process to compare what SYRIZA did with his governance. I have to tell you that the argument you have used is whether I will deny my scientific partner is the epitome of populism. Of course, in the epitome of populism, the New Democracy government with the literally vomited propaganda in which your channels, canalarchs, are engaged each day with the make news. But after you asked me, Minister, I would ask you then to adopt, take a legislative initiative that abolishes the payment of scientific associates extra and we pay them...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u398	Because I'm afraid the system will be shut down again, Mrs. Adamopoulou. And to be brief, because I fear that the voting system will be ruined. Here you go, Mrs. Adamopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u399	I repeat from where my speech was interrupted, Minister. So since you have provoked me, I urge you, too, to have our scientific partners paid from our personal pockets. And I'll be the first to do it. Do you accept your personal partners, ten, twelve, fifteen, who are to pay them personally, rather than be extra burdened with the budget? I also call on you, because you said ten in relation to Mr Varoufakis, the entire final state to testify in the Minutes and to communicate how many partners each of you has, who is their salary and what their qualifications are. Why take care of and increase wages and reduce qualifications. You accused me of populism. Of course, no one has come out personally to charge me with disseminating public money or Mr. Varoufakis. And if he were to blame us, we would hold a very serious political position: we would apologise, which you do not have the emoluments to do. I also mentioned the dismantling of public money in relation to the channels. That's what you've done. You didn't say anything. I have not only referred to the issue of the poster army. Likewise, I don't know if you have anything to say about direct assignments. It is micropolitical that your tactics all the time enter the comparison process, what they did SYRIZA, what you do and make a parliamentary debate. As for health, 'cause that's where the whole thing started, I'm going to talk again with numbers. If you think our numbers are populism, you're abolishing mathematics science. That's what you're doing. It speaks clearly the BLOOMBERG agency, which has said that Greece is in the fiftyth place compared with fifty three countries. It is, that is, almost in the last place at the level of aid from the National Health System, at number of cases, a mortality rate. In a pan-European diagnostic test, we are in the last place. May I remind you that on the basis of your budget, is health expenditure reduced by EUR 572 million? Is that populism?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u400	Good. Now don't...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u401	We are talking with numbers, Mr President, and we are being called populists.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u402	But here we are on the subject too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u403	I'm on the subject.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u404	But we're talking about ASAF today.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u405	I'm answering Mr. Voridis for what he charged me with.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u406	Finish and close, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u407	I conclude, therefore, by saying for the last time that you have to ask for an apology and for communication toys is not served by Mera25, only your Government is doing so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u408	Good. I'm not going to - I've never done it, and I'm not going to do it tonight - take a stand on the posters. You will allow me, however, to defend the dignity of the Greeks and Greeks, which the current government officials, MPs or mayors - and I do not know who others - are taking them as scientific associates because they are people who work, assist and qualify. I mean, there's been a ball and it's like it's nothing. That is what I think I am expressing all of you. Let's move on. Mr. Paphie, do you want the floor for three minutes? Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u409	Yeah, even though I talked...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u410	I've seen it, but it's for everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u411	Yeah, good, all right. I'll make an estimate. The masturbations here are literally a teenage game. In fact, Mr Vorides, you're feeding it, you're not actually getting into it. What are you powering? That we have the Left and the Socialists? Okay, are we serious? With NATO? With the Americans? With capitalism? With the privatizations? With ninety-nine years of public property you said? In fact, at that time I have caused someone - I do not want to say who - to say whether the New Democracy will come out and change it. With all this and you're supposed to be confronting the Left? What Left? The Left has specific features and they're not them. It's the opposite. It's just that it suits you and SYRIZA. I am talking about the main players at the moment. There's a full deal. I proved it with six points.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u412	(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u413	Don't scratch on the slut, Paul, and I'm talking to the native. Now, what's conflicting here? It conflicts who will - I will not say 'the spoon' that the people say, because we can put everyone in the same bag - the management of a barbaric system, which today has collapsed objectively, regardless of whether the world for several reasons is still in the process. But you know the storm starts at sunshine. That's what I want to tell you. There's some clouds coming, and then the storm breaks out, because it's objective and that's what's gonna happen. But that is why only one party so far - we do not know what will happen in the future - tells the reality, the truth and the ideological confrontation. We don't make personal peaks or say - how can I say it? - Things that are a little disgraceful sometimes. And that's what happens at the same time to hide the identity. The fight is who will have the upper hand in the management of the system. You say you're more genuine. SYRIZA says that "we are better and we can soften it," but history has proved that it does not change or transform. The second point is that we are not indifferent to today, nor are we referring everything to socialism - communism. We are making some specific proposals. Example and I won't go away. Do you accept the amendment for those teachers who have been excluded?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u414	You need to wear your mask.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u415	No, I don't have anyone around here. They're all very far away. I can't with the mask, I'm like a prisoner. At least here it's safe, it's three meters.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u416	Mrs. Lykoli is typically right, because that's the rule, wearing a mask. But because you're through, it's okay. Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u417	So I thought we shouldn't go far now. Ideological confrontation is ideological. There are two lines. Not three, not four. But now I'm saying, aren't we interested? Here, tell us why you do not accept the amendment we have tabled? Why have too many teachers been excluded because of the misfunction of your state, either by the end of the day or by the symposium? Because it's a state, classic. Why don't you take her? We told you, permanentize the four thousand health workers who have been working for so many years with the OAED and have met standing needs. Why don't you do it? Give me an answer. Not to go to general and theoretical, we can discuss them too many times. Why other amendments, which are immediate and necessary, do you not accept them? Here's the question. Do you have an answer? I think you can't find any trade union tricks or conventions...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u418	Mr. Palphie, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u419	Thank you, Mr President. We have made a clear controversy, political controversy, more general as to where the situation goes and we tell the workers that we are fighting for what we can get, but the state does not change. It doesn't change, serves what your ideology says and where others accept it and without saying it. In other words, they say some capitalist socialism or, if you like, put it backwards. We say that overturning, changing this society is now objectively mature. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u420	Mr. Ragosi, if you want to speak without a mask, come to Stepma. It doesn't matter where time is, talk from Steps better, because we have to keep what we decide for ourselves, we have to keep up with them. Mr Ragossi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u421	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be brief. First of all, I heard Mr. Plearis and Mr. Voridis supporting part of their positions on an argument, what happened before 1994, saying that it was okay, that the Peponnes Act came in 1994, but after 1994 what were you people talking about the Peponnes Act? You said that, too, Mr. Vorides, and you, Mr. Pleari. Do you understand the essence of political reproach that is addressed to you by the whole of the Opposition? Irrespective of the justification you have heard from Mr Zachariadis, what do we claim? That you were taking the country in 2021 at the time before 1994, where you say that there were atrocious intakes that were being made undeclared and outside the ADP, because of course there was no ADP. That is why we blame you and defend you with the argument of what happened before 1994, and why does anyone have a milestone, a historic point of reference in 1994? Yes, 1994 was an incision, a reform, so that the country could go ahead and it was an act of self-criticism of a party, a party which alone took the responsibility of making its self-criticism and saying "from now on I am changing". And where the country is constantly trying to move in this direction what are you doing now, coming to rule in 2019? You're pulling the country in before 1994. I say this to understand the value of the argument you are developing. Also, Mr Vorides, it is good to try to criticise the criticism you are being made. But you must respond to the criticism of why you are legislating. You must defend your government's decisions. It is not enough to criticise the opposition. So, Mr. Voridis, why don't you decide to have a majority of members of the AACC? Why do you not decide to be established by a decision of the AACC's Plenary Session? Why don't you decide that the first competition should take place in an unsuspecting time, in one year from now at the latest? Why all this? Answer me. As long as you do not respond, you are also exposed with your back to the wall, no matter what you say, whatever stones, no place to fly, for the simple reason that here is not judged by what each Member of the Anti-Population says, but by you the Greek people judges what they will see at the end is on the papers. One more thing. You said a lot. I won't expand now. But you're talking about hiring. We told you, why don't you abolish all the derogating provisions? You say 'we were hiring because of the pandemic'. Inaccurate, false. The thousands of five hundred special guards hired outside the SAP and non-Greeks related to the pandemic? The eight hundred border guards hired outside the SAP and outside the Greeks had anything to do with the pandemic? Two and a half thousand already counted, two and a half thousand are the ones I told you. Did the fifty veterinarians who have even left today the provision that you entered the Ministry of Rural Development and who will be recruited outside the OSCE, have any connection with the pandemic? No relationship. The AACC's merits law that should have room for recruitment should not provide for what we do in urgent procedures? Of course it does, but you want to violate him, because you are interested in bringing back the customer's Rusphetological State, which is what feeds and feeds your own political power and presence. That's what this is about. If you had another will, what we're talking about now would clean it up. You would come here and make a provision, and you would say that, from now on, the country has been hired by this law, we are abolishing all individual provisions. You haven't. You would say that we have a central competition committee consisting of members of the AACC and so on. One last thing, Mr President, and I shall conclude. Mr. Voridis, you reminded me of what we were talking about at school at one time, when we heard various friends say things and when we were annoying because we felt that there was a serious and funny game on our intelligence, we said, "has your mother got another smarter child than you?". You come here today and you talk to us about the posters. The recruitment of posters by the previous government was one of the main election and personal "significance" policies by Mr Mitsotakis. This is where I have reports my associates got to and they gave them to me. "I'm going to tear down SYRIZA's party state, to build a remarkable public," "The only people who go through are the party posters of SYRIZA" and you come here after a year and a half of government and do you recognize that you have taken more posters than those who existed in 2019 on calculations, which if I heard correctly, Mr Vorides, you said that it is three hundred twenty-one? Your calculation made three hundred twenty-one more? And you're saying the mayors hired them? By law of your government, it's done. When Mr Mitsotakis said about poster in public, he did not say outside OTA, he did not say outside self-government, he said in total how many Greek people, the Greek taxpayer. So you, Mr Voridis, and you talk about the posters, when you had made a central election "significant" that what was happening in the country was unacceptable and would you announce it and recognize here that you have hired more poster, who cost much more to the Greek taxpayer, and instead of asking for apologies, you also ask for the change? Well, it can't be, Mr. Voridis! Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u422	Mr. Plori, if you speak with a mask, you can speak from your position. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u423	Mr President, some answers must be given so that there are no inaccuracies here. First of all, I would like to say that it has been said that it has been done with the National Health System. Five hundred and seventy were the ones Mr. Blonde and Mr. Polakis left, and now they're about three hundred. There are 25% more expenditure on the health system in 2020, and staff from eighty-nine thousand have become a hundred thousand. You cannot say from this Stepma that there are Greek fellow citizens who have been in the difficult position and have not had the treatment they should have. They had it, and proof of this is that while other countries with a much better health system had to transport people outside their country to hospitalize them, in Greece with a national health system that you delivered to us, with five hundred seventy ICU beds, we managed to have so many ICU beds and not to need them. You're talking about requisitioning private clinics. Do you not know that there is full agreement with private clinics for IF beds, that all private clinic beds in IF have been given to the National Health System and can be used at any time? If the order were made as you wanted it, it would mean that in March and April, when we didn't need to have IF beds, we would pay for free ΜΘ beds every day, because you are a legal person and you know very well that when you order something, from that time on you're indebted to it. That's the order. Let's go down. I heard it called "what SYRIZA did in the five years with the Legal Council of State". It's really amazing. What was said? "We waited for America to take action"! But this was an investigation. There were criminal prosecutions. If, in other words, America never made a decision, what would the Greek State do? And listen to something nice. There were criminal prosecutions. Mr. Frozis went to court and told us and was acquitted in cases and there was no representation of a political appeal by the Greek State. Why did the Greek State not go to these trials for overregistration, were officials of NOVARTIS being tried? I'll tell you why. Because while the investigation into doctors started by Mrs Ryku alone, who sent and asked for the bank accounts, from February 2018 to September 2019, no investigation was carried out for doctors, because the mandate you then gave to the committee was that there will be only politicians, false witnesses who are there and criminally prosecuted, and to prosecutors from justice and a Deputy Minister from the House, and in September 2019 - since Mrs Ryku came to the committee and said that there has been no checks for doctors - then the controls were launched and we have reached a point today. Our committee in 2020 carried out tests on doctors. And you know what else? Why have offences been dropped?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u424	And that's what you're closing up with.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u425	No, I'm not. Two minutes, Mr. President. I had six minutes and I didn't use it. So why? Because there was no control, and all the misdemeanours are not there now, they have been deleted, the five years have passed. And whoever here comes here falsely refers to America's decision is really battering, even at the last minute. It is the decision of New Jersey, that the only thing that comes and recognizes the American public and the company "NOVARTIS" is just overwriting by doctors, by clinical trials of medicines that were given money to doctors as bribes. Only overregistration, no overvaluation or any other act. And you never dared, and here you have a responsibility as Ministers, because if since 2015, if the file had gone to the prosecutor's office, you had asked for the opinion of the Legal Council of State, he would come and tell you what action you should take. And who did this? Kyriakos Mitsotakis did so, as he said at the first moment that the scandal is real and concerns doctors, and the construction is that a real scandal with false witnesses and with pressures made by the prosecutors on your instructions, you turned it against policies.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u426	Mr. Florie, close up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u427	So there's a scandal and a make-up. New Jersey's decision is clear and you didn't dare, you didn't even claim 1 euro for the Greek State, because you didn't care about the punishment of "NOVARTIS" but you cared about targeting political people.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u428	Will you say anything about the statement by Mr. Mitsotakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u429	Well, because I've learned to keep my promises, two minutes, Mr. Paulakis, and the Minister's closing.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u430	Mr. President!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u431	Mrs. Adamopoulou, we're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u432	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u433	It was by way of derogation. Especially you have spoken twenty-two minutes in your prototype. Don't complain. And yet, I gave you the floor. We're not going that way.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u434	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u435	As an old parliamentarian, I am disappointed that we are discussing an institutional bill today, from the two and a half hours I am in the Chair, the two hours I have heard things that had nothing to do with the bill!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u436	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u437	I'm sorry, you don't have the floor. For two minutes, Mr. Paulakis has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u438	New Democracy won't take advantage of this when we don't have time...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u439	There's no record of anything you're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u440	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u441	Mr. Polakis, you have the floor, here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u442	I say it as quickly as I can and thank you first for giving me the floor. Mr. Voridis, when you were Minister of Health, along with the colleagues you were, you had fifty two posters at the Ministry. I had eighteen with Blonde. When you were Minister for Rural Development, you had thirty-six. Arachovite and Tyloridou had twenty-four. In the information you mentioned, you hid the following things, firstly, that by legislative regulation of the first law that you voted for the "final state", the hundreds of forty translaters and associates of the Secretariat of the Grand Maximos, the ones that Alexis Tsipras had, became five hundred. It is not possible to have nine hundred eighty, when you have raised your positions by only three hundred fifty there. You hide two hidden sources that you have put poster, one of which was the Ministry of Migration Policy, which has provided a series of services in the name of a lack of staff with posters, and the General Secretariat of Civil Protection. The poster's article on these two bodies I mentioned is a third-five, so it's fake. There's another thing. The cost of posters and partners is at the moment 70% higher than what was on SYRIZA, and at the level of each individual pay, but also as a whole because of the number. That's the reality. Secondly, and thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u443	And close with the second one.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u444	Yeah, yeah. Mr. Flouris, you're lying from top to bottom. A hundred thousand four hundred fifty were personnel from the human resources management service the ERC had in May 2019. One year later, it was ninety-five thousand. At the moment, there are ninety thousand eighty-eighths with the subsidiary you hired. The beds we gave you were five hundred sixty-eight, not five hundred seventy. In six months you made it five hundred fifty-five. Until the beginning of the pandemic, you had not added any bed, even - you had barely closed thirteen and at the moment the functional beds of the ESS that you added to the system are not more than a hundred and a hundred forty. A thousand hundred is a magic number. You add the two hundred and thirty with two hundred forty private-sector beds that were there and then the seventy of the military hospitals that existed. In the five hundred sixty-eight that we handed over to you, we didn't count this. Now count what was never, except for some, in the EAW newspaper.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u445	Good. Shut up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u446	And that turns out, because when we had a hundred dead every day, it never went over six hundred beds.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u447	We've heard that a hundred times. Shut up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u448	Understood? No matter what lies you say, that's the reality.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u449	All right, we're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u450	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u451	Mr. Florie, be careful, because I'm ready to call you all to class! Calm down! Minister, you're closing the meeting for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u452	Thank you very much, Mr President. You know, everyone you know me - and some of us have been in this Chamber for several years - that I believe in ideological controversy. I think that the debate is very fruitful when it is done in such circumstances. And you know or should know that I never come and say things that I do not know and have verified from specific sources in this Chamber as far as the real thing is concerned.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u453	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u454	Mr. Polakis, this is not the case for you, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u455	Mr. Voridis, can you please not hold a dialogue? Call your opinions and do not interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u456	Yeah, but that means we don't interrupt. When we interrupt...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u457	Don't make personal reports.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u458	But I didn't report personally.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u459	How? Mr. Polakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u460	No, I made no personal mention of Mr. Polakis. Mr. Paulakis interrupted me, and then I had a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u461	Please, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u462	So be careful why I say that. You say to me: 'You have thirty-six posters'. Didn't you say? What can we do now that I have ten? So why are you lying to that? Even if you add - now notice what you may read and say this - I give you the good faith of your error - what the two Secretarys-General have and what the two Secretarys-General have, even if you read it all together and put it on me and tell me that I have thirty-six, it is thirty-two. How can I take you seriously? You stand firm and say such things. Are you going to tell me: is this important? Is this a big deal? No, I didn't say it was big. You show it and put it on this basis. And we sit now and talk if it is thirty-six or thirty-two or eight or ten. But since you put it on this basis, I have to answer that. And you say whatever. I give you information, because you have this argument. Your argument - to finish with this debate - was not 'you know, you increased by three hundred poster's'. Your argument is: 'You have three thousand poster.' That's what people hear. They cost 65 million, like last year it was zero. Isn't that populism? Isn't that a terrible lie? Isn't that a misunderstanding? You came back to say "Yes, you know, the number was two thousand six hundred and went two thousand nine hundred"? And say that the government has reduced the poster. We have, however, made a policy decision to help the democrats' work, and we have given them this opportunity. Is that what you're saying? Since this morning, is that what you've been saying? Is that all these days you're saying? The editors' newspaper that you invoke is what he said? Or did he say "Three thousand Mitsotakis posters, 65 million?" So I assume that your position is that tomorrow morning the institution must be abolished. And I would like to ask, of course, why does Mr Pafilis or Mr Raguss say: 'Why are you looking back at what has happened before?' So, excuse me, not to mention what happened a year and a half ago? Because you were four and a half years government and I didn't see you abolishing it. Now are you suggesting that it be abolished?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u463	Refer to what you were saying a year and a half ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u464	A year and a half ago, we criticised the number. And I answer that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u465	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u466	Allow me, Mr Ragosi, because I call it organized. You're saying it's missing. That's why you're being unreliable. So when you lie, two lies, three lies, five lies, then no one believes you. What I'm saying is that the criticism was that it was a big number. And we've reduced the number. You are now telling me: "But you have not put within four hundred forty, five hundred forty from the Government Secretariat." And I'm looking at the evidence of the Government Secretariat and - be careful - there is a storm of lies on this issue. But there's a storm! Look, I'm always diligent with the Left, because I know what it is. And I don't want to judge you strictly. Where should I judge you strictly? You can't withstand the severe criticism. You'll be dismantled. I give you all the advantage. What do I give you? I give you the advantage of the doubt. Ask a question. Come to parliamentary control. Ask things organized. Get your clues. Come and discuss the evidence. You have now come and said, "The General Secretariat of the Government..." Isn't that what they said? The General Secretariat of the Government has a hundred posters. And that's not what we're talking about. He tells it to the FEK of their recommendation. Here, how can I forgive you? I would very much like to forgive you and say: 'He does not know what Mr Zachariadis says. He says instead, but he does not say it on purpose." He's telling them why he's not informed. You're not up to date, but that's in the FEK. Why don't you read it? And you're telling me these hundred aren't in the nine hundred, which we say it is and it is. Then it changes the argument: ‘Yes, but we did not talk about it. We are talking about immigration policy." Then we are not talking about immigration policy, but we are talking about special guards.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u467	Finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u468	So I say that you have been wronged - well, yourself, I do not care - the bill in a debate in which everyone recognises that there is an institutional problem and that there is a huge amount of delays. Mr Ragus tells me - I beg your pardon, Mr President, I will reply to that and close - 'But you have made every year legislation to get fifty veterinarians out of the ADP'. Isn't that what you told me, Mr. Ragosi, that I legislated?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u469	That's what the law says.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u470	I say you didn't read the law well because I've changed it. But because I'm not a clipboard, but I'm a skeptical...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u471	Minister, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u472	Two minutes. Let me finish. Since, Mr Ragosi, I am so bad and I have already legislated to take them every year, why haven't I called them again? Now let's go here. I had the law.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u473	I'll give you Voridis's phone to answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u474	And that's what you're closing up with.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u475	So Voridis answers you that he interpreted the subject of this law, and he said that he can't get them and he has to take them in another process. And then Voridis answers that just because he had spent a year invoking exceptional circumstances, so he didn't take them and went through the regular procedure. And in the tactical process he didn't finally take them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u476	Minister, please hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u477	I shall conclude, Mr President. So, on these real problems of recruitment, planning of recruitment, public function, what have you done today? Because you had nothing to say, because you're in a political deadlock, because you're being pushed and told that you're not making an opposition... But why don't you have an opposition? Because there's no room for opposition. For this is the government that implements a philosophical programme, which the Greek people want. You have no room for opposition. And because you don't have any room for opposition, you end up lying about the posters.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u478	Mr President, I want to make a statement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u479	You filed it in the Minutes. Obviously, it's Mr. Voridis' law. The debate on the principle, articles and amendment of the draft law of the Ministry of the Interior is closed: ‘Moderation of the system of recruitment in the public sector and strengthening of the Higher Staff Selection Council (ASE)’. and other provisions.’; We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles, the amendment and the whole text, and they will be voted on separately. I would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, sixty-one articles, one amendment, the hotel article and the entire bill. Each time on the screen they appear as four articles for vote. To vote and the rest, you need to roll the touch screen. At the top right of the screen the number of articles left to vote is shown each time. And, of course, you must make sure that you have passed all the articles, the amendment, as well as the farewell article and the whole bill. After your vote has been registered, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u480	Once you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u481	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u482	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Interior: ‘Modernisation of the system of recruitment in the public sector and strengthening the Higher Council for Personnel Selection (ASE)’. and other provisions’ has been accepted by a majority, in a single debate, in principle, of the articles, of the amendment and by a majority, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u483	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u484	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-13-S1-commons.u485	With the consent of the House at 21.15 p.m. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday, 14 January 2021, at 11.00 p.m., on the subject of this House's work, according to the agenda to be distributed to you.
