ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning! [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] The meeting's on. Before we proceed to the bill, let me first announce to the House the news sheet on Wednesday, September 1, 2021 A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question under number 993/30-8-2021 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Mr. Ioannis Delis, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Direct satisfaction of all applications for children's education at nursery-children's stations and creative employment centres". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK The only discussion and vote on the principle of the articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy: (a) of 5.8.2021 Act of Legislative Content "Extreme measures to address the risk of fires" (A 138) and (b) of 13.8.2021 Act of Legislative Content "Extreme measures for effective protection and rapid restoration of the natural environment, direct support for fire affected by the fires of July/August 2021 and related provisions" (A'143) and other provisions". The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 26 August 2021 to discuss the draft law at a single sitting, in principle, on articles and amendments. With regard to the organisation of the debate, it is naturally proposed that the rapporteurs, the special speakers, the Parliamentary Representatives, be involved, a first cycle involving one speaker from each parliamentary group and a 12-member circle of speakers with the following proportion: five from New Democracy, three from SYRIZA and one from the Change Movement, from the JRC, from the Greek Solution and from Mera25. A teleconference service or physically present is also proposed for a 12-mile circle of speakers with the same ratio. The name of the speaker has already been assigned by the Parliamentary Groups by letters. I inform you that we have made a calculation of all the names and the meeting will last around eight to nine hours. I'm telling you to arrange your own business. I think there is no objection to the basic suggestion. So we can start. Thank you very much. The new Republic's rapporteur, Mr Michael Papadopoulos, is therefore called on Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin my speech before I begin, because I really feel the need to say a great thank you to men, to women in firefighting, to police, to ordinary citizens, to volunteers and to all the foreign delegations involved in this difficult period and to help our country in the days of the fires. This bill, which concerns the ratification of the two acts of legislation, has enabled us once again, with this enthusiasm, to see that the Qualifying Opposition insists on maintaining a sterile reason and plundering because only the criticism, the sterile, that is, opposition without proposals and partnership to the national requirements and the choice of the path of responsibilities and, indeed, aimed at the person of the Prime Minister, is a primitive political culture. I think they are showing an improper parliamentary participation. We have not heard any proposals on how, where, how, we could shield the next day, given that the consequences of climate change are now evident in our country and the predictions of scientists dramatically. On the contrary, the New Democracy and the Government have tried and highlighted a new model, a culture of governance, which is worthy of a modern country such as Greece, in which the rulers account for what they did not do or for what they did, highlight what they have achieved or not achieved, and in particular with political maturity they legislate, plan in the medium and long term how to improve the potential of the state. Because, ladies and gentlemen, climate change highlights new and urgent needs. The first is the political consensus and consensus of all parties. This consensus was requested by the Prime Minister in his speech in the past few days. Ladies and gentlemen, with a view to all the people affected by the state beside them, with a view to not losing a single euro, with a view to protecting the environment, the government, with Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, took responsibility for what is going to happen and committed itself to what is going to happen, which cannot be called into question. Because it is an attempt to deal with the fiery throat, its consequences, and the government has proved rapidly reflective. And despite the attempt of counter-population to convince the contrary, today a discernible difference was made in relation to the past. Today the state is present both in dealing with phenomena and in running the restoration works, the compensation, the relief of the affected, with almost a hundred concurrent fires every day, the '112' and the international practice of organized evacuations that have been implemented and we have not mourned victims. And, of course, never in the past has the Greek state created so directly, especially in compensation. The first payments of about EUR 10 million have already begun, almost until the day before yesterday, to those who declared, through the arogi.gov.gr platform, the damage and have been recorded by special workshops, all the damaged in North Attica and most of Evia, with a supplementary budget of EUR 500 million to finance the 2021 measures, restoration of forests, settlements, infrastructure and mainly measures to support the affected areas, local authorities, households and businesses. By drawing up the housing aid and compensation programme, both for dwellings which have been registered up to 80% of the value of the total property ownership, in accordance with an amendment tabled, as well as for construction, with intervention for the firms affected, for buildings, equipment, production facilities, raw materials, goods and damaged vehicles. A similar aid has been announced for parcels and crops, especially for the primary sector. There is provision for exceptional financial support, an increase in moleculosis in the improvement plan in the affected areas, as well as for young farmers, together with improved infrastructure, i.e. real support measures. The financial assistance of the natural disasters affected is inconsistent, tax-free and unreasonable with public debts. In addition, individual measures, such as the non-refundable change, the exemption from HICP, the rental subsidy, the suspension of tax obligations, the suspension of credit obligations, the suspension of enforcement operations, the suspension of payments of insurance contributions, instalments and extensions of payments, as well as special measures to support the unemployed and workers, such as compensation for the specific purpose of workers, the automatic renewal of all unemployment cards. In particular, the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs provides a EUR 200 voucher for the purchase of digital equipment. Immediate psychological support is provided for students, parents, guardians, teachers in affected areas, support for the students affected in applications for accommodation, student homes, clubs, and the possibility of applying for relocation of affected students and others. For the environment, a plan is promoted for direct and targeted interventions involving mapping burnt areas, immediate removal of existing burned trees, construction of anti-corrosion works, issuing forest and police provisions. At the same time, a national reafforestation and anti-military projects totalling EUR 430 million are being promoted. The project aims at restoring the burnt areas, but also at the qualitative diversification of new resurrected areas, with new varieties that are more resistant to summer fires. Ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Environment and Energy is making exceptional funding for the wildlife rescue and care centres affected by the recent forest fires. In this area, much can be offered to establish the reafforestation contractor in the form of volunteering. It is a necessary measure to build a culture of responsibility and social participation. Significant, necessary, so useful and crucial is the transfer of the forest service of the Ministry of the Environment, which has taken place in recent days, with a view to the entire forestry policy being concentrated in the Ministry of the Environment under the Directorate-General for Forests. So we will have a single forestry policy with two pillars: the Civil Protection and the Ministry of the Environment, which will draw up forestry policy. Ladies and gentlemen, we are setting up the rules for the state's recovery and the civil protection mechanism with knowledge, on the one hand, we are aware that a rule of law must have an effective civil protection mechanism and, on the other hand, that the people affected will always be suffering from natural disasters. It requires and requires a strong economic, but also a deep sense of social justice. To be honest, however, after such a catastrophic period, however serious the state's intervention is, no one feels financially justified. That is why the state should every time give as strong financial aid as possible. The climate crisis is testing many countries with modern infrastructure, mechanisms, prevention and treatment. In the future, threats will be unpredictable and if there is a future that can only be green, as has been said. In view of this, the Minister called for the immediate accession of our country to the green fund and adopted actions and programmes such as liberation in western Macedonia. So the government's shielding is a one-way street and requires partnership, consultation at all levels and from all to Parliament, parties, self-government, citizens' organisations and individuals. Einstein had said we would need a very different new way of thinking if we wanted to survive the human species. I guess he was right after all. I would therefore urge you, ladies and gentlemen, that all of us have a new way of thinking. I invite you to participate in the current government's effort. It is not an effort that raises party benefits or party victories. It is an effort that concerns the Greek people, it is an effort that is useful to everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u3	The Deputy Prime Minister, the Minister of Interior, Economic, Development and Investment, Foreign Affairs, Citizen Protection, National Defence, Education and Religion, Labour and Social Affairs, Health, Environment and Energy, Culture and Sport, Justice, Migration and Asylum, Infrastructure and Transport, Shipping and Island Policy, Rural Development and Food, State Ministers, Deputy Ministers of Finance, Foreign and Home Affairs, and the Deputy Ministers of Civil Protection and Culture and Sport have tabled a draft law on 30 August 2021: ‘Support for transparency and accountability to state institutions, restoration of the integrity of the Single Mobility System and other provisions of the Ministry of Interior’. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. The general rapporteur from SYRIZA Evangelos Apostolos is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the next day of the charred northern Evia dawned with citizens aware of calling for cleansing for the greatest environmental, social and economic tragedy in the history of the island. Clearance, with a handout and support for citizens. For the total destruction of northern Evia, we will not only stand by the unspeakable criminal accounting officers. Greek justice is called upon to write its own story for the nine days of passions. We have confidence. These nine days that have shocked northern Evia will haunt the government and devour the myth of the state of service. The district director of Central Greece tragically abandoned in the days of the government's disaster and the final state, calmly complained - and not for once - about an order of non-repression. He even strengthened it by invoking countless testimony of our fellow citizens by saying that, in persuasiveness of these orders, many heroic firefighters worked on their own initiative. The district manager who could not communicate, as he himself denounced, the days of the fire with no Minister, you remembered him as soon as he hurt your communication model, which, in his statement of redress, attempted, unfortunately, to serve by forgetting himself and the countless testimony of his fellow citizens. A fire that started from the edges of the village of Lake with full apnea and easy accessibility, burned for nine days. It burned the island from Evvoikos to the Aegean Sea and from the Aegean Sea again to Evvoikos. In this ruin, the chief of the Fire Service in an interview cynically, without a sense of the size of the disaster and its role, but also of his responsibility, said to us: "I wasn't very watching northern Evia. I was exclusively committed to the fire of Parnitha, because that was the bet of the Fire Service. Furthermore, in the newspaper "KATHMERINI" there is a complaint that, in the days of the tragedy, critical decisions on the distribution of fire-fighting planes and helicopters were taken not by the relevant officers, but by the political leadership leading to operational errors. I'm tabling the relevant report. [[At this point, the Member, Evangelos Apostolos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And here is the big question: What calculation did you, gentlemen of the government, make in those days of disastrous destruction? What did you put on the scale and abandon her luck in Northern Evia? Ladies and gentlemen, I call on you all to see with eyes the tragic reality after the fiery throat. The state of social welfare that we as Europeans are evangelizing must correct the mistakes and create the right conditions for life to flourish again not only in northern Evia, but also in all affected areas of our country without experiments, without encouragement for opportunities in the crisis with the infrastructures we need and support for the affected. Now in the House you are asking us to agree with the act of legislation which opens up a door to interests. The records showed that disasters throughout the country were great. The entire production activity of northern Evia was exterminated. I mention the municipality of Agia Anna, which was born and raised, 100% of the forest and almost 100% of the olive cultivation that was their main activity disappeared. The same was done in livestock farming, apiculture, resin farming and all production units. In tourism, even worse than the damage to the universal infrastructures, it was the precipitation of tourist activity. The answer must concern people's future. Do you believe that the measures are sufficient to enable the residents of the regions affected to remain in their places for the rest of their lives and their children? Do you think that the measures of the legislative act are sufficient to restore the disasters that have taken place in their places? Answer and I particularly refer to the Members affected by their regions. I do not see many of the relevant regions being close to us. I particularly mean our region and, above all, Members of the New Democracy. A first demonstration that the measures were not sufficient is that of the multimodality you have tabled. Once again, this is not enough, because the measures are of a more subsidised nature, so that the government can respond to the communication dilemma that it is moving towards direct support for people against future planning. Relief measures are certainly necessary, but we cannot stay in them. The negative example exists and is 2007 in Elia with a government in New Democracy where the state's contribution remained on the original benefits. We shall not allow that to happen again. The residents of the affected areas are angry at your measures, because the disaster is a great deal. Everyone - and I do not exclude anyone - do not want our country to end up with a dry landscape with a huge urban centre, abandoned villages and tourist destinations for a few. It is necessary to speed up and implement forestry projects. Of course, I would once again stress that the forestry service in these procedures must be present from the study to the receipt of these projects. We are responding that, alongside the environmental rehabilitation that can take place for a long time, the reconstruction of the province's regions must be based on the two most affected sectors and those who have been living in the tourist and rural world so far. We have proposals that we believe that if they are served not only will no longer leave their place, but will also create the conditions through a strategic plan for the region for more employment opportunities. We also expect the government to become more specific with its own proposals. The Minister tried in his speech to convince us of the so-called usefulness of the afforestation contractors. The order, Minister, plays hidden with specific interests. You are talking about works of artificial reafforestation in areas that will be declared reafforestable, because the Constitution imposes it, but also why nature must be allowed to regenerate these areas which, of course, will do so. By refreshing these areas, however, the contraaor substantially prevents physical regeneration and, at some point, does not implement anything of either the contractor or nature. In this serious case, the contractor, who has chosen an area targeting another use, can invoke the provisions of your own law, Law No.4280/2014, on an environmental balance for large investments, which we then denounced as an anti-constitutional and give another area of the same area or do forestry work on other areas where artificial reforestation is allowed. Minister, do you know that 50% of our country's forests continue to be refreshed by earlier acts, why have they not been evaluated and, of course, the reafforestation act has been lifted? You are therefore leaving us in the interests of environmental plundering, and that is one more reason why we are voting against the legislative act. I am going to stand by the fires for a while to emphasise that what has a decisive effect on their development and the disasters that are caused is the approach that sees repression as a sole instrument for dealing with fires by effectively eliminating prevention and preparedness in the first intervention. For those concerned, of course, and we are not talking about the abolition of air fire-fighting when, in addition to climate change, the possibility of living in the near future, destructive fires is extremely great. However, it cannot be a one-way road, let alone when in difficult weather conditions, in rough areas and in night hours there is no possibility of operating from air. I would point out once again that fire is not a natural weather phenomenon, that is, it is not the result of the climate crisis, as the government artificially wants to present, but many others who have done so. The conditions favouring the spread of fires, namely drought, temperature, air, are affected by climate change. But it is now the technical means we have that ignorance is unjustified. The government was well aware of the level of fire alarms and said the state mechanism is ready. But there was no state mechanism. A proper fire protection plan shall be based mainly on prevention and, secondly, on repression. It is incomprehensible that expenditure on prevention should not exceed 10% of the costs of repression. SYRIZA government didn't stay in announcements. We have made substantial contributions, such as education and employment, to prevention. From the summer of 2018 to the summer of 2019 through OAED's public service programmes, which were supervised by forest services to five thousand unemployed in local societies, we converted their unemployment into a forest prevention work while at the same time specialising in future work on the same subject. Unfortunately you didn't renew their contract. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. We also took advantage of the Gondamer conclusion, in which five worthy researchers from the Institute for Mediterranean Forestry Systems of the ELGO "Dimitra" which is supervised by the Ministry of Rural Development participated. This particularly referred to the participation of the forest service in forest fire-fighting. You ignored that, too. I am closing down, ladies and gentlemen, with an appeal. My place, northern Evia, to recover needs a clear and sustainable plan, a binding political line and a link to society. I invite you all this effort to help us serve her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u5	I have the honour to inform the House that the Minister for Justice has forwarded to Parliament under Rule 86 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2003 ‘Prime responsibility of the Ministers’, as applicable: On the 25-8-2021 criminal case-law concerning: Nicholas Kotzias, former Minister of Foreign Affairs, George Katrugalos former Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, Nikolao Toska former Deputy Minister of Interior, responsible for Civil Protection, Panagiotis Kouroublis, former Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, Ioannis Mousala, former Minister of Migration Policy and Paulo Polakis, former Minister of Health. And the 30-8-2021 criminal lawsuit concerning the Minister of Civil Protection Michael Chrysochoidis and the Deputy Minister of Civil Protection Eleftherios Economou. Giorgos Arvanitis, a special speaker from the Change Movement, is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u6	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this year we have lived through the most devastating summer forest fire season. Over three hundred thousand acres are burnt. It is the sad record of this famous so-called state of service of the New Democracy. A completely ready state, otherwise, which, unfortunately, has collapsed. The country has this year's tragic first to have the most burnt-out areas in the Mediterranean, even in front of Turkey, which, at the start of our fires, presented it as a bad example. And, of course, we also expected planes as assistance from the neighboring country. Only in Attica, the Germans, the Barumbas, the Keratea and the Vilia, we have a total of two hundred and sixty thousand burnt acres. We are talking, in other words, over half the entire metropolitan town complex of the capital, which is four hundred and sixty thousand acres. Half Athens, that is, burnt this year. The size of this disaster brought to the fore all the pathogens and problems that were recorded in a decade back, in 2008, the report by the Committee on the Environment, i.e. subsistence, inadequate funding of prevention, lack of coordination and organisation of state services and many problems in the functioning of forestry services. The Minister insisted on three hundred hirings for forestry services at the end of July, while the real needs are more than a thousand five hundred. Now it's late, of course. We run and we don't get there. And the question arises: will these recruitments be carried out? When was the last time, Minister? It is a necessity that had been recognized even by the institutions in those difficult years that anything that was public was bad was suspicious. The Change Movement calls for the Minister and the Government's commitment to the number and timing of these recruitments in the forest services. Perhaps we should look at legislation which will exceptionally allow for a transfer of staff at the request of the decentralised administrations to the forest services of your Ministry. It goes without saying that the remuneration of officials who will be transferred and transferred to your Ministry should also be paid unnecessarily. We hope this time that the transport of forest services to the Ministry of the Environment will work quickly and effectively and that all the steps taken to speed up this transfer will be speeded up. I am presenting in the Minutes the memorandum from the Pan-Hellenic Association of Public Officials on the problems that may arise from this transfer. [[At this point the Member, Georgios Arvanitidis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It is certain that further reforms in the field of forest protection will be needed, and indeed in substance. For example, tell us what changes with regard to the definition of fire-fighting zones. Who was responsible before and who will be now after the changes that you bring. That is why I am tabling the memorandum, which you must take very seriously into account and consider. This debate, however, needs to be organised, not with the choice of PPPs and amendments, to prove your quick reflections. I understand the pressure that the government has put forward some reflexes, but we cannot forget the assurances you have given that you have been ready for some time for the excellent preparation this summer. The "campaign" for the destructive year and the first had already been hit since May with the fire in the Germans, when all the government and the authorities were communicating a reassurance that they were prepared better than ever. You tried to do the same during the catastrophic fires. It was when Mr. Scorchos gave three times the number of air means that he actually tried. As a result, however, it proved that the government's civil protection system was tested and failed. Your own recent law, Minister, did not work for civil protection and, of course, on your own responsibility. Everyone calls it this now, citizens, local government, mayors, district rulers, and everyone is asking an explanation of what went wrong after all. Mr. Prime Minister came and smacked half an apology. "I'm sorry" for what? What mistakes? What omissions? What responsibilities? No one tells us and forgets what he said and asked the opposition itself in 2018 about apologies and resignations. Along with the apology, of course, the patronage has been lost, but also the temptation of the Prime Minister, who, when he is cramped, is inferior to the circumstances and is addressing disgracefully, as he did with Mrs Gennimata in the House last week. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, yes, the climate crisis is here and it is a grim factor. He can't, of course, be an alibi to anyone. Allith can't be a tragic comparison with the Eye either. So we go nowhere if New Democracy and SYRIZA compare each other and conflict with tragic events of destructive fires, with arguments 'waves' or 'ferres'. A little self-criticism doesn't hurt. As does not hurt, and the memory we must have of who first spoke about climate change, who established a Ministry of the Environment and Climate Change, Green Fund and other options, which were precursor actions to prevent, think and prepare as a country the consequences that were before us, for what it was, for the climate change that was taking place in the climate crisis. It was a prevention and adaptation strategy, which, unfortunately, the New Democracy Government does not even understand what these concepts mean. That is why we are now talking, as always, about measures of EUR 60 million. The total cost of the two MDGs will be borne by the state budget by about EUR 60 million, by EUR 58 million and by 2.7 million of revenue losses and, without, of course, all final expenditure being taken into account now. It is remembered that if the government had even given part of the EUR 60 million to prevention measures it would not now have to look for such large sums for recovery measures. And, of course, the huge cost of losing forest, agricultural and animal wealth and the biodiversity of the regions that have been burned is still not estimated anywhere. At the same time, the government had announced before the summer fires funding from a Recovery Fund with EUR 224 million of the National Reafforestation Plan with a time horizon in 2025 and a reforestation of sixteen and afforestations of sixteen thousand hectares throughout Greece. The goal is a hundred and sixty-five thousand acres, five hundred acres per municipality, with emphasis on perimeter areas. A separate allocation of 45m euros has been entered into the Recovery Fund for the renewal of the former royal estate of Tatoi, and now, of course, much more resources will be needed. It is obvious that it was very few of the accompanies that had been announced in the first place. The original reafforestation plan is now a drop in the ocean as, unfortunately, there are new unpleasant data to be taken into account. Nature will do its job by natural regeneration of the burned forests, where, of course, the forests have never been burned before and where we leave it, while taking the necessary protection measures. The Government must redesign the National Reafforestation Plan and ensure a balanced geographical distribution of amounts and projects. The needs are much larger in both Attica and Evia, Elias, Achaia and Arcadia and northern Greece. We may not have had enough fires in Macedonia this year, but the region of Thessaloniki must be particularly careful. There are significant areas for afforestation. I have discussed with Mr Amyras the need to reafforestate the French River bed, a very large area which will bring about a significant change in total in Thessaloniki and provide a way out for the inhabitants of the town complex. I hope, Minister, that we will be given the opportunity to visit this region. The Change Movement seeks to protect biodiversity by refreshing areas with plants from certified genetic material. This means that emphasis should be placed on existing forest nurseries and seedling gardens operated by the Forest Service and on ensuring their funding. All forestry and flooding works should be carried out with environmental parameters, natural materials and mild interventions. Here too, the House could have taken a symbolic initiative, Mr President, in all the regions affected. It could, for example, undertake the financing of model reafforestations and anti-military works where necessary. Under no circumstances shall punctuate flare on the banks of the rivers be cut. A large number of trees will be reborn from their root system. That is why it is very important to prioritise an evaluation of the success of natural reafforestation and reforestation before any artificial reforestation. This physical regeneration is, after all, done without any state or private exits. Also, the institution of afforestation contractors causes questions that could only be done if this choice was made on very clear terms. And here I bring back our unanswered questions so far, Minister. What about the products produced in logging and who will fruit their produced value of sale? What kind of competitivity may private individuals receive? With what kind of trees and where will these come from, the reforestation? Will the proclamation of the resurrecters take as a prediction the unfinished forest maps? We also continue to ask for answers in relation to the concerns we have put to you for a horizontal ban on movement and transit and residence with regard to forests in natural tissues and even until 31 October. The regulation betrays the strong weakness and inadequacy of keeping small green areas in urban areas and leads to further incarceration and desperation of measures against COVID. You should better specify all these targets. For example, apiculture work with strict precautions could be permitted. In relation to financial support measures, however, we have tabled specific questions and proposals. Do you intend, in addition to submitting applications through the digital platform, to establish manual capacity or service in the JEPs for those who are unable to access electronic media? The Change Movement has long been proposing, with our climate law initiative, to see issues such as the full reorganisation of the country's civil protection forces and the establishment of a public security system to tackle all risks, with clearing of responsibilities and, in particular, of relevant physical and technological risk services. Secondly, the administrative areas in the context of forest protection and management. Thirdly, a national fire protection plan. Fourthly, the establishment of a natural disaster insurance fund in order to shield households from extreme weather phenomena in the respective funds standards in other countries, particularly for fire protection and protection against earthquakes. This logic has been suggested in Greece to adapt to extreme weather phenomena, of course, along with the participation of the private sector. Fifthly, the immediate completion, approval and effective update at regular intervals - three years - of all regional plans to adapt to climate change. Sixth, the introduction of a binding provision to increase the green index per inhabitant in all Greek cities. We need green in our cities. Especially for the primary sector affected by this year's disasters, we propose that farmers be fully compensated for the losses of their production. Cover the restoration of animal and plant capital. To have a minimum guaranteed income until there is a new efficient production. In order to demarcate the areas included in the housing support measures immediately, the OSH must come out to demarcate immediately. To fill the gaps in the MDG, for example - we know that it is incomplete - not to mention non-professional farmers in aid measures. Indicate who the suspension of tax and insurance obligations applies. The mills, I told you in committee, are there any plans - because they do not produce because they are burned - to support them? Priority is given to farmers, farmers and small producer groups to install small photovoltaics up to 500 KW for the acquisition of a fixed alternative income in the fire-fighting areas. And finally, there must be a special development programme for each region affected by Elias, Evia, Achaia, Arcadia. All of this cannot be done with examples of the management of the respective funds of the 2009 period in Elias, if they do not involve the management of the programmes and the residents of those regions. The new development in the affected areas must be green, but not green for specific interests. Even EUR 1 must not be made available without criteria, without transparency, without specific targets and accountability. Ladies and gentlemen, the Change Movement respecting its history and leadership is not sterilely critical, but is putting forward proposals and we expect to hear the government's responses. The measures to support our affected fellow citizens and the measures to restore the areas are necessary, but as you bring them, they are not sufficient or specifically enough. Finally, we need a whole other philosophy to tackle forest fires with emphasis on prevention and early intervention. We also need another approach to civil protection. I will close with a comment on the amendment tabled by the government. The increase in expenditure, of course, is necessary. I would remind you, however, that in my introduction to the 2021 budget I pointed out its inadequacy. The Change Movement had since, in time, stressed that because of the problems posed by COVID -19, as well as because of the climate crisis policy, this budget submitted by the Minister of Finance would not come out. To us, it was obvious since then that the numbers did not come out. The government has already completed the 2021 budget under Laws 4796 and 4797. The budget for 2022 must be adapted accordingly, taking into account the current and escalating conditions on these two fronts, on the front of the pandemic and climate crisis. This amendment, with the additional budget of 150 million for the aid of natural disasters, and the EUR 350 million for the Public Investment Programme - a total of half a billion, therefore - are the signs that unfortunately confirm the projections of the Bank of Greece's 2011 report. Then the Bank of Greece - and I close with it - had predicted that the cost of addressing the impact of climate change if there is no action to deal with it will exceed EUR 700 billion by 2100 in our country. If we want 100% of this report not to be confirmed, the government must immediately change its strategy and walk. If he does not, then he fuels a vicious circle that we will go from crisis to crisis, economic, ecological, social and say. That is why you need to think about redirecting the funds from the Development Fund. There's no more time for action. Time is now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u7	Mrs Diamanto Manolakou from the Communist Party of Greece has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u8	The lights of publicity about the great fires are fading and the courage of the privatized EKDAP is perverse. He sent messages to firefighters that they had increased water consumption and recommends a leak check in order not to be unduly burdened. The nerve draws it from your policy and insufficient measures that do not meet the needs of those affected by the major destructive fires in homes, warehouses, rural and woodlands, animals and bees, agricultural machinery and others. Fairly they claim compensation from the first euro at 100%, income assurance and work, and especially the retinas who saw their lives overturned after the disasters. General and vague your promises, without timelines, with many deliberate ambiguities about popular strata. That also applies to the amendment you tabled. And for them not to be forgotten, we will specifically submit to you their requests through the resolutions, such as the one adopted at the great, sensational rally of the firefighting villages in northern Evia, Strofyria, where from the outset express their anger and indignation about the abandonment of the people of northern Evia and the framework for fighting requests from other burnt areas, such as the firefighting areas of Elijah and elsewhere. Mostly they directly claim the necessary anti-military protection works, as, they note, what the fires have not destroyed, is in danger of rain drowning it. So you may argue that human lives have not been lost, but thousands of lives of affected people have been destroyed. That is why the responsibilities are heavy and any operational omissions and mistakes in the fight against fires, which exist and always exist, cannot be an alibi and a laundry for the criminal policy of today's government, but also for all the previous governments, who risk the forests and the property of the people, which extend the exploitation of natural wealth to the territory of the commercialisation of the land, which put the prevention, fire protection and firefighting to the maximum amount of costs and benefits of the capital, accumulating fuel to glow thousands of acres each year, nor can they hide the selective inability of the urban state to protect the people in floods and fires. These are the real crimes with the seal of the New Democracy, SYRIZA, PASOK, KINAL and others, which the people should not allow to write off. That is why you rejected the latest KKE's specific proposals on fire safety and forest protection, which were also presented in a conference in May 2018, that is, long before the fiery destructive throat we lived in. But we didn't stay there. And now in every burning area they were thrown into battle with the flames volunteers and friends of the KKE in order to save what is left of the forest and of the residents' property. They set up groups to deal with fire, protect the natural wealth and people's homes, and, at the same time, there was organised solidarity among the inhabitants and firefighters who fought with flames. And the solidarity continues in the firefighters, like last Sunday with the concert organized by Athens' student clubs in the Caesarian symposium despite the effort of the police to prevent it. In fact, it was touching and the offer of first-demand items by students to send material assistance to the firefighting villages. The same is happening in many cities in the country. You see, then, that it develops organisation and solidarity. And that's power! And it is right that the slogan of the JRC that the people can save the people, no matter how bothering you to hear it. However, these conclusions also come from the criminal lack of integrated anti-nuclear protection from the state and the government, not in a remote forest, but even in the heart of Athens. We had uncontrolled destructive fires in Varube, Agios Stefano, northern Evia - nine days on fire - Elia, Laconia, with thousands of burnt olive trees, Arcadia, Vilia, etc. Crime against the environment, life and property of the people! It is typical of the Czech firefighters when they spot a rustly unconscious brutality that they didn't open. They hit her with a boogeyman, opened, but the diameter of their tube was different. This is the prevention of zero in literality! These are the results of your choice - and of the other urban parties - when the land becomes a merchandise and spatial planning has as a criterion capitalist profit. They therefore function as a flammable material and your own policies of abandonment, prevention and protection of forest ecosystems. Otherwise, you both load them into climate change, which has existed and will exist as a convenient sanctuary and an alibi in order to immerse the Green Group's ‘green’ business and, of course, in order to hide your heavy responsibilities over time, with huge gaps and shortcomings, assembling and inadequacy in instruments and infrastructures. That is why the government's magnificence of preparedness has become ashes, since you continue with the same forests' policy of dealing with forests as a commodity and a profit and loss field for groups in the cost-benefit logic. That is why New Democracy and SYRIZA agree that what is now urgent is to see the next day with the eyes of the 'green' groups and not, of course, the firemen who still fought against the naked state to save what they could from their livelihood. The simple world also knows from previous major arsons that business groups, construction capital is gaining from the change in land use, since forest ecosystems after their destruction become industries, tourist businesses, housing, villas outside construction, using the forest legislation that governments are voting for over time to serve them, as well as forest fires as a tool to change them. After the fires most burnt forest lands are not declared resurrectable, on pretext of ownership ambiguities. So they change their character and owner, for the purpose of their illegal or legal change of use. This is the strong incentive of arsonists. Today, in the name of so-called green development, the European Union's green new deal, forests are evaluated by groups as profitable investments in the RES, destroying forests, plucking biodiversity and wildlife, for which they are allegedly interested. The problem of forest fires has been exacerbated by the policy of segregation and repression, without any scientific documentation. It is also intensified by the lack of funding for the management, protection and, above all, anti-nuclear protection, insufficient and unexploited equipment, the inefficient organisation of the firefighting forces. In this sense, the compensation notified is not sufficient. Of course you take the opportunity to put private sponsors into the public forest lands for studies, anti-corrosion works and so on. In fact, they are the business RES groups and other interests that will appear as benefactors and sponsors to facilitate the penetration of their presence and business on the benches. You see, you can't afford the state budget and the various packages. This is intended exclusively for business groups and not for actions and projects for the community as a whole. And yet, in order to re-create a forest it will take a decade, so secure work for those who live and protect it, such as the resin collectors. And as far as Article 7 is concerned, it is the grant money that the State owes them and it is unacceptable that there should be no irresponsible. The amendment also retains the limits instead of abolishing them. The whole amount must be allocated irresponsible and, in fact, immediately. For 2021, when all the resin production was destroyed, the selling price together with subsidisation and trademarks, that is to say, 2021 so that their families can survive. They have no savings. They're ruined without their fault. Mr. Prime Minister's promises to the retinas for a utility of 560 euros condemns them to non-violence, making them astounding their working and insurance rights. Or even for the home of an ashes - folk family, labors, sacrifices, deprivations of an entire life and sometimes two and three generations. Olives and fruit trees give income after four to five years and all this has become ashes and your benefits are crumbs. The measures for the people's layers are a mockery on the benches. Articles 10 and 12 provide for certain advances to be offset against compensation and calculated by depositing a file, but those affected with the costs of accountants. That's really barbaric. For farmers it means that losses to animals and bees will be compensated through ELGA, with known compensation cutters and premiums that are prerequisites. However, they do not include fire damage, while animal and beekeeping compensation only covers 80% of the insurance value and does not compensate very small ones. It's unacceptable. Plant production damage will be compensated by the regulation of the former PESA, provided that they have paid contributions to the ELGA and there are legal conditions, for example for stables, when 80% does not have all of Greece. And it is well known that this regulation cuts off allowances on mobile equipment, tractors, brake pumping and drilling, which does not compensate, and axes at least 50% for non-professional farmers. So your crumbs are very behind the needs and the real restoration of the wounded. What income will the farmer remain on his place? With 10 euros a year per tree, which should also live and care for its trees? At the same time, you are not taking prevention measures to prevent such catastrophes from happening again. Of course also with the "January" and "Media" you promised the affected, but there are many who are waiting, so they do not trust you in their resolutions that their demands claim without any conditions and conditions. In addition to the changes and the measures proposed by the government, and calling on us to draw conclusions, the individual responsibility for cleaning and private property insurance in the sharks of insurance companies is shown by the individual responsibility for cleaning up and private property in the sharks of insurance companies, as if they had a surplus of money for people's income when the urban state left public forests without any elementary prevention and protection. In the Forest Service, vacancies amount to 70% of needs and funding is almost nonexistent. In the fire extinguisher, the means of repression are about one third of what they need. And responsibilities are time-consuming. The confrontation of New Democracy and SYRIZA for committees and commissioners is in the context of who will be the best manager of civil power. Because you are both co-responsible, when you specialise and implement the European Union guidelines that deal with the environment and forests as a field of business. This serves the law to modernise environmental legislation, to ensure and extend profit fields to over-accumulated funds, with invention of housing densities, the law on specific forms of tourism and tourist development. Intensify and enrich the legal framework for the environment, following directives on large capital, BSE and banks, by further subjugating the environment to the needs of capitalist development. Intensify the commercialisation of the forest land by expanding and subsidising investments in the forests, turning them into wind turbines. Keep the property Babylonish in the forests with declassifications and recognitions of non-existent rights and ownership. That is why your measures are far less than those of the firefighting resolutions. The fire burned their land, but it did not devour their determination not to abandon it. On the contrary, they will fight and remain at their place. The JRC will be with and in front of them, and at the same time we say clearly that any fire could be dealt with effectively on condition that there would be integrated forest management and protection. This can only be done within the framework of the labour power, which ensures all the necessary conditions for this, to strengthen the competent services in money, staff, infrastructure. In this context, integrated management, overall protection and correction of forest ecosystems from any risk and forest fires will be possible which require medium-term scientific planning and a single modern anti-nuclear design, on a scientific basis, with particular emphasis on the prevention and specific management of forest vegetation. This is done by a forest service with a different structure, organisation, personal, economic resources and legal and institutional framework for the people. So the JRC is coming forward to abolishing the capitalist exploitation of the forest environment, and this perspective is judged by today's struggles for all the people's needs.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u9	The special speaker will now be given the floor from the Greek Solution, Mr. Villardos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u10	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, we will start with a question to the Minister of State, Mr Skreka, on the inter-party committee of the Parliament on civil protection, which the Prime Minister mentioned in his recent speech. Because we are not aware of its existence, and it is certainly impossible for a Prime Minister to lie, when has it been established, Minister? When does he meet and which parties are involved? What decisions has she made so far? If you want, answer me. As a Greek Solution, however, we have tabled an integrated plan for fire protection and forest protection, despite the fact that no one has ever been asked for us. The colleague is missing, the rapporteur of the New Democracy, but we wanted to tell him that we have tabled proposals, he has not read them or heard them. Apparently, he had his ears closed. So we think that words offer absolutely nothing, but only actions. So that is why we always put forward written proposals, so that everyone can read them in their hands. The Prime Minister, of course, said in May 2021, that he even had a special plan for the perimeter forests, while he finally burned Varybobi, Parnitha, Gerranea, Stop, Keratea, Vilia and so on. Is there really this plan? If so, was the failure of its application due to amateurism or inability? However, if strong winds were blown, the fire would reach Piraeus, after it would burn half Athens before. But even without winds blowing, the fires caused huge cost damage, about 30 billion euros, because they burned almost a million thousands of acres, according to an Italian study, in which the destruction of two thousand acres of fires is equivalent to a cost of 50 million euros. In fact, one million, seventy - seventy thousand acres were burned until August 26, five hundred eight thousand in Evia. Unbelievable disaster. In this respect, we must draw attention to the huge quantities of carbon dioxide from the fires, which have polluted the atmosphere, except that additional quantities will no longer be absorbed by burnt forests. In this context, the stop of lignite was missing from the government, supposedly because of its environmental sensitivity, while, in fact, we all know it, the Germans impose it. The Germans, of course, will not stop lignite, at least until 2038, having recently launched a new plant in 2020, using combustion methods that absorb up to 85% of the pollutants to keep them from being costed. On the other hand, despite the fact that we are bankrupt, we want to fly out of the window at least EUR 230 billion of lignite, as calculated by the price of oil at $60 per barrel. Isn't that a crime against the Greeks? Isn't that how today's and next generations are robbed? With what right does the government make such decisions? Because it has a hundred and fifty-eight Members, 50 of whom were given free of charge by the enhanced analogy system, so they do not in fact represent anyone? Is it not unacceptable to take such serious decisions from a hundred to eight in fact elected MPs, let alone abstentions from the 2019 elections to 42%? Evidently, the Greeks would have seen the first results with the 50% increase in PPC tariffs and God knows how much more it will increase. As regards the thousand two hundred and seventy-nine different fires, the Minister told the committee - a thousand two hundred ninety-nine, the Prime Minister said in his speech - the European system recorded only sixty-nine fires, compared with thirty-average in 2008 to 2020, which is more than double, when the disasters were almost eight times double. Why? Because of the refreshments, which substantiate the impotence of the government. Furthermore, did the government not know that there was a risk, since climate change was already being discussed in 2007? Is the climate change not mentioned in the conclusion of the Special Permanent Committee for the Protection of the Environment of the Parliament, in which Mr Mitsotakis participated, and was in charge of autopsy in 2008? Didn't the report say that better cooperation between forest services and firefighting is needed, as Mr Mitsotakis said at his recent press conference? Only '12' did the government consider evacuation culture necessary, as the Prime Minister described it? If, however, there was a culture of evacuation, in the case of Barumbas, if the inhabitants did not protect the area, the fire would have gone to Kifisia. In a similar case, however, last year, Mr Hardalias said that blind mission '112' is not correct and is absolutely right. So is people wrong to get upset? Isn't the people of North Attica right to say that since the government didn't protect our homes, should it go to her house? As was rightly written in the press, how is it possible for citizens to abandon their villages, especially their homes, which are the result of deprivation, decades of labor and dreams of an entire life? How can they abandon their dreams, their animals, their bees, their agricultural crops, their vines, their machinery and their rhetoric, their olives, their churches, their tombs, their crafts, the homes of their ancestors, their villages and their dreams? The eye was about ten of them. Now, forty degrees. Governments that are criminalizing thousands of illegal houses in the forests, just for voters, are not to blame. Governments issuing permits to build houses in pine trees, without obliging or even advising the owners to supply them with satisfactory fire-fighting systems, are not to blame. The inability of governments to create anti-nuclear zones against a relatively small cost is not the fault of the governments. The taking-up of substantiated incompetent officials in an official post shall not be the fault of them. Governments that have reduced their forest protection and firefighting allocation from 2010 to 2020 by EUR 1,1 billion because of the policy of destructive memoranda, which are of course continuing, are not to blame. Who's to blame, really? Anyone? Starting now with the MIP on 5 August, it was issued the day after the fire in Barumbas, while it provides for self-evident, prevention and storage measures, such as the ban on outdoor activities that may cause fire. The Minister, Mr Skrekas, thought in his speech that he should be voted on by everyone today, obviously seeking to conceal the fact that the government had not even anticipated the obvious before the fires began. What is the point, however, of calling for our agreement today? Is he trying to justify our support for unjustified? Should this disaster be caused to take care measures? Is the irresponsibility and the inadequacy of the government, which, while legislating for two years at a stormy rate, has not achieved anything but the launch of our country's deficits and debts, as if there were no tomorrow? If growth or national security or the security of citizens were legislative issues, then it would have no problem at all. Honestly, however, we did not believe, until recently, that there could be a worse government than SYRIZA. Unfortunately, we have been disappointed that no other government has until now charged Greece with EUR 41 billion in just two years and has caused no damage to 30 billion due to the mismanagement of the fires. Apart from the huge twin deficits and twin debts, which accumulated at a real stormy rate, after all, of course, since what always counts is the result, the first act of legislation was meaningless, because from the date of its adoption and then the fires continued, and many others were added. The second legislative act followed in substance after the failure of the first, where the government, having been unable to protect the homes, property and lifestyle of the citizens, proposes measures to relieve them. In other words, compensation has not yet been paid for the floods of Janus since 2020. Lies on lies for communications, obviously, purposes. In this regard, as we have already mentioned, the cost of these measures, according to the General Accounting Office of the State, is around EUR 60 million. It is a drop in the ocean, that is, since only in Mandudi, Evia, it burned over a thousand houses, at least 100 million euros. We have raised a number of questions here, such as: Does the government really have to calculate the total cost even approximately? Will he find the money or as usual share empty promises? How does the EUR 500 million aid notified to the media relate to this amount? Will it be extra? If so, what will they include? Why was it announced that the overall reconstruction plan will be put under the supervision of the Prime Minister? Does he not trust his Ministers and public services or is it another communication trick? When will the 10 additional measures, which the Minister of Finance mentioned in his interview, be announced and how much will they cost? Where will they be financed? Reading how they include loans and housing assistance, as well as permitted advances for businesses and inhibitors, how will they be repaid by damaged people? In the second part, where forest services are carried to the Ministry of the Environment, is this so that it can open roads and connect the RES, photovoltaics and wind turbines? With regard to the definition of afforestation contractors, will we also have intervention by benefactors who give their name to forests, as is the case with hospitals? In relation to support for rhein processors up to EUR 7,500, is the case that the Minister promised recruitment in the winds of TERNA, the well-known national manufacturer who won and the Egnatia contest without another participant who came out first, i.e. without a second one? With regard to the third party measures, why is a ceiling of EUR 120,000 per beneficiary and 80% of the value of the property set? Didn't the government order the evacuation of the settlements? Isn't it her responsibility for 100% compensation? What about the plots below four acres, which under the new Hatzidakis law are not built? Exemptions will be granted? Will there be a freeze of evictions and auctions, which, in addition to being a humanitarian measure, also makes economic sense, since if auctions are being held now, prices will be degrading? In relation to subsidising the unemployment of workers in companies that have been destroyed, is it not wrong to give the same amount as the 'Cooperative' to direct or indirect firefighting, and for just three months? Unfortunately, the Minister has not been given any answer to our questions. So we consider it unacceptable to call for our support and vote in favour, except that, in general, this framework of aid is inadequate, if not pretextically, in general. Of course, we are not going to contribute to propaganda and communist reasons of law. This is not our mission in the House, and our conscience is not allowed. On the other hand, as far as the Relief Fund and citizens' donations are concerned, we all know that there is a very bad precedent from the Molyviatis Fund for Elias, which gathered 208 million and in 2011, having spent only 97 million, with the rest saying that they were subject to the 2020 public investment programme. So, logically, this today won't work either. As far as Article 3 is concerned, measures must also be extended to other regions. But really and not pre-standard measures, and above all, of course, apply and do not leave empty promises. Finally, in this context, the Government must draw up a real, effective, realistic plan for all those affected, in addition to taking into account the future risks to which they will be directly exposed, such as floods. Until then, the Minister will do well not to ask for our consent, especially when he does not answer any questions, as, unfortunately, does. And put aside the great words like the enemy of good is the best, since his government has caused enormous damage to the country without achieving any good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u11	To prepare for the Step, in which Mr. George Logiadis is called from Mera25. I also announce the five colleagues, the main speakers, one of each party: Andreas Nikolakopoulou, Christos Spirtzis, Odysseas Konstantinopoulos, George Marinos, Antonis Mylonakis. Others are in the Chamber, others aren't, alert to come. Mr. Loyadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u12	Thank you. We are starting the new parliamentary term with a draft law concerning three committees, the Standing Committee on Production and Trade, the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs and the Special Standing Committee on Environmental Protection at a single joint meeting where no one was invited to express their views on the enormous and timely issue of fires. Two legislative acts are now introduced into plenary. The first one was adopted on 5 August and concerns emergency measures to address the risk of fires. Its substance lies in the first two articles, where responsibility is transferred to the public's backs by bans and penalties, as was the case with the COVID pandemic -19, with foreigners and contradictory measures. There is no question of any effective protection, except prohibitions and fines are imposed on the government's regular tactics. It places its own responsibilities on non-existence of measures and on prevention, preparation, protection, treatment and repression of fires on citizens, individual responsibility as it likes to say. It avoids its own deliberate but also timeless omissions on the one hand and decides or orders and imposes penalties and invests politically in fear of citizens. The inefficiency of the state of government of excellence is evident, because the fires are called upon to handle more than forty-five competent bodies, of which only the sixteen different ministries are involved. Labyrinth of deliberate bureaucracy and polynomialism, as usual, then! The second legislative act was lodged on 13 August, entitled ‘Extended measures for effective protection and rapid restoration of the natural environment, direct support for the fire-fighting workers of July - August 2021 and related provisions’. This is where the term of afforestation contractors is established. Afforestation contractors may be designated as legal persons under public or private law, whether or not they are of a speculative nature. So, in fact, they are private. MERA25 stresses that all these studies and projects, restorations, reafforestations, must be carried out by the Public Forest Service and not by individuals with their own studies. What the current government has not done, but all the previous ones, now grants them to private contractors - the privateer and more efficient of the state - by privatising the state. I read exactly what the Minister for the Environment said on 26 August in his speech: 'The individual has no procedures. It can - and quickly - choose the forest cooperative that will build these works." Vaggelis Georgatzis, President Retinokalists and Forestry Evia publicly stated that the aim is to make Evia a huge wind park - "TERNA", "AKOOR" and "MYTILINEOS" are already making offers - and he continued by saying that Mr. Skrekas and Amyras came and presented "TERNA" as a benefactor who came to open streets. These are entirely in line with what he told us in October 2019, here in Parliament, the intergroup of German MPs, who told us that Greece would become a battery of Europe. I read from the book of the late professor of Administrative Law of the University of Thessaloniki Mr. Tahoo what he had predicted: "The Greek Administrative Law will cease to be Greek. Will it perhaps also typically cease to be administrative? Because if the political tendency to impose and not just the evolution of the system of absolute or almost total liberal economy prevails, it will also turn this law from public administration to private sector. The privatization of public affairs in people's needs will then be regulated by private law and not by public law.' That's the complete depreciation of the state, the ego over us. With Articles 9 to 14 it comes with so-called support and aid measures to share crustaceans with the affected, and Articles 15 to 21 concern classic postponements of payments to the DUs and the insurance funds, where all this is far from recovering the enormous losses. Both PPAs were submitted in the midst of the catastrophic fires, but which continued, so what are we talking about and what effectiveness are we talking about with so many staff shortages and outdated means, as the Prime Minister admitted in a speech in plenary on 25 August, saying that 'we have put the cubit high, but have passed below'? Cyber complete failure confession. On August 25, on this major subject, the Prime Minister was from 11 a.m. to 16 a.m. in plenary and after "Hello", a plenary that he fixed for August 25th. At 6 p.m. we were done this afternoon and obviously nothing was solved at all. Unfortunately, there has only been a series of courgette monologues, as our President Yiannis Varoufakis denounced. From a nine-year-old kid who was watching I heard later say they're fighting and yelling, but so they can't find a solution. Nine-year-old kid! Is that a Parliament quality? But I know her answer. But that's how it always happened, that's how all the previous governments did it. As a new Member, I wonder how many times this time-consuming major problem has been debated here in Parliament and every time after such a fire we are at a worse stage. The fires are becoming more and more catastrophic because all the factions that have governed this place do not want any effective solution to be given. I am very sorry about this situation and we refuse to take part, condemning your intentional policies. In the talks of political leaders about the fires New Democracy, SYRIZA, PASOK - KINAL, they were blaming what was to blame and what was to blame. But those who have over time ruled this poor place are responsible. In addition, over the last ten years you have signed the memorials that were imposed on us by the institutions and we are forced to produce unbearable primary surpluses, which lead to the depreciation and substantial enslavement of Greece. For what prevention, what timely intervention and repression to do when you don't have people and in? These are not for purely budgetary reasons because of these Memorandum commitments. For five hundred thousand acres in Evia the Forestry was given the sum of 20,000 euros for prevention. The Prime Minister has again used the usual practice here for decades to take responsibility elsewhere and not to the government, saying that the climate crisis is responsible for the fires. I would add here that this climate crisis is, of course, responsible for this year's great destruction of agricultural production of grapes and olives in Crete, where farmers rightly demand support for their real damage. The Merra25 stresses that the privatisation plans for the forest must be abandoned through contractors. The burned forest must not become the scope of mutated seeds nor a field planting wind turbines. The Merra25 further considers that private and business debts should be deleted and because of the coronary and because of the fires and not deferrals and prolongations of debts, just as the Athens Chamber of Commerce supports, Mr. Hadjithedosios, but also many other bodies. As MERA25 we have tabled concrete proposals summarised in the natural and proper reafforestation of the burned areas without mutated plants, trees from the forests, mobilisation of the local society and integration into the solution of the problem, so that no one leaves their place, long-term and full support for all the affected, no land use change for thirty years, protection against overcrowding those areas that burned, no wind turbines on land but only floating wind turbines with the use of three forms of energy, wind, wave and solar. Forest fire extinguishers should be subject to the forest firehouses rather than to the Fire Corps, as the Simitis Government did in 1998, contrary to what the unanimous conclusion of the Parliament's intergroup in 1992 was at that time. Adopt quick and effective penalties for arsonists. Finally, we support fair requests, as submitted by letters from Evia operators dated 12 August 2021 and the Evia Hotel Association on 17 August 2021. As a Greek MEP, I would like to thank all our fellow human beings, the heroic firefighters in the first line, the ordinary citizens, the volunteers, all for their every form of solidarity, but also all the foreign states who helped us in these very difficult days of fires and huge disasters. The front European Realist Disobedience for 2025 is voting against the draft law. In conclusion, I would like to highlight further the problem of subscribing public services, to mention the subscribing of Heraklion Crete's Fire Safety Office. The Technical Chamber of Heraklion, a section of Eastern Crete, states that Heraklion Prefecture is the third to a permanent population of the country and the largest to a population of the prefecture of Crete. At the Fire Safety Office of Heraklion, a fire safety controller remains, who is not sufficient to meet the needs of the service. This has the effect of delaying the tests of the fire safety studies or, if the fire safety study is not completed, the issue of the corresponding certificate cannot operate any hotel or business. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u13	The rapporteurs and the special speakers have been completed. Mr Andreas Nikolakopoulou is called in Stepma from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, our country, like many other countries, is in the wake of a great natural disaster. The recent fires, many of which unfortunately from arson, destroyed a large part of our ecosystem, part of our natural wealth. They destroyed agricultural and livestock land, property of people, labor of life. Unfortunately, they have brought us to the illusion that we are faced with a number of consequences and, of course, it is now clear to everyone that the climate crisis is a challenge of our time, which we must face seriously and decisively. Coming, however, from one of the prefectures that were severely affected and, for the second time, after fourteen years and from the beginning near the battlefield, I have to say from here, a great thank you to all these people who have given self-sacrificingly the battle on the front line, a battle with an unequal enemy in exceptional circumstances. Civil Protection, Firefighting, Armed Forces, Police, Self-government people, Forestry people, our volunteers and fellow citizens experienced the fire neck and all together fortunately managed to save thousands of human lives and prevent an even greater disaster. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] At the same time as we are talking about the land that has been burnt, we should also talk about how many fires have been confronted at the same time in different parts of the country and within the same areas. A thousand two hundred seventy - nine fires broke out in a few days, almost sixty a day. And at the same time that some were fighting, others were fighting hard and often hailed and unfair criticism of the safety of their keyboard and others saw this crisis as an opportunity for political exploitation. Ladies and gentlemen, the government, as Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis has pointed out, has, from the very first moment, raised the direct support for our every flammable fellow citizen. It has promised that in all the regions affected, the interventions required for their rehabilitation will be carried out immediately, which has also demonstrated the recent damage caused by the 'January'. This process has already been put into practice and has the characteristics of speed, transparency and justice. Throughout the country, autopsies have been completed by the engineers of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport for the buildings and businesses that have been affected, and controls by ELGA, enabling our fellow citizens to receive the compensation required for their rehabilitation. Through a simple application on the site arogi.gr our fellow citizens from all the fire-fighting areas are already receiving an advance payment of the compensation that is already tax-free, unexpected and irreparable. It is good for those who are rushing to criticize to remember that the restoration studies in Eye were completed three years later, to remember the statements made to firefighters that the EUR 2 000 will not do anything, that this is how they had a show of their staff, while our fellow citizens were fighting to save themselves from the murderous fires and have not asked for a single apology so far. Ladies and gentlemen, differences with the previous SYRIZA government are indeed too many in managing such crises, but at the moment we all need unity and seriousness. The proposed arrangements to ratify the legislative acts of 5 and 13 August 2021 lay down the necessary measures to address the risk of fires and to address the effects of the normal regeneration of the natural environment and the relief of the affected persons more quickly and effectively. In practice, on 13 August, the bans laid down are extremely important for all regions and of course also for Elias, the majority of whose population is supported by the health of this natural wealth which has been destroyed. And this reminds us that we must protect this precious gift that nature gives us and it is our obligation to deliver to our children an environment that will certainly not be worse than what we received. One of the main provisions of this act of legislation is the immediate proclamation of poor areas as resurrected, and indeed within thirty days instead of three months. The government from the outset and its programme positions - and not now - has fully understood the value of protecting our natural environment as a basic pillar of its development policy, for sustainable and green development. Ladies and gentlemen, we must all support these acts of legislation. Our firefighting fellow citizens, regardless of the size of their damage, must receive the necessary support and the legislative acts we are called upon to ratify are moving in this direction. The one-off exceptional financial support for each building and building facility to natural and legal persons, as well as the exemption from HNVIA for 2021, 2022 and 2023, both for property in areas where the fires have occurred and for parcels, are the necessary support measures for our affected fellow citizens. This support must be not only immediate but also complete. Furthermore, the establishment of the State Aid Fund in the form of a legal person governed by public law, which will be supervised by the Minister of Finance to finance programmes and actions supporting, strengthening and restoring the natural disasters affected by natural disasters, in addition to aid from the state budget, is the basis for our fellow citizens to feel confident and secure for the next day. In this context, it is worth mentioning also the special model of development programme, which the Prime Minister stressed last week in the House, which will also concern Elia. It is an extremely necessary plan, mainly for the areas of the Municipality of Ancient Olympia and the Municipality of Pyrgos which were directly affected, but also for the other areas that suffer indirect adverse consequences. The Elias Prefecture has, unfortunately, experienced the consequences of natural disasters in the past, especially fourteen years ago when we were called upon to face a murderous fire in our prefecture. To date, we have been wondering about the progress of strengthening the Molyviatis Fund, a fund that could guarantee not only financially, but also infrastructure for such disasters in the Prefecture of Elijah. That is why this time, support for the region must be integrated, universal and with a structured plan, and we must avoid the mistakes and failures of the past. By making use of all possible means, every financial instrument must lay the foundations from now on for the next day with the aim of regenerating our forests, creating basic infrastructure and networks and the direction of a united model of development of the region. We all have a duty to ensure not only the restoration, but also the reconstruction and the development of firefighting areas, and we will do whatever is necessary for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u15	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. Now Mr. Spirtzis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate would expect the citizens, with what the New Democracy has said and as opposition and as government, to have an upgraded presence today. Instead, after the laughter of the last few days, and for the remodelling and strategic patience and leaks, there are no phones - from specific economic centres, I imagine - we have the admission of the failure of two years, of the failure of citizens' security, of civil protection, of pandemics, of tourism and of all the other things that we will discuss next. We have a discount for the continuation of the same catastrophic Mitsotakis policy. Of course we also have the continuation of the political tradition of Mitsotakis in the transfer of persons from one side to another and then in their towering as lemon buttons. The orders aren't shirts. That's too bad! I would expect you to prove in practice, ladies and gentlemen, rather than in the words of your sympathy and what Mr Mitsotakis has said to the citizens affected by the fires. Today it turns out the opposite. The tears for the Eye were crocodile. There have been two years of absolute incompetence, absolute in order to prove the horror you have done and that you have continued to do. The recent proclamations of Mr.Mitsotakis on the supposedly rich support to the wounded were also false. Mr. Mitsotakis, with his apologies, did not save the image of total dissolution, chaotic coordination, helpless and unprotected citizens from the state's end. In Barobby, the fire went out and you let half Attica burn two days later. Parnitha, Barumbas, Kryoneri, Chrysoppigi, the Aphednes, were burned with apnea. There was no direct action to prevent and prevent fire at first. You left northern Evia, Elijah, Mani helpless. The chief of the Fire Service was three days in the beautiful Parnitha forest to burn it all down. In the rest of the regions, production has been completely destroyed. What is the provision for Elijah? I've heard your congressman too. Is that where you'll have another Mr. Beno running? What is the forecast for Olympia, Arcadia, for Mani? Of course in West Attica it proved and the proof of the perfect basilica and chaos was completed. Beriev told us it would be five days for maintenance in the anti-nuclear period. We almost had a plane accident with Ilyushin because there was no translator coordinator. The chief of the Fire Service on the first day was down at the Laurent. Strategic patience there too. And today, all the ministers appeared on the channels, not in the Chamber, who were missing during the time of the disaster, not to be at the meeting, as the citizens would expect, but to be involved in the final remodeling. Your soul, ladies and gentlemen, your thoughts, your mind, your agony, is not on the people who have been lost, it is not on the burners who have been injured, because you have not put a provision, a word in the MDGs, for those who have lost their homes, their properties, the labors of life. It's a strategic patience of remodelling. It's a new service term. We'll have to say that from today. Strategic patience until the "final state of Mitsotakis", until you get away, until the man who treated the pandemic so perfectly, told us that he would also face natural disasters, go away. Let's see some figures last year and today, on August 30th, 20 and those on August 30th, 1921: A hundred and fifty-seven were cases last year, two thousand thirty-three years, an increase of 1,500%, ten thousand thirty-four cases last year, five hundred three thousand, sixty-sixty-sixteen this year, an increase of 5,759, five per cent last year, three hundred and thirty-eight, an increase of 6,760%, two deaths last year, nineteen, an increase of 950%, a total of sixty-two deaths last year, fourteen thousand sixty-sixteen this year, an increase of 5.212%, and no one, nor one, nor read it out. We would have expected you to have predicted, completed, changed what we told you in committee. Twenty-four pages we gave you. You're asking us for proposals, we're making you, a change you don't make. It's not for SYRIZA or the opposition, it's for the citizens, for what you've forgotten, for the crocodile tears you've had. You have forgotten the EUR 5,000 exceptional allowance, you have forgotten that construction costs are currently at EUR 1.300, you have put it at EUR 1,000, you have deducted 20% from there, you have put an advance on what citizens are entitled to, you have forgotten about demolitions, public health, asbestos collection, burning trees, everything. You forgot the burners. Look at Matty for two years what you've done. Where's Matty again, Minister? This is the first bill you brought. A plot you cleaned up and made a finesse all over. Have you set a plot now and cut down the burnt trees from urban areas and forests - one - all over Greece in one and a half million acres? Ladies and gentlemen, in Elijah, in northern Evia, in Arcadia, it has no share. You should know that. You haven't gone and you're not going, though. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like a moment, Madam President, to have your patience a little. No, the strategic patience. When in an area such as the New Democracy there is neither a single reference to the committee nor today, even a Member of your Parliament, for a man who has lost his life in the fire, because the fire has entered his yard, for a man who has fought for New Democracy, Kostas Michalos, the president of the EVEA, sees what exists today in the New Democracy. One is very well aware of what exists. You haven't even given any condolences here to his family. We should give them to them, because we do not forget those who offer wherever they belong. And I close with this: We also continue our strategic patience until you leave the country's governance. Don't say anything about your mistakes, don't say anything about the citizens affected, asking for a fire-fighting vehicle, don't say anything to the mayors and regionals asking for an airspace. Call mayors, districts, channels to hide what really happened, one and a half million burnt acres, pandemic, the forty thousand young people who left outside the universities, the growth that has become recession, unemployment, the closed shops, hide them from the media. We're just having a strategic patience. You're going to leave. The countdown has started and is very soon. At this point, Madam President, I shall put forward our proposals again to what the government has forgotten and has not corrected them, because we have also given it to the committee. I'm tabling a calendar of the SYRIZA government's actions in Matti, to prove that neither bureaucracy can be dealt with at all. [[At this point the Member, Christos Spirtzis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u17	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Mr Constantinople has the floor now from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will go directly to the point, because George Arvanitidis, the colleague and rapporteur, has spoken in detail about the PPP. And I would like to speak because I think there are various colleagues here and from other regions, outside Evia, who are looking - and I think we are all looking for a fair way to deal with. In any case, we recognise and understand that in Evia there has been a very great disaster and we believe that we need to get out in front to support the people in this region, now, the next day for the floods. But similar problems exist in other regions. I want to tell you a little bit about Arcadia. In Arcadia, hundreds of thousands of acres have been burned in the last few years. In fact, the Vice-President, Mr Lambropoulos, who is the New Democracy's party yesterday, says to the Regional Council - and I will present it in the Minutes - ‘EUR 30,000,000, the destruction of fires in infrastructure in Arcadia’. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So far, Arcadia has been given by the state to the municipalities of 300,000 euros - I think - to the Municipality of Gortini and 250,000 euros to the Municipality of Megalopolis. There are other areas, such as Ilias, but also other areas such as the Megarras, for example, for which I have tabled a question, Mr Amyras, according to which a man whose winery has been burned for three months has not received a single euro. I asked you a specific question, with a specific name, specific procedures. And now we're going to specifics. Look, regions such as Gortini are regions that are difficult to reach, difficult areas. More easily, for example, they will go to ancient Olympia or to Tower rather than to Tripoli. The new world has been greatly reduced and this fire may give him the final blow. So we really need immediate and rapid responses to these issues. Beyond the issues you have said, and I see the disasters and all that, we must give an incentive to these people, Minister, to have income rather than an allowance - and the allowance needs - for the next six to seven years. In other words, the olives and olives, or in any case some who had pomegranates, have been completely destroyed. That takes four and five years. I understand that something similar has been considered for the resin producers, for the beekeepers, why are there problems in Evia, but in Arcadia what are you going to do for them? You haven't told us. We have two specific proposals, which we also have a topical question next week, on Monday, to you, your ministry on two specific issues. Firstly, the repayable advances in the firefighting regions of Evia cannot be reversed, as the Government has announced in the other regions, such as Arcadia, Elias and other counties, will not be the case. That's not equivalency. And we would like an answer to that. What's going on? Do we play on two levels? How is that possible? In Evia - and rightly so - do the returnees not come back, but in the other areas that have been burnt to turn and returned by the entrepreneurs? There is a need for a uniform way of not turning back advances from the fire-fighting areas. Minister, I told you something that I think we all need in order to be able to cope with this disaster in a timely manner. Here we have to make a choice, it is your Ministry's choice and it is about PVs. Incentives should be given for small photovoltaics of 100 KW -500 KW to those people who, for example, were burned to death. Also in our region, in the lower Gortynia, there is an olive mill that has not been burned. But since 80% of production has been burnt, what is it to do with it? So we should give these people an income. Who gives them income? A little photovoltaic. Instead of giving part of the major players of the market - they have space to get -, they should in Evia, Arcadia, Elias and other prefectures, people who were engaged in the primary sector or those who have burned up and want a long time to build - the olives, for example, want five, six years to start again and produce - to be able either through the new NSRF or, for example, in Arcadia by making the money for liberation. In Arcadia, there is the possibility of re-entering the money for liberation and supporting these areas, one is in Megalopolis and the other is in Gortynia. And thirdly, Minister, I want to tell you one fact although you are not responsible. We in Arcadia, at the bottom of Gortynia, had a volunteer who lost his eye. His parents and his family are asking the fire department and the police for a record of the incident and, unfortunately, they haven't received it until today. I call it public. It's a man who came in front, a volunteer, a farmer in the region. The competent authorities of the State shall not record the incident. It's inhuman. I conclude by saying that in the last few days both in the intensity of demonstrations and of lights, there is a bright exception. I will outline the culture of my party, PASOK, which does not enter into civil war conflicts, does not care to cast oil on fire, but how the crisis for the good of the country will be overcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, too. Mr Marinos from the Communist Party of Greece now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Madam President. The Communist Party of Greece, together with the people, gave the battle for fires and today fights with him for his fair claims, which the government refuses to satisfy. We lived the fire in northern Evia. He burned down the forests and popular property and the government's responsibilities are criminal. It is a criminal policy implemented over time by the governments of the New Democracy, PASOK and SYRIZA. They are forested, the commercialisation of the land, trespasses and changes in use in state forests and forest lands, facilities of wind parks even in areas of particular natural beauty. The Communist Party of Greece with dozens of interventions has required measures of forest protection and firefighting. But you did not take prevention measures, gentlemen of the government, nor did you even create anti-nuclear zones, forest roads, water security. You are accomplices for the years of sub-financing and the sub-surfacement of fire-fighting and forest fire-fighting, for old fire-fighting vehicles and you use the climate crisis as an excuse to escape. Your responsibilities will be apportioned. You are all facing people's needs as a cost and you consider the profits of business groups to be a benefit. The bourgeois state that shows its frustration against the people as a guardian of capitalist barbarism has shown its nakedness in protecting the forest and the popular property. The fire in northern Evia could be checked from the first 24 hours. The government, however, refused to impose adequate fire-fighting equipment. There was no plan and coordination. The assistance of the European Union mechanism, as every time it was a tragedy. The villages were rescued thanks to the self-sacrificing of the old men who stayed behind and did not follow the blind and without a plan to evacuate. The fewer forces of the firefighting were without guidance and assistance. The disaster is a huge, overall, and the Legislative Content Act is dramatically behind people's needs. That is why we are voting against. The doses you are advertising, Minister, do not cover the damage. And stop playing with the pain of the people's families your policy ruined them. On August 21, the grand mobilisation of the people of Evia at the Strofakia node gave a decisive response. A great fight, a wave of solidarity, thousands of people condemned the policy that burned them and mocked them. They've formulated their demands. The resolution adopted is contemplated, realistic and that supports the JRC. Exceptional financial aid without conditions and conditions. Compensation 100% for each house, stable, warehouse, animals and crops, agricultural equipment. Real income replacement for all. Rehabilitation of the forest, anti-military works now, because the danger is immediate. The resin farmers were found on the road and must be paid directly for the production of 2020 and 2021. Ensure permanent work with a contract of employment, wages and rights to reafforestation, preservation of the forest. Retirement to fifty-five years for men and for fifty for women for those who want four and a half thousand bad signals. The proposal by the Prime Minister for the so-called joint projects of EUR 530 mixed is unacceptable and it is also provocative that blackmail should become the retina slaves of TERNA and every TERNA. Farmers, beekeepers have suffered a great deal of damage and we demand compensation from the first to the last animal and hive, without exceptions. Foodstuffs for animals and bee-keeping. The preconditions of the former ESDP for plant production provide for unacceptable exclusion, at least 50% cut in compensation to non-private farmers. Thousands of olives were burned, oil producers destroyed and cannot live in the coming years to 10 euros a year per tree. Substantial support for small businesses in tourism and focus. You've been trying to gold the pill with HISPIDA discharge for three years. Then what happens? Where will the people's families find their resources? This is why it is necessary not only to extend the exemptions, but to abolish the HPAI, to delete the debts of taxed persons, banks, PPC, to cover insurance contributions from the State. Prepayments for burnt houses, stables, warehouses are not sufficient to make studies, buy materials, pay the accountants for the files. You underestimate the damage, Minister, and you drive the firemen to the banks in loans that they cannot repay. Reforestation with state responsibility without contractors, single design with scientific criteria. What don't you understand? Don't you know about land trespasses and changes in land use, the targets of predators in construction, tourism, energy, contractors who are being imprisoned? The Committee on Reconstruction under Mr Beno is a promoter of entrepreneurial interests on the line of so-called green development, growth for the few with a dance of billions from the Development Fund, the known memorandum. The people are full of great words. You all ruled in the 21st century and remains a dangerous road network condemning winter in isolation in northern Evia. Health centers are abandoned. A year from the flood in August 2020 in Lelantio Field and the Municipality of Dirfion-Messapion, no substantial flooding has taken place. Flooders fight and suffer. Many have also been excluded from the inadequate compensation and those who took something, have paid multiples for the restoration. That is why we tell our people no confidence in the government and the parties that serve the interests of big capital. Again, because only the people can save the people, end up with this rotten system and open up the way to satisfying their needs without exploiters and fakes. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u21	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Mr. Mylonakis now has the floor from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister's apologies obviously took flesh and bone today, ending with Mr Chrysochoidis, the State Secretary for Civil Protection and the Minister for Health. So he indirectly admitted but clearly the Prime Minister that criminal errors, which had been made, could have been avoided and therefore the great disaster that was done with more than a million thousands of acres of land and people who lost their homes, their livelihood, their professional status, could not have happened. Of course I have heard - and I say it about SYRIZA - Mr Spiritzi, who said that it is a pity that the government of ministers is borrowing from other parties. You have no complaint, gentlemen of SYRIZA. You've built a tripartite government now. There was the New Democracy with the Change Movement, now it put you in the game. After all, Mr. Tsipras had asked for it. And I would just like one question to ask him if he was here and if he would answer: When did they contact Mr. Mitsotakis before they put Mr. Apostolakis? It's not bad. He had himself asked to put a face of mutual acceptance and found the man for all the missions, the man who has undertaken for your day to sign the treacherous Prespecies Agreement, when Mr. Kammens left. So now you have no complaints. It's time to collide, Mr. Minister, New Democracy, SYRIZA, the Change Movement is yours, you have no problem. The Greek people, however, must know the truth when they vote, what they vote for. And above all, what the Greek Solution wants and has said too many times is to wake the hypnotized giant of 55% of the Greek people who do not go to vote, to come to vote, to see the programs, to see who mock him, to see who is telling him the truth and to give only four years to the Greek Solution, and then we'll talk about it. Because whatever we can tell you, no matter what proposals we made, you didn't hear about the fires. We had told you many times last Thursday and last Thursday when we had a large meeting in the Municipality of Acharon in Menidio with the district manager, with the professional chambers, with MPs, that 60% more and more so as not to have a forest disaster of fire is prevention, 40% suppression. How do we not understand that thing? Gentlemen of the government, you have failed. You have failed for one single reason, because you all think they are going through the Greek people through the media. You're making fun of the world. You didn't do anything to prevent. And I'm going to tell you something that I've lived through many years of experience in the Armed Forces, especially as a pilot, who first made surveillance old with U-17 and Attica and the Peloponnese and the major cities from the first to the last light. Now it could be done with drones this surveillance too easily, inexpensively. Second, we were firing fires with the containers of the helicopters. Now they're inside. Before we get to the repression, however, we must know that we must have done certain things to prevent it. And what are these? So simple, anti-nuclear zones. How many times have you heard us talk about these things? People say: "But the fireman" and they throw them at firefighters, who people and few are, because you have reduced the fire protection. The five thousand forests, which we used to tell them, which existed until some time ago, were not renewed except for a thousand five hundred who last took and the forest guards who had to be in some parts of the forest and, of course, the anti-nuclear areas. People said: "But firefighters don't enter the woods. We see the fire and it doesn't erase." But how will they get in the woods? How will the vehicle get in when there are no routes? And I will tell you something, Minister, I would like you to note this, please, for the Hippocratic State. Watch out. In 2020, the State Hippocrates Risk Management Unit - I have it here and I will testify, I said it then to both the district manager and the mayor and the ministry - had sent a whole situation. Apart from the cranes that exist - they do not exist, most of them were damaged - there was no water, there was no power generator couple to be able to play the role that they must, anti-nuclear zones had been designed. Look here, Minister, designed anti-nuclear areas, which never happened. Is it the masters' fault? Is it the Ministry's fault? Is it the periphery? Is it the city's fault? It must be someone's fault at last! Cleaning and opening of forestry routes where necessary, cranes, power-generating pairs to be in operation. We need to know that they have their fuel, that they work. Substituting the cables. Plans updated and tested. Are there any plans that have been tested recently, updated? To know that they're going here, they're going through these routes, here's the routes that are in the woods. There was nothing. How's he gonna get in there? And you know something. Because everyone shouts about air means air, the air means does not erase the fire. The air means limiting the fire, delimiting the fire. The fire enters the ground and goes off the ground. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Remember everyone we used to be soldiers that we were all going together and we were ringing with tears. Those who remember. Now there's no homicide. The world shouts: "Where are the maniacs, children?" No place for the maniacs, not because there are no maniacs that we should have new fire trucks, but because there are no routes for people to pass. How can the fire turn out? So, fatefulness will burn the whole forest. We also do not care to give the command to leave the pine trees near the houses, as well as on the forest firefields. Minister, we must now, two hundred and two hundred meters, as has been done in Italy, change the tree. The pine must be changed immediately. Why, then, have the Italians done it by 80% and we haven't done anything? We've been burning all these years. Couldn't even understand that? There are trees that don't burn so easily. With all this we see that the omissions were too many. What the Greek Solution says is now immediately what we have proposed. The President of Parliament yesterday, on the last day he spoke, also tabled a draft for a fire. We will also testify for floods, we will also testify for any natural disaster. We also say: Compensation 100% for all those who lost their home. Houses must, Minister, be rebuilt. It's not people's fault. I'm going to tell you something that we've been dealing with and with Matty. You remember that. Because you're a Minister trying. I say it. In the eye there are still people who haven't taken the compensation to get into their homes. CEDEFOP yells, CASE yells. He tells you people still live here. And they're kicking them out. Where are these people going to stay?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u23	Mr. Comrade, you have to close down.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u24	There are certain families - I had told Mr Kefaliannis - who have not yet taken money to rebuild their home. It's unbelievable these things, getting into bureaucracy. Also, 100% compensation to all professionals who have to start working.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u25	Mr. Comrade, you have to close down.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u26	I shall conclude, Madam President, and thank you very much for your tolerance. Not this incompatibility, the unbelievable thing for me, to give jobs - it says - the lyricists and others go to work in TERNA for wind turbines. What are these things? What are the things you're doing? They're unbelievable. I believe that we can start all together immediately, build projects that will take off what we are saying. Direct actions. There must also be the roads and the cranes and the subjugation of cables, the change of trees and the compensation of people. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, too. We're entering the second cycle with a natural presence. Now Mr Kelles has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the ratification of Acts of Legislative Content on the protection of the environment and the compensation of those affected by the recent fires is extremely valuable. I say this, firstly, because state law becomes a coherent set of government interventions and actions that strengthen the state mechanism to cope with more effective threats, while those who saw their properties burned. Secondly, the citizens are given the opportunity to compare the effectiveness and the morality of the Mitsotakis and Tsipras administrations. Indeed, the fires in August caused great environmental damage, as more than a million acres of forests and crops were burned, while significant damage to houses and businesses was caused. However, ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the loss of the heroic volunteer firefighter, we had no loss to human lives. And that's the most important thing, because, above all, for every government, it's human life. And you, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, are not just ignoring that, but you are struggling with it. I don't want to imagine that you want to forget about the great tragedy of 2018. And now you blame the Civilian Ministry for implementing the evacuation strategy. You blame us for saving lives. Unless you want to offset human losses with burnt acres. Also, for the first time a Prime Minister had the political courage to apologize. 112, the number of civil protection proved to be salvaged, and the reinforcement of the air fire-fighting instruments, which in Greece this year is much more proportional than in the other Mediterranean countries. Under the present draft law, the Government is subject to a major reform, subject to all the forestry services from the decentralised administrations in the Ministry of the Environment. Thus, forest services are transported to the hard core of public administration and it ensures better coordination with the Ministry of Civil Protection, which we do not forget for days SYRIZA - ANEL was just a forgotten unit of the Ministry of Civil Protection. On the other hand, it has made a decisive contribution to dealing with the pandemic. A common element of the fight against fire fronts and pandemic is the dispersion of false news, especially through social media. The vaccine-negatives, after the signs and monsters they have developed with regard to COVID -19, have found a new conspiracy now, the conspiracy of wind turbines, which is cultivated by extreme political circles that try to either emerge or survive politically. First of all, citizens must be aware that the installation of wind turbines is permitted in forests, according to the opinion of the Council of State. In accordance with Article 117 of the Constitution, forest land burned is declared compulsory reservoirs and may not be disposed of for any other destination. In addition, this law reduces the mandatory area declared as a reservoir from ninety days to thirty days and the necessary forestry works are accelerated. At the same time, however, we must bear in mind that the installation of wind turbines is about the public interest and is a way of producing renewable energy. The pan-European objective is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 55% by 2030 and to zero them by 2050. This is a supranational strategy, which we are called upon to implement by investing in RES and promoting liberation. The use of solar, wind and water energy has certainly nothing to do with the fires as you well understand. This is the reality, ladies and gentlemen, and we must inform our fellow citizens so that they do not be misled by every word in the keyboard. After all, fires are not exclusively a Greek phenomenon. Great fires face every year both the United States of America and Russia, which are the most powerful military forces on the planet. There too, forest land is burned and damage is caused as a result of climate change and the human factor. And the southern Europe was tested this year both in Turkey and Algeria. Was the cause of the fires, or did it not work the way the relevant civil protection services should? The truth is that our homeland has had to deal with a similar heat wave since 1987. Of course, drought together with high fuel loads have created particularly favourable conditions for ignition, spreading and rejuvenating the outbreaks, as well as for arsons. The suppression of a thousand hundred and ninety-seven fires in the first days of August was an unprecedented challenge for Greek data. It goes without saying that we need to further improve our capabilities and become even more effective, drawing experience and know-how from our partners and investing more money in civil protection. Through the NSRF 2021-2027 we have secured resources of 2 billion euros and constitute the largest civil protection programme ever implemented in the country. Accordingly, the Government has arranged for firefighting compensation. By showing directly reflexes and at a remarkable speed, the arogi.gov.gr was established in which the wounded submit their applications and have already been made at EUR 16,713.000 to three thousand and seven unique VETs. This draft law affirms both the creation of arogi.gov.gr through the Single Digital Gate and the compensation of those who have suffered damage to homes, farming enterprises. At the same time, compensation is provided for the injured, public appointments for victims with a disability rate of more than 67%, as well as the possibility of transferring students and extending the "Digital Care" programme to affected students, students and teachers. Do you remember, ladies and gentlemen, after the tragedy in Eye, a similar holistic approach to support for the affected? Of course not. These are our differences! The citizens, the large and silent majority of the Greek people, understand them and send their messages without dealing with the noisy minorities of conspiracies and those who invest in the disasters in order to fill political gaps and their inability to argue about the country's good and progress. Along with the social majority we move forward and change everything. We go together to tomorrow, making our homeland more resistant to challenges and ensuring a sustainable future for the new generation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Alexiadis now has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Madam President. The presence of only four New Democracy MPs in the Chamber shows their enthusiasm for the reshaping. But let me not scratch wounds on a difficult day for the New Democracy. Let me not scratch wounds, especially for the composition of this government. Let me come to the bill. You know, when the country has gone through a period of so many major disasters, so much loss of human lives due to pandemic, in disasters of such great size, unprecedented in time, in the country, as well as destruction of property, homes, businesses, one would expect the government to assume an elementary responsibility for understanding, mildness, dialogue. I have listened with great surprise to the rapporteur of the New Democracy - who has already been rewarded by the Prime Minister, as I have seen, taking a responsibility - to speak to the Committee on Economic Affairs and to celebrate 'government culture that is worthy of a modern country'. After all we've seen, celebrate and think it was all perfect! It does not even read the "BIMA", which has begun degradation because they understand even the ones and in a very good article today are talking about "the injured Mr. Mitsotakis". Mr Mitsotakis, as he has shown with the reshaping, raises a huge political question that I hope someone from the government or from the New Democracy will answer later. After everything became perfect at the pandemic, at the suppression of lights, etc., why did the ministers responsible change? Unless Mr. Mitsotakis found the "mozzouris", according to the commonly called, if we found out who to blame. Since there is no responsibility, since we did not understand what was wrong with the government, why did the relevant ministers change? You know, ladies and gentlemen, it is very important for a party to have a sense of reality, but also empathy. I do not want to analyse one another and the other, but it is very important to have them. Unfortunately, the New Democracy has proved, through its rapporteur, that it has neither. For instead of looking for dialogue, consultation, common consensus, in the committee discussed by the bill, we have heard an arrogant political speech expressing the New Democracy. We must look specifically for a reasonable consultation with society in a period of disasters. I would remind you that there has been no debate in this House on this very serious bill. We have not even called on the competent bodies to place themselves, even the bodies, the districts, the mayors, etc. I don't know if they're still in your ideological space. We have therefore heard the majority rapporteur point out to the opposition a sterile speech, a role of populist, a primitive political culture and an inappropriate parliamentary participation. Hey, mercy at last! Mercy, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy! In the recent fires even the blind saw your uselessness, the unwitting of the excellence and the overriding state of service in all its majesty! Management of the event with the fires going out into the sea showed your inadequacy. The incredible excuses that followed, seeing a bough in peace and measuring aircraft flying only in your imagination, while they didn't see it and even your fellow citizens in the regions, came to add to what you know well to do from the first day you took over, to divorce with reality in news reports. I can remind you of many cases of scandalous management, inadequacy, data concealment, non-response, non-information, curious assignments and a series of scandalous provisions. But that's not enough. Let's come to the bill we're talking about here today. The bill, quite rightly, and that is self-evident, provides inappropriate for many cases of compensation for resin farmers, for business issues, for homes, etc. I searched, Minister, the bill is not exclusively within your competence, it is in your responsibility, it has to do with the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Labour. I didn't find it even though I've been reading several years' bills, I didn't find it. Please remind me very much of the article that provides for the request I make. Well, well, and it is self-evident, you have in the bill provisions on the incompatibility of compensation and tax-free. I don't want to talk about that any more, it goes without saying. But those who will receive compensation because their home was burned, their business, forests, etc., tell me what article does anything for their tax debts, insurance funds, banks? Unless all these people, as if nothing happened in their area, will go to make debt arrangements or settle out of the "leaf trees" that have been unburned in their obligations. It is simple - and please provide for it either today or tomorrow - to freeze the obligations of those who are entitled to compensation from any reason for at least one year, with income and assets criteria, of course, so as not to be blamed for anything else. And I see, Minister, with great pleasure, that the government, despite the fact that certain issues of the "final" state are not doing so well, in some other "final" state is present and "current" cases. I shall conclude, Madam President, with two proposals. It was present this summer on the issue of Egnatia Road, another huge scandal that was arranged summer, in August, is the "final" state on the issue of the "COSCO" – Greek state agreement. I will remind you every time I take this scandal to the Step that you know that Greek justice, whether in one way or another, will deal with it. I would also like to congratulate your 'final' state for this: Thursday the Committee on Economic Affairs and the other committees debated the bill. You brought the amendment we are debating today on Friday - it was not the 'final' state to bring us to committee on Thursday - at 20.00 p.m. and at 18.30 p.m. you tabled another amendment from the Ministry of Finance, which will be discussed in tomorrow's bill! I have only to congratulate your "end" state, to congratulate those ministers who have left, to say good strength to those who have left, and above all to stress what Mr Spirtz said, that we will not make strategic patience to leave, we will do everything possible to get as fast as possible. Thank you for your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u31	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Now Mrs Dunia has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u32	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after last year's pandemic, Greece experienced, unfortunately, a very bad summer, a summer with an extermination, both in intensity and during, heat and with a very hard battle with hundreds of fireheads. The extent of the disaster especially in Evia and Attica has also blackened the hearts of all of us. In this battle, the protection of human life was our first and only goal. Fortunately, the mechanism of early and coordinated evacuations of the areas at risk acted as a shield for our fellow human beings against fire scaffolding. Thus, we managed not to mourn victims, although we lost Vassilis, a heroic volunteer, to which all of us owe much. We have, however, protected thousands of our fellow citizens. Despite the immediate intervention of the Civil Protection and the great sacrifice of firefighters and volunteers, unfortunately many of our fellow citizens have lost their property, they have seen the troubles of life being destroyed in front of their eyes. Their desperation is perfectly understandable, which is why the state has committed itself to be at their side - and it will be - as, after all, after the floods of 'January' in Thessaly and the great earthquake of Samos. Ladies and gentlemen, the government - as the Prime Minister has pointed out - will not leave any firefighting helpless and any of the regions affected without the interventions needed to restore them. The state's essential support is demonstrated by the legislative acts that we are called upon to ratify today. These measures certainly do not change what has happened, but they will allow us to ease their effects and prevent them from happening again. In particular, between everything provided for in the legislative acts of 5 and 13 August we find compensation through applications on the online platform arogi.gov.gr for the first needs of households for construction. So far, in just a few days, i.e. since the start of the arogi.gov.gr platform, more than 10.4m euros have been allocated. The amount of compensation depends on the extent of the damage, but also on the particular circumstances of each family. If it is, for example, multiple, if it involves people with disabilities and others. We also find financial aid for the repair or replacement of the main house wounded, as well as for those who have suffered injury to the natural disaster. The amounts of the above financial aid are worth mentioning that they are duty-free, unrestricted and inconsistent. We also find arrangements for housing assistance to natural and legal persons for the restoration of buildings, grants to businesses and farmers affected by fires, suspension of all outstanding accredited and late tax obligations for both enterprises and natural persons affected for a period of six months, suspension of any enforcement operation on the mobile or immovable property of the affected persons, exemption from HNVY for buildings and parcels for the years 2021 to 2023, regulation and suspension of contributions, grant of a rental partnership to cover the costs of the temporary housing of the permanent residents whose housing was affected by the fires, as well as the possibility of recruitment to the public or the public sector for persons who suffered serious burns or who had a specific disability due to the fires. At the same time, student support measures are provided for in the case of firefighting, as well as the establishment of a State aid fund in the form of a legal person governed by public law. This fund will be supervised by the Minister of Finance and its purpose will be to finance support programmes and actions and to strengthen affected and natural disasters. Now, as regards the effective protection and rapid restoration of the natural environment, ladies and gentlemen, according to these legislative acts, the burnt areas are declared to be resurrected within thirty days instead of the ninety days that have been in place so far, and the subjection of forest services by decentralised administrations to the Ministry of the Environment and Energy is promoted. This is a major structural change, as forests will now fall under the Ministry of the Environment under the Ministry of State and the Directorate-General for Forests, so that there will be a single supervisory centre that determines our forestry policy and oversees forests. It is also planned to speed up specific forestry projects and simplify the procedure for authorising the termination of burnt trees and to introduce the improperness of workers' payments both from the public and from third parties. Ladies and gentlemen, on issues such as the catastrophic fires we experienced in the summer, there are no sterile opposition and party controversy. The truth is one: in spite of the unprecedented circumstances that have been called upon to face, the government has moved fast and aptly to protect the supreme good of human life. I'm sure the homes that have been hard to burn will be rebuilt, but they'll be rebuilt. Also, the forests will become again even after years. Human lives, however, if they were lost, would not come back. The importance given by the New Democracy since its inception in Political Protection is reflected in the successful operation of the 112-based telephone centre, which will be a reserve for the future, and in the considerable investment already made in this area. A simple comparison between 2018 and 2021 is enough. Civil Protection expenditure in 2018 amounted to EUR 400 million, and today it has increased by 56% to EUR 616 million. Respectively, the employees of the Fire Service increased by 15.6% compared to 2018 when the air-fighting equipment increased by 45%. It is a fact, ladies and gentlemen, that climate change requires us to change everything: the way we move, the way we produce energy, the way we build our homes. That is why the Government has provided EUR 18.5 billion from the plan ‘Greece 2.0’ and from the resources of the NRP, so that one of the four pillars of the first recovery plan relates to the green economy. Beyond the numbers and above all we must all be united in the face of such major ecological disasters, because only in this way will we be able to achieve important national objectives such as tackling the climate crisis, which has made its presence here this year, unfortunately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u33	Thank you very much, my colleague. The parliamentary spokesman for SYRIZA Mr Euklidis Tsakalotos has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u34	Thank you very much, Madam President. Really, Minister? Thanasis Plenipotentiary Minister for Health? Can I read you what he said a few years ago? "When you're here there will be no social benefits, you won't be able to eat, drink, you won't be able to go to the hospital. Hell must be a paradise in what will live here." Can this man be a Minister of Health? There is no oath of Hippocrates, there is no humanism, no international conditions, and you put this man Minister of Health? Do you think the citizens will feel security with this choice of Prime Minister? On Twitter they asked him to withdraw. He said it was an old statement. And it was, in fact, an old statement, but it didn't. In our view, you have two options. The first option is to withdraw now, before the oath. The other option is for Mr Mitsotakis to withdraw his decision, because it is not possible in a European country for there to be a Minister for Health who has said these things! There are moments, ladies and gentlemen, motions by the English, where you understand that something is radically changing in the political and social climate. One moment, a motion was the "Bller Moment". It was the war in Iraq, there was Abu Graib and the tortures, there were images of how they mistreated Iraqi soldiers. In an interview when Blair "what do you say about it?" Blair replied: "Don't forget that we are learning a lot of information from the tortures." It was the time that many British people realised that something has changed, that any moral element had this man lost. And from there, the curse began, which we learned there were no weapons of mass destruction, and Tony Blair never returned. We see the results now in Afghanistan, which the Western democracies think can bomb, intervene and have support from the people. And everyone has participated in this and the Greek governments. Is it an answer to what's happening in Afghanistan to not accept any immigrant? Does it have to do with European culture, the real, not today's governments? Does the government press for another policy in Europe that has enormous responsibilities, along with the United States of America, of course? Is he pushing for a different policy? I don't think so. The same policy continues, the bombing continues and no one can believe that it will be supported by these peoples, as well as destructive as the Taliban, no matter how devastated they are. This summer, in keeping with the analogy, we had the "Metsotakis moment", at the moment of Mr. Mitsotakis in the interview for the fires, which we all knew he had no understanding of. For the disasters described by Vangelis Apostolos and Christos Spirtzis, for these huge disasters, it did not seem to feel that something very serious was happening. I won't talk about disasters. I'm going to talk about the proposals he accepted to Goldamer and his committee, and he didn't do anything. He told us that someone got one of these, while he was committed that Goldmer is a consensual solution to learn sometime, to be able to feel that something can change. That the world has to have private security, is that a solution? That, as our rapporteur said, individuals to reafforestate is a solution instead of saying for sure that no private person enters where the fires have been made? All your moves show that you do not understand the size of the climate crisis, that it is not only a natural phenomenon, but it is also the people who have created it and their model, that it is the selfishness and private model that has created this climate. And what are you doing in a bill that you bring after another bill? Looks like you still don't understand anything. When we had thirty-six management bodies, which you merge them into twenty-four and put them under a Single Organisation for the Environment and Climate Change, what do you say? The decentralised participatory management model is replaced by a model strictly controlled by the central state, without genuine involvement of local government, NGOs, productive bodies and civil society. That's your model. Your model that has learned nothing this summer, that if we are to face the climate crisis, we must activate everyone, instead of saying that everything will solve the final state, which seemed to be unable. That's what we learned. We have learned how important the people who were there were, the young people, the volunteers, the deceived masters, who know as the back of their hand where the stream is, where the path is, where the fire extinguisher must go. They know, the central state can't know. Instead of understanding this and coming to say 'I'm sorry, we have learned something, we have to change the model', we continue with a treatment that creates insecurity for the citizens. Why, when we leave 'bugs', as Mr Apostlelos has shown you, in this bill and like Mr Famelos has developed you in a bill before the holidays, with similar 'bricks' for the forest land, what security does the citizen feel, that we will not have any more such consequences? Mr. Mitsotakis had three slogans to win the 2019 election. One was security. I see insecurity everywhere. But everywhere! Citizens feel they can't plan because they don't know where the next evil will come from. What about health, which the NSA can't believe? Many other governments, too, who did not believe it, have made some moves about it. Now, in the pandemic, do you bring merges? Do you really think that by mergers in this particular era citizens will feel more security when you have given the primary health to be able to cope with the more than eighty years of age, where the percentage still not vaccinated is too high? Could a decentralised primary health system help them get vaccinated, because most of those who are over eighty years old are not uninvasive. But you're also making mistakes about the vaccinated and the uninfected. In the vaccinated, you have created the picture that all is well, do the vaccine and it's over. It's a big mistake. It's a big mistake, because he put the vaccinated ones on the opposite tone to those who are negative. And the negative ones didn't try to convince them with a huge campaign, you didn't ask for the help of Anti-Population, to campaign together, to convince the world to make the vaccinations that SYRIZA supports as the main measure of tackling this crisis. Why? Because you do not believe either in the national health system or in planning, and that creates insecurity. We are now going to the universities and what has been done with the 'cuts'. The government's account is "why go to thirty students for alternative gardening at the University of Upper Vlatou?" That, I understand, is your main argument. But the results aren't. How can you justify the fact that an exceptional department, the Physics Heraklion, with a hundred and fifty so many places, will go thirty - four? Why should this be done and not go more to the physics department of the University of Crete, which is an excellent department? Maybe even students who have lower grades to develop them, help them. Does that not create an insecurity in society? Doesn't it create the sense of inequality, which is the other side of the same currency of insecurity? Because you say that the university is for the few, and the others will have to find in the free market, with low wages, whatever prospects they can find. Isn't that insecurity? Should we not have a very broad definition of security? The security in the neighborhood, of course, against crime, but the fact that you have pensions - will be discussing this tomorrow and tomorrow - that you will be able to find a job, that you will have a job prospects, that there will be a health system, that there will be care at home, that like the other countries in Europe we want to increase the number of our children who go to education universities? Education for us is self-worth, no matter what effects it has on growth? It's a positive thing on its own. This is what I have tried in my speeches to tell Mrs Keramea and she does not understand. It's not a tooling thing to do, it's something that secures you, because you have knowledge. Ladies and gentlemen, we need new values, following the triple crisis, climate, economic and health. We need to find out again what it means to be participation and solidarity and how we activate an entire society. We need a new model, and production and consumption, with concrete measures to deal with climate change, with prevention, in a different way to produce alternatives to lesser size. We need to think together what you can do to this productive model. And consumption. Can this solve all the problems in the private sector? Do you really think so? Do you think that the private sector, which wants growth, can be the main lever facing climate change? New values, new model, new government. The moment Mitsotakis - remember it - is summer 2021. It is the moment that many have realised that something is not going very well either with the ultimate state or with the health system or with the response of climate change. The citizens have understood, in other words - slowly this will appear - that we want new values, a new development model and a new government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Now Mr. Kamines has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are here today and are discussing after an unprecedented failure of the civil protection mechanism and the state as a whole to protect the country's natural wealth, as well as the properties of thousands of families. It is a failure not only by the lack of resources that Mr Scorchos assured us of, but also by the apologies of the Prime Minister and his reference to weaknesses. Failed to be confessed to disaster data from the record of burnt land in the country. A failure is seen by society itself, which led the Prime Minister to a reshape literally operetta. The first thing we find is that we are entitled to, when we first asked for the resignation of these particular persons, which the Prime Minister retrospectively came and replaced. We are also entitled, and when we had pointed out from the outset, that civil protection should have an institutional position in the state far above the original one, which, as you remember, was a mere General Secretariat to the Ministry of Civil Protection and then a State Secretary. Now, the fact that a Ministry is now in place leads us to see the bitter vindication of our positions. Of course, it is not enough to appoint an ex-military, however worthy, in this position of the Minister. It is much more complex and complex social or civil protection than a 'decide and order'. It requires a process of prevention, networking, consultation with local communities, non-governmental organisations, an open spirit. It requires, as time requires, networking. It may be that when the fire occurs or in general the crisis is in a state of emergency and there it may be necessary for a man to be determined, but that is not enough. The question is what has happened before. It is precisely this gap that we have seen in these fires that destroyed a million thousand acres. In 2007, your government was talking about the 'greater wind', in 2021 it tells us about climate change. I remember then saying 'climate change or green horses' when you referred with irony to the positions of the PASOK government and George Papandreou personally when they had actually raised the issue of climate change twenty years ago. But climate change is not a local phenomenon. In Spain, for example, the burnt areas in 2021 were close to the four hundred thousand acres, in France just over two hundred thousand, in Portugal under two hundred thousand. Didn't climate change affect them there? If we don't bend too carefully to see the problem, at the level of the fires now, we won't know what's going on. In January I asked Mr Chardalia a question about the North and the snow. Then, trying to answer me, the former Undersecretary gave me plans. He had even brought some volumes, which he shredded them. Snow Plans, floods, fires, lots of people. I told him then that we were full of projects in this place and that the desire to implement the projects, methodical work and follow-up to the action of the administration is what is missing. And unfortunately, I was entitled a little later. Coron has been mentioned in the anti-nuclear areas, and it has been said that we have not opened roads in the forests, and we have said that we have not cleaned up the forests. Indeed, all this has contributed decisively to the extent of the fires. Why? Because the fire basically becomes disastrous when it starts and continues underneath. The fire-fighting means of the government - and it does well in one way - that it has spent too much money to secure them in the country, are far less effective when a fire is erupted by the air forces, but it is not at all effective when a fire occurs in the conditions that have occurred, a heat and in many cases winds. Then it must have cleaned up the woods. At high temperatures, water falling from above evaporates in substance before even reaching the ground. So here seems to be the value of prevention. Another parliamentary question I addressed to Mr Chardalia on 26 May, on the occasion of the fires in the Ghana Mountains. The fire had erupted too early, and I was alarmed by the fact that just last autumn again the Ground Mountains had been burned on the other side. So I've been asking how many miles of anti-nuclear zones have been opened every year in every county of the country for the past twenty years. The question was addressed to many ministries because it had other evidence. I got some fragmentary financial data from the Ministry of the Environment, some incomplete data from the Ministry of Interior. I did not receive a reply and I do not think that the Ministry had any intention of concealing the evidence. It's that we don't have evidence, Mr. Apostleu. As we were saying about reafforestations, unfortunately the undisturbing over many years of the Greek public administration has actually created a situation where we are going to pursue a policy without having any evidence in our hands. Under these conditions policy is impossible. Of course, in addition to the shortages in resources and in methodical work, the prevention of any changes at institutional level too. Since the clearing of responsibilities that resulted in the spring and after the "Medea" the Prime Minister has so far had announcements and greatities. We have not seen any clearing of responsibilities. Of course, the fact that by the legislative act the powers of forestry services are transferred to the Ministry of the Environment and Energy does not tell us anything at all. Real prevention and effective treatment will take place when we have a decentralisation in these responsibilities, of course, with a serious state control, with evaluation and exploitation of all powers. Instead, today the government brings us back short and problematic provisions, provisions away from society, away from those who will be called upon to apply them and away from those who will live their consequences, away from the scientific community, from good practices at international level, away from any serious and methodical consultation and research. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u37	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Mr Stamenitis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u38	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my position on the draft law we are debating today, I would like to stress that there is no Greek and Greek citizen who does not wish to express their warm thanks, appreciation and gratitude to women and men of firefighting, volunteer firefighters and the superhuman efforts they have made in the field of firefighting. We all recognise their titanic struggle to block fires and limit the extent of damage, both in the natural environment and in the settlements. The same is true of the officials of the Hellenic Police, the Port Authority for the successful evacuation of the areas. So, fortunately, we did not mourn victims, achieving the basic and primary objective that was no more than the protection of human life. Unfortunately, we have had a loss for which we all express our deep and sincere condolences to our fellow volunteer firefighters. Ladies and gentlemen, last month our country was severely hit at the same time as hundreds of fires. As the Minister for the Environment and Energy stated in committee, according to data for the first time in August in our country, there were a thousand two hundred and seventy-seven fires. The General Government, Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, the relevant ministers and the relevant government agencies were called upon to manage an extremely difficult situation. The inhabitants of the areas where the phenomena have manifested themselves have been hard to experience and we have all felt the pain that someone feels in the face of a great natural disaster. It is, I believe, a common place that nature's behaviour is not something that we can easily control, and many times it is not certain whether what we have done to deal with it is enough, especially now that the effects of the climate crisis are becoming more noticeable and visible. We know that the policy on the environment and its protection must be at the heart of it, and we must say that the current government has done so in practice, taking important initiatives with the flagrant impulse of this deprivation of the country. However, what is just as important as prevention and preparation is to be able to act immediately for the healing of wounds that leave behind such phenomena. After all, it is the first thing citizens ask of the state, the presence of the state in the difficult situation. I'm sure you can't do much for a protracted heat. But you can quickly and efficiently restore the consequences of a fire caused by bad weather, since you are dealing with the phenomenon itself during its event. And if this in our country was not until the first rule, the Government of the New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis has shown that it can be done. The reflexes shown by this government over the last two years through proper coordination and the right organization prove that the state must and may be next to the citizen, knows how to protect him and make the appropriate decisions to support him wherever and whenever necessary. Today we are called upon to ratify two Acts of Legislative Content to prevent the phenomenon of natural disasters and to deal with the many consequences of the fires in the ecosystems, as well as measures to support our fellow citizens. I, too, refer to some of these regulations which will help prevent, protect and restore the natural environment, such as reducing the time for declining areas to be resurrected from ninety days to thirty days, making forest services subject to the Ministry of the Environment and Energy for more efficient administration, introducing the institution of the reafforestation contractor, in order to enable individuals to participate in reafforestation projects with full transparency and supervision of the State. The opposition disagrees, but they still haven't explained where this disagreement is. To make things quicker? To be able to participate private volunteers in this great effort to restore forest ecosystems? It is also important to regulate the misappropriation of payments by both public and third parties. As far as measures to support affected fellow citizens are concerned, there is provision for the creation of this electronic platform, the one-off exceptional grant for premises for natural or legal persons, the subsidy of businesses and non-profit-making bodies to deal with the damage they have suffered, the granting of one-off financial support for those who have been injured by our fellow citizens. Measures are also being taken to safeguard jobs for the regions belonging to the administrative boundaries of the municipalities affected, while measures are being taken for students belonging to this category. According to what is envisaged in the legislative act and being ratified today, I feel that the opposition is making an extremely great effort to find points to disagree and justify its negative attitude, demonstrating today that its main concern is not to solve problems, to deal with the difficult situations and to support the citizens, but to remain faithful to its sterile and universial opposition attitude to the 'no' at all. We, as the New Democracy, have shown, on the other hand, that, through the governance of the country, our main concern is the fulfilment of our obligations towards the citizens and our obligation to take care for the next day, close wounds, restore the damage quickly, protect and restore the natural environment, take care of the flood protection, and finally stand by those who have been tried and financially support our fellow citizens and local communities that have been affected so that they can soon stand on their feet and make a new start. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u39	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Parliamentary spokesman of the Greek Solution Mr Hetas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Madam President. That's right, you said it about Plearis. It's your opinion, actually. Will you tell SYRIZA anything? Because here it is clear that you are now going hand-to-hand, that you are getting ready. For the choice of Mr Apostolakis, your Minister, who is taking on with Beno - the infiltration of PASOK is a given thing anyway - will you say anything or only a la card cause you to pervert the choices of the government? Because it seems that this reform has taken place together. You have spoken with them, agreed to them, and you are going to have a life-bloomer after all. So you go, slowly, hand - hand with your own people. Everybody in the vagina and move on. Do you have the feeling or the illusion that these Greek people are not seeing them? Mr Brutsis, Parliamentary Representative, you made Mr Apostolakis Minister in New Democracy, the zealer of the Prespecies Agreement! Congratulations to the New Democracy! Look at it just because you don't have members, you only have MPs who stay out of work. You're the one left by your Prime Minister, and he gets executives from PASOK, see Benos, and SYRIZA does his job. Reconstructed with burnt papers can't be done. You cannot mix any party government cards with 'burned cards'. And let me tell you something. Five days ago the Prime Minister came here and said to us: “What a good thing we did. How successful we are in both pandemic and fires." Two ministers have now cleaned up the fire and pandemic. What came to tell us five days ago that you were doing well? Where is the structural reform that the coordinated media told us the other day that they would change and take heads? Two heads were taken from the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Civil Protection. That's what he did. So it's a clear confession of failure. As was burned by Greece, your final state was burned. If you think people don't see these things, you can keep living in your little bubble here and think they're all good and well burned out. This government is not saved by reform, it is saved by demolition, as the Greek Solution rightly said in its communication yesterday. You're being saved by demolition. Get out of here and breathe the country. No remodeling is necessary. Minister, we've completed two years. The House opened up again today and the first bill came. So here we are again two years after you took over the country's rule. What are we talking about here today? Is it not about the progress and development that our country has been living through recent years thanks to the New Democracy, about the recovery of the economy, about the well-being of Greek citizens? Coming over to make a fund, what are we talking about after two years in the first bill? Is it not about how much market indicators have improved, about the competitiveness of Greek products? Are we talking about relaunching the economy? We're not talking about any of this! Two years after becoming government and taking over power what is the work you have done for the state, homeland, for Greek citizens? Tell us here what happened to all those promises and announcements that you have the solution for the problems of the country, that you have the solution for the problems of Greek citizens. He's not saving you anything. No reshape! You're done waiting for your political ending. Reality is tough and we all see it. Minister, we're burned, we're destroyed. Millions of lands were burning for weeks, land destroyed, people lost their home, their livelihood, their jobs. The whole life struggles and labors became ashes and along with them burned your falsifying state. At that time the state had to show, it had to support what it proudly does or can do. But you didn't do anything. In these difficult times as a state, as a government, what did you propose? You proposed the culture of evacuation. "Get out of here." That's the culture of evacuation. And to say things like that, if they weren't the firemen of 1,000 and 900 euros, if they weren't the handlers of the one hand old air means, if they weren't the volunteers, if they weren't the people, but the help they came from the other countries outside, things would be much worse and we all know that very well. You come here for free and fight after you've found it. Don't you see here? You change ministers, one gets one another's, what's nice, what's good, underground deals, underground currents, and you play pool on the people's back and you make underground deals and you go for coexistence, and you tell us about the Eye. Nice dilemma! The Greek people hear what a dilemma they have: either coffins or acres. Or die or burn if I have a New Democracy or a SYRIZA. Isn't the Greek citizen entitled to have another choice? To live, to have a normal life, to have a state that protects him is a right, or is it the dilemma that Mr Mitsotakis set the day before yesterday, or coffins or acres? Nice! The rest burn with the others we have victims. Nice dilemma! Is that the dilemma? And you took the knives out again for the Eye - and good for the Eye - when we, the Greek Solution since July 2020, have tabled a proposal for a committee of inquiry into the tragedy in Matti and which have been island. You don't do anything because you cover them all for the first semester that our economy was destroyed both Matty and everything. Everything's for the eyes of the world. Your cocks in here are fake, fake, fake! No substance! And for those who cheered for the balconies, for those who put their souls, backs, blood, tears, working hours to save the National Health System and Greek citizens, for the health workers you are coming now and with a horrifying decision you are abolishing every sense of equality and democracy. With the suspension of work by tomorrow, thousands of workers, in the very sensitive area of health, are driven to depreciation. There is a great risk that the health system will be broken with incalculable consequences for the Greeks. But for you, there's no problem. You say: 'Help the private sector'. You'll send them there. Business is business. It's a job to do! If the public sector cannot cope, because we will get many people suspended, we will send them to the private sector. No problem for the New Democracy! We know that. In the morning when I was travelling I met with police officers who said to me: "Mr. Heta, ask a question in the House and discuss it, please a lot". Do you know that of the fifty-five thousand police officers 49% - let me do 50% to make it more euphoric - half of them are invasive? What are you gonna do? Are you going to leave the police on parole? Twenty-five thousand policemen are on parole? So is 55% of the fire extinguishers. Do you know that? What are you going to do with them? With the uniforms, what are you going to do? And what will you do with their health caregivers? Are you going to take them out on parole? Do you have the political men to suspend 50% of the police? Do it! You come here and you divide society into vaccinated and unvaccinated and you do what you do and you don't see the big frame. What's the big frame? The frustrating failure of your state of staff by the official figures - because that is the big issue - regarding the Greek economy. There is an economic chaos that bears broadly the stamp and signature of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis. The figures tell the truth - not always, but often they call it - and it's relentless. The central government debt at the end of June was launched at EUR 387.3 billion. Do you understand? In 233,5% of 2020's GDP is expected to go beyond 400 billion and talk about growth and that good days are coming. The debt was set off at 400 billion! The Greeks who now hear us out there and the Greeks owe! I was watching Vassilis Villard's tweet yesterday and I got the evidence to present them. Greeks owe 110 billion to the state, 90 billion interest, fines and charges, 40 billion to the insurance institutions and also owe another 110 billion to red loans. Where are we going? Where are we going with these? And in a year and a half of pandemic, we were charged with another EUR 41 billion that Europe gave us to score for unemployment benefits. Instead of subsidising work, we were subsidising unemployment. That money's gone. Be strong for our children and grandchildren to have money to pay your own sins. In another Chamber of Parliament, here above, the immigration bill is being discussed at this time, as Mr Mitaris calls it. After this, we're going there. I would like to say this: to send Greece a clear message, as Kurts did, the Chancellor of Austria "Neither one" said. Did he say that? He said it. Has someone come out of our government here, the Greek Government, to say that? Not one can stand this place that owes 400 billion, the Greek poor, the unemployed. Not one, not one Afghan or Pakistani or nobody can get in. And we are talking about this in the light of the new crisis that comes from Afghanistan, because we will find these before us. And they don't save you the Communication Shows of the Panagiotopoulos type "I check the fence, whether it moves or not", because when we told you about a wall as a Greek Solution, a couple of years ago we submitted studies here about the wall and you said "A! And what are you talking about? You are provocative, you are enthusiastic, you are extremist." You're copying again, wrongly, you're doing half of it again, you're going to put on wire. At least you did something. Is the Minister going there now and will he see what's going on? It's holding! That's great! That's nice stuff! Well, be careful because Turkey is getting ready. Already the provocative, you informed her that they sent Afghans over that and well Greece opens the borders of August 28-31. And I will close with this, to show you what is happening and how the political forces operate, the serious, who want a solution to issues. There is an outrageous blackmail by the European Union in which Greece has never raised its voice and said 'no'. Never! In all, 'yes'. "Greece accepts raw extortion", writes "SPIEGEL", the German magazine "from the European Commission to open borders for illegal immigrants", illegal immigrants, as you want to tell them. So, by decision of Mrs Johanson, funds are blocking Greece EUR 15.8 million for protecting our borders. So what does she say to us? I heard something about you doing, he says, something pushback and some returns or you don't want to accept people. Oh, if that is the case, the EUR 15.8 million will not give it to you. Never give it up. Come and get those who are here and we don't want any money. What's gonna happen? Will you send us money so we can get us here all over the world? Is this the situation? So what did we do? Because behind all this - and I close, Madam President - the NGOs are hiding. Because we have said a hundred times "close the lots of NGO" that are the carcinoma of this story, but keep them open. If you close the NGO, there will be no money to manage these, which, of course, in fires, earthquakes, in floods destroyed by Greeks, do not appear. There's no bayo, there's no money in there, only with illegal immigrants. Very good. So the answer of the Greek Solution - and I am closing with it - came immediately, because we are moving on to projects, not to words, guard and perfume, through our MEP Manolis Fragou. By letter, therefore, we denounced the provocative interventions of the Commissioner, to whom we stated - our Greek MEP - that, in her attitude, Mrs Johanson has dismissed the moral right to take decisions on the protection of Greece's borders. Greece, we, will decide on our borders. No Europe and no Johanson.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Now Mrs. Kafantari has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u42	Madam President, thank you. A few hours ago a reform was announced by Mr. Mitsotakis. It seems, however, that this reform is not yet over, because recently, in the social media, I read that Mr Apostolakis' Ministership has not been completed so far. We'll see. Irrespective of what I want to say, however, this is a remodelling which, gentlemen of the government, does not save you. It is a reshaping of a weak Prime Minister, a product - if you want - balances, pressures, even from an economic elite - and that was written - and of course also from internal pressures in the New Democracy. Two years with a New Democracy Government and this government's disastrous policy has no end. A climax, of course, was this summer, when the catastrophic effects were very important. Of course, Mr Mitsotakis, the Prime Minister himself, is responsible for all this. A million thousand acres of burning land - and perhaps more than a pandemic, which is hilarious, I would say, an ESA which by the government is systematically being undermined, when public health officials have been supporting this time, a year and a half, the issue of pandemic, and of course you have also applauded them, and now you are putting new measures and suspensions and more, with your deep thoughts and the aim of privatising health. Public health indifference. We have a million acres of burnt, with terrible consequences for our country's environment at the time of climate change, but of course we also have the destruction of local economies. A characteristic example of this is North Evia, which was a model of mild sustainable development, with small and medium-sized businesses, with tourism, with particularly developed the primary sector - the resin collectors and the resin collected in the region represented around 90% of all Greece - while about ten tons of honey, a beekeeping product, produced there, will be missing from the economy. Despite the government's triumphs for the final state, which collapsed - and this summer it collapsed, I would say - despite the triumphs of L.4622 of 19 for the final state that was supposed to coordinate the bodies, government and central government, that there would be coordination and control, it was finally the non-existence of the executive state. Not to say, of course, about the civil protection mechanism, which, under Law No4662 of 20, the government was celebrating that it would resolve all issues compatible with the world situation, that it would deal with crises - whatever crises - we see the results, a multitude of organizational patterns, with interdependent functions and a lack of coordination. A shirt empty this law, 4662 of ‘20. And, of course, it must be said here that the government just passed him, in a month and a half, suspended him and the anti-nuclear period operated by the laws of 2003, the well-known "XENOURATORY". Does that mean progress, Mr. Mitsotakis? Because, indeed, the Prime Minister spoke last week as if it were from another world, from another galaxy, out of reality. He showed that he has no social empathy when he said that we were prepared and, if you want, we did well, that all the measures were taken, successful evacuations and all that he mentioned. But his Undersecretaries were saying about the number of air means. Let him at least read the minutes and see what one State Secretary and the other State Secretary says, respectively. Mr. Mitsotakis said that everything was done well, successful evacuations, cleansing in the Hippocrates State and Tatoi, which were immediately burned after the announcement of the well-known Dryades project. He talked about reafforestation contractors, that there will be insurance obviously by private companies and, of course, he did not forget to hide behind climate change once again. At the same time, of course, the anti-environmental laws of Mr Hatzidakis that allow and within protected areas, if you like, professional activities and heavy goods, I would say that the NATURA regime is well known and what really applies at pan-European level - business activities which are not related to nature protection. Of course, the removal of the two Ministers from the Ministry of Civil Protection and the move of the State Secretary for Civil Protection to another Ministry is an indirect recognition, in fact, that things have not been done well, no matter what Mr Mitsotakis says. I cannot, of course, leave anything more than that which, ladies and gentlemen, I consider to be dangerous. The Prime Minister was posted last week and told Athens National Observatory to go to Civil Protection. A research institution that has more than a century of history, with a significant contribution to our country's scientific world and scientific events to go to Civil Protection. The National Observatory mocked Mr. Mitsotakis' make-up, telling the scientific truth, as science officials do, and because we cannot control it, we are trying to manipulate it. If it goes ahead, I think that this is a very important blow to both research and science and we are not talking about it for the government. So our Green Prime Minister is preparing us in three days to go to Marseille, to the regional conference on the conservation of the Mediterranean organized by the International Nature Protection Union. He'll talk about biodiversity, about the protection of the Mediterranean. What will he say with its back of 1.3 million acres burned and, of course, without the Greek Parliament having ratified - we have asked questions - many Barcelona protocols? The responsibilities are therefore enormous. You will be judged as you have now been judged by the lack of prevention policies, because that was completely absent in your policies and proves the result. You will, of course, be judged, on the way from now on, on the restoration, in the anti-military projects to be carried out, on the recovery plans for the regions affected, first and foremost, I would say in northern Evia - for reasons I said before - but also in Arcadia, Elias, Laconia, Messinia and Attica. There, however, the participation of local communities must be important. It cannot be restored with a specific shape of forests, with surnamed expertise. It also needs expertise, of course, but local society through forest cooperatives and their institutions must have an important say, the Constitution must be complied with, and Article 24 and Article 117 must be observed. It cannot be that the country does not have forest maps, it cannot be that the public does not have control and reason and overseeing in all these correction procedures. Indeed, an economic recovery plan for the regions affected, which will always have as its focus human, residents, workers and the environment. We must do everything and if you do not - I'm afraid of that, I can say - another government of democratic, progressive will also assume this responsibility, as has been used to the difficult task of taking responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, my colleague. Mr Papadimitriou has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u44	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that I would expect at least today in the case of fires to see that even in the way that can be done, as our parliamentary democracy works, what the Chief of Staff has asked a few days ago - because there is a part with which I disagree and explain it - that we need to find people who have demonstrated something in common, at least it would support it. And he took the opportunity, didn't take a quarter - maybe a little longer to make some telephone conversations with people whose opinion takes it seriously into consideration or at least had taken it seriously into consideration in January 2019 - to inspire one of the people who was invited to help. If you are aware of your involvement in political and parliamentary conflicts in this way, then we should know it beforehand so that we know how we are going to speak in here. If you understand it differently, and when there is something that affects all and all of us you really want to contribute, then say it and not swear, because the curse has replaced the arguments. Of course, there is also the other side, the side of Mr Tsakalotou, who was touching. You were moved, dear colleague, because Death Plearis had said something.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u45	Something? Something?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u46	Something. And I insist on that, because you are systematically making out the most Stalinist way out of content and out of context what everyone says. And you say to him 'Come here and apologize'. In 1932 you'd be doing another job.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u47	You say that?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u48	Thanos Pilaris has systematically supported these whole time positions that have been promoted - and that is what is bothering you - in the field of health. He was ready to go there and he went and we obviously support him completely. So what you're referring to is also wrong, because what will happen with the people who need it is the law. The international conventions, of which the law we observe here, are also defined. And in any case, there is a government policy. Whatever everyone believes when they are called to take over this job, they do what they have to do as government. After all, I think that you first proved this because while you were Minister of Finance you did nothing of what you believe and remembered it after you stopped it. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] The other strange thing is that we are talking about disasters and Mr Tsipras comes and moves us to the Goldam report and - it will not be the first time, of course - I doubt he has looked at it. I doubt whether he read it because this report was a guide to the AEGEAN programme, which is now being put into even greater force. Unfortunately, my lack of knowledge as we were delayed. Many things had to have become faster, but the pandemic played its part. I am not saying this to justify either myself or the majority or obviously the government. The responsibilities take on one and the other here, as you know, and as you see it. However, when it writes on page 71 "Generally the contribution of aircraft to the forest fire extinguisher in view of the related costs can be considered overrated", you should be a little more restrained when you put your bromotrols on the Prime Minister, because he said something that you are all saying. We were out here in the hallways. We were all talking about it. Because we all want the moment of the fire above us the helicopter and next to us the fireman. That's what it's supposed to be. I wish it were. The Prime Minister, however, came to speak with one, I would say, attachment and honesty. If this no longer describes you as what to say. What can I say? The concept of dialogue is literally spoiled. There are many points in the Goltnamer report which I could tell you and show you that you have not read it. The simplest thing is that you did not see to it that it was implemented. Even though there are people among you who know them and believe them, you didn't give them a voice. You cared and you still care about the party, the close agenda. And that's what, unfortunately, will take us down. Because Evia is my second homeland, I've spent too much time there for the past twenty years and I love her very much and I've run into too many fires and, literally, I'm sad at what happened. I would like to tell you that what happened is not just the woods, and I do not agree with the fact that the forests are becoming again. The same forest can't happen again, because the forest has it inside of us, it's a homeland mental. But what has happened in Evia is a crime - and there is no less responsibility to which I belong today - is that Evia was abandoned to a very large extent. What Gondamer says that when people leave, when the activities are gone, when parties in which Evia gives almost monographs, but also other parties that have huge support in Evia, do not take care of Evia at some point, the disaster will take place or if we say so better it will take huge proportions. However, I want to tell you that again well, I thought it was a very great disaster, apparently it's a little less than the very big one. But when this happens next to Athens in Barumbas near Agios Stephano this is what a chill should cause us, as to whether we have a real state in the way we want it. But why does Mr Chakalotos insist on being opposed to anything that concerns private initiative? You spent almost all of your speech accusing individuals. I insist on and will come to discuss this soon, thankfully, the Prime Minister puts it on the agenda, that the existence of insurance for property, housing against risks is a transfer of responsibilities and burdens to the private capital you say, what I say to the organisation of our society the right thing, as is happening everywhere in the world, and that this brings out some of the burden of the state so that it can finally put all its weight on where it really has to put it, in prevention and firefighting. But you must finally take part in what is called modern society and today's world, and that is why you must embrace the value of what the government will shortly recommend here that we participate with all our means in personal and collective security. Obviously, this will be done with appropriate tax relief so that something and the citizens can start to get easier when they take measures to help themselves together, because this can happen and this is better the private initiative. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u49	We shall now give the floor to Mrs Adamopoulou's parliamentary representative. We shall then give the floor to Mr Katsotis, Mr Zempilis, and then to the Parliamentary Representative of KINAL, Mr Katrin. Here, Mrs Adamopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u50	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, I would like to comment on the reshaping. This is only a radical and structural reshaping of the deck. We have not seen any substantial changes. And, of course, Mr. Chrysochoidis is gone, Mr. Plearis is here. Here we are, we will see how much more polarization is going to grow, how much more doubling is going to increase. Mr Plouris' choice in the very central area of health is only not random. And, of course, they are choices that satisfy all the systems and wings of the New Democracy. I now move on to the debate. I have the impression that with today's debate the government wants to close the cycle of political controversy in relation to the catastrophic fires that we have experienced throughout the summer. Does he want, in short, to get rid of the responsibilities of the criminals burdening it, to come to the House with the Prime Minister and with a courage literally trying to turn the white into many parts of his speech into black with the synergy of all the established media, which after having taken care of what they are doing now? They have swept through a general pilgrimage on mandate at all times and at the suggestion of the various factors of the government that New Democracy is more important than our country and our country. This, of course, is not a new tactic for the government. In the twenty-five months, in her almost two years of government, we see that she has set the plan to salt the state, deliver it north to the mountainous mountainous interests of remultaneous and interlocutory. We see that, with its legislative, reactionary initiatives expressing extreme ideological nuisances, it has caused incalculable catastrophe in all areas of social action. Where we return and where we look at health, education, justice, energy, business, rights, individual freedoms, local government what we see is a lasting deterioration. It seems, then, that the term 'burned land' was not enough for the government as a mere figure for its legislative initiatives and its administrative work and we come to today after a summer, which was the delusion literally, with more than a million trillion acres of burning land, with people who have lost their livelihood, their homes, their work, they have no hope, they are literally in despair. We are coming to today with a shameful management of the fire by the government. Of course, all these disasters, all these damages to be restored, should pay generations of entire debts which will be charged to their backs to increase public and private debt. We come to today with a final state, which you are not only finally saying, you are doing so in the various private interests, because it has proved to be non-existent coordination, zero-efficiency and a Prime Minister both at the press conference he gave and in plenary, but also in general in relation to the management of the fire to prove that it is inferior to the circumstances and the apologies he gave are not honest in plenary, to be protagonist in comparison with the rest of his speech. Before I refer to what he said, I should like to quote as an image of the government's management of communication that on 3 August, while the country burned the state channel, ERT, which is supposed to be the civil channel, but rather it turns out that it is a channel of the respective residents of Maximos, dedicated a rich report on the fires that had broken out in Turkey to underpin the irresponsibility of the Erdogan government. After a few days, and while the Erdogan government had managed to face fires and all the fireheads, it also sent planes to Greece to help suppress the fires. In this way, therefore, the government gave Erdogan a fine diplomatic chapter, which will save it, will use it in the near future to show that he is the one who showed a humanitarian person to Greece with a Greek incompetent government. So it gave the right at such a critical time to our national issues in a country like Turkey to say outwardly that we owe it a favour. And, of course, at the top of this whole situation and the incompetence is the Prime Minister, who - I repeat - said an apology pretext, but if we restrain some of his words like that we were better prepared than ever - the points he was saying - show me what was wrong with Villia, that he came to the point even to squash the pistols and hearing that it is not possible for people to want from a village above their heads and from an airplane. Noteworthy himself to go see a performance of Lignade in Epidaurus uses a military helicopter. The point is, the residents themselves, because here we have to focus, they went out on the channels, they denounced the frustration of the state mechanism. At the same time, of course, the disinformation notes cut them off so they wouldn't go any further. "Only we're trying" they said in a live connection. So the question is where is the government's apologies. It is a fundamental act that Mr Chrysochide has left. I would, however, like to focus on a few things that you have said your own officials, experts such as the former Deputy Chief of the Fire Force, who until March last year won you on several occasions, Mr Gurbatsis, who is a specialist and judiciary expert, and who said the fire of Barbados: 'By seeing the fire on her start I found that at first she had no big front. At that time, however, I did not see them rushing in, from the very beginning that the means had to be intervened, since the fire-fighting forces could not approach the point because they were solid forests." It should be noted, of course, that the forest service, which is the only one responsible for knowing exactly the forest area and mapping the forest roads and the forest area, has been degraded by the government of Mr Simitis in 1998 and no government has upgraded its role. He says, therefore, Mr Gurbatsis: "If they were to monitor two airborne instruments, as foreseen by the operational planning and as required, when there is a hazard category 4, they could approach within 10 minutes and attempt, even if they were in the most remote location of Attica. That's not what I saw. If they attempted the necessary air means at the start, they would face it. They were delayed and then the fire had already taken dimensions, so it was hard to control." The fire plan for Attica predicts that if there is a forest fire in an open space, it will automatically be directed to a residential area. So the forces, according to the design and the direction of the wind, had to approach Varybobe, the settlement directed by the fire. It didn't seem like that because we saw that he got into the barumbas and burned houses. Logic, because the evacuation order was being given everywhere. And where the inhabitants finally did not obey, they succeeded themselves and protected their homes. A fire in Evia. They did not go in time with the launch of the necessary air means to deal with it. In a reversal of his speech, the Prime Minister, at a press conference and in plenary, said that air means were flying over Evia, but they did not find - he says - open up through smoke to throw water. Logic, why you didn't send the air means in time before the smoke covered all the atmosphere and there is no visibility. Also, though he said that air means are not panacea, this year was more than every year, when Mayor Mandudi himself disproves him and says that there were fifty - two air inside, while there should be one hundred eighty to two hundred twenty. Nevertheless, he announced he would buy. The thing is, where's he gonna buy what he's gonna do with it? Because all governments were buying, but the point is, they let them rot unexploited, unconscious and there were no operators, people trained to handle them. Asked where the refreshments are attributed, such as the one we had in Varube, Mr Gurbatsi's answer was a real trick: "Breaking fire means operational and criminal error. It appears that the person responsible for monitoring the region has underestimated it." It was also asked about another "caramella", that fires were unprecedented in number. He said: "I heard Mr. Chardalia in a statement saying on the day the fire started in Barumbas that we had a hundred and eighteen fires on the ground. This figure is a great one, it is above the average for the anti-nuclear period, which is sixty fires, but it cannot be compared with other years when we had a hundred seventy fires in 2001 in just one day and another hundred forty-five and in 2007 in one hundred and twenty-four. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, with your permission I shall also use my dentistry. As far as the fire in Vilia is concerned, I will testify in the Minutes: “The flames of allegiance have been destroyed. Volunteers of residents and firemen, Greeks and Europeans together, were trying to build last-minute anti-nuclear zones to save the settlement." The Vice-President of Attica, Mr. Kokalis, said that the fire would stop when there was nothing else to burn apparently. For mismanagement of the fire in Bilia and excessive evacuation of settlements, the former Western Attica Forest Director Mr. Spath said: "The direction given to evacuate settlements because we had Eye is wrong. If you evacuate the settlement, it means you deliver it to burn it. You guard the settlement and you burn the forest." It also pointed out that the burning area has a densely populated network of forest roads which were not supported because the forestry service did not have one euro for maintenance. It leaves peaks for the non-intrusion of fire-fighting vehicles on forest roads. Finally, they were volunteers, young people, who tried three days on the front line sleepless and the residents themselves. The Prime Minister said - and I would like to focus a little on this - that we should pay attention to the fact that human lives have been saved. This is very important, that we did not lose. We lost a volunteer. But this so-called human-centered approach should cease to be this communication account, because it should understand that there are cultural and social meanings that bears a home. A house isn't just a physical construction, it's a memory place, it's a symbol of identity, and if the houses are rebuilt so easily, it'll make it pay compensation that corresponds to the rebuilding of these houses, not the crumbs that we see as giving right now. Fire in Olympia: "So we have saved our village, unfortunately we have learned not to wait from the state." People, from their previous experience, are equipped in the rural cars with water tanks, tractors. They really describe how they managed with the plastic tanks to save what they saved, because there is state indifference and lack. For the fire in Belia, they have said that the Board of Directors of the San Nektario Community had written notice of the risk of disaster in the event of fire, asked for aid with three firearms, which was never implemented. And the Prime Minister's question is: 'Tell us what we did wrong'. On the question of prevention, the former Deputy Chief of Firefighting spoke to us. ‘The General Secretariat for Civil Protection shall issue in accordance with the plan ‘XENCRATES’. The General Plan for the Management of Forestry under the code name "NOLAOS" was published in December 1919, which has been valid until now. It is a project aimed at all ministries, all institutions. According to this plan, at prevention level municipalities and regions are obliged, at the beginning of the anti-missile period, to clean their sites of responsibility. We saw with Matty that three mayors were indicted because they hadn't cleaned up in the area. This year, the General Secretariat for Civil Protection adopts, with the beginning of the anti-missile period, a decision that says that eighteen areas in Attica and others, such as Sheikh Sou and Olympia, are declared in an emergency to clean up their areas of responsibility, given that in February we had the extreme weather phenomenon, the "Medea". With this decision the General Secretariat for Civil Protection runs counter to itself, on the one hand it takes off the "IOLAO", which says that "on 31 April you must all be ready" and on the other hand it comes and says that for these eighteen regions, because they have not been able to do so, we give them a month's sake. And in the Municipality of Dionysus the deadline ended and they were extended for another month, until August 17, if I remember correctly. And finally, another eminent neo-democrat, is a well-known friend of Mr.Mitsotakis' family, Mr. Katsouda, said: "The compensation for homes, for animals, for lost jobs, for businesses and for businesses, is falling like the rain of billions of a doomed state. These are in addition to the billions that we have given for smuggling with dozens of aircraft and helicopters and the huge expenditure to be incurred to avoid flooding and reafforestation." In 1/20, at least half the disasters would have been avoided. Now, two years later, steps are being taken to revive the Forest Service. And while your own executives come and set you up on the wall, the Government spokesman makes this statement: "We understand that they were served on a number of critical issues in the past and have created very high expectations and we would all wish that we would not have the losses we have from the fires." That is precisely because you are a competent government has been burned by half of Greece. If you were less qualified with the highest expectations we have, you would have done all of Greece. It's outrageous what we hear! The only expectation that the people now have of you is for the unprecedented political and operational dissent that you have shown in the fires, but also for two years now, the sale of the country itself that runs through us internationally. Because the Romanians who helped with an extremely effective project, the head of which said this on a Romanian channel, of course, to Greece, were not transmitted: "But we saw the fire. It was like someone didn't want to erase it. The fire could have been erased from the first day. I don't want to say anything more. We, when our mission is finished, will submit our report to the European Agency for NATURA and to the UN, because the region has been designated as NATURA for years and we have also learned more. No prevention, no anti-nuclear zones should exist in this region.' So when we have been asking the government for months to channel funds for fire-fighting to create fire-fighting areas, what have you been doing? You share the millions in your channels and friends of industrialists with direct assignments. The Prime Minister spoke of a reversal of his speech on prevention, cleansing and forest management, despite the fact that only EUR 51 million were given to prevention and EUR 1.7 billion to repression. Nearly nothing told us, neither for anti-corrosion and flooding works, nor for mountain water reorganisation works, nor for cleaning by the burnt biomass, nor for 24-hour jailers' recruitment, nor for the very crucial issue that many firefighters have identified and which has even been identified by Cyprus - there is a publication - of the technical counter-process, which has not even been legally established. It mentions the dystopian bureaucracy that exists in this area which prevents forest fires from being used as a means of combating fire precisely because it has not been legally introduced. I shall table this as well with the rest in the Minutes. He said nothing about the direct and adequate staffing of the Forest Service with the scientific staff required to finance forest management, the certificate of building resilience, to support and maintain the traditional land use. He said that forests would not mostly be resurrected in a natural way but artificially, with the national godfathers of reafforestation that will come to prepare the ground for the extra wind turbines that will come. Because he said they'd coexist with the wind turbines. He did not say about the early detection of firearms by firearms and mixed patrols, nor about the early detection, mapping of hazardous areas, the general upgrading of the Forest Service, nor, of course, about the education of citizens.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u51	Mrs Adamopoulou, I would like to inform you that you will soon be completing the time of your tritology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u52	I'll be done in a minute. Thank you, Mr President. And, of course, the crescendo - conspiracy - I will say - of the Prime Minister was when, in a question asked by Mr Varoufakis, the Secretary General of Mera25, because he did not accept Mera25's amendment to ban the use of land for the next thirty years in the forests, the answer was why - he says - we will press on to those who do not want wind turbines to start setting fires, while with artificial reforestations that will not happen. From the contact we have had with citizens and with collectives both in Evia and in the other burnt areas, what we have gained is the following. First of all, there is a plan to privatise forests, exploit forests, because the government acts as the agent of private and foreign interests. There has been an agreement with Mrs Merkel on wind parks that will actually be transported, migrated from Germany to Greece. They're talking about a privatisation plan presented by Prime Minister and the Retino-Agriculture Association, Evia, denounces that they have been approached by specific government actors and they are trying to entice them that the company "TERNA" will be a benefactor, because it will also give work to the firefighters, while ensuring that this company has made illegal redundancies of workers after disposing of them to other projects. And, of course, they are denounced - to speak only of this government - the indifference of all governments in the field of prevention by anti-nuclear, anti-corrosion and flooding, even in areas that had been affected in previous years. After all this - and I am ending with it - in conjunction with what your officials and the Prime Minister have said, we conclude that you are the government of falsehood, analgesia. You are a government which mocks the institutions, which actually wants to give a burnt country the entrepreneurs of false investment and fake development, because of course ruthless economicism must privatise them all. The Prime Minister will hand over de facto the country, the burnt land to the national godfathers. Every minute, then, that you remain in power - and no reshaping saves you - it is a delicate disaster for our country. Greek and Greek women, including your voters - because I happen to speak with your voters too - want you to leave an hour ago. They're begging you to leave. The sooner the better for the country itself. As MERA25, we say no wind turbines on the land, a ban on changing use for the next few years, outside the oligarchs from the forests, natural reafforestation. Let the earth look for himself. She's got her own treatment mechanisms. Stop rapeing her! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u53	We will now give the floor to Mr Katsotis and then the Minister for Finance, Mr Staikoras, will take the floor for the amendment he has tabled to the bill. Mr Kattotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr President. The results of the anti-nuclear period are very heavy. The assurances of readiness proved to be air words. There were ashes of a million three thousand acres in Evia, Attica, Elias, with damaged retail properties, jobs and income. It is a huge disaster and the measures of the legislative act do not correspond to the losses, they do not correspond to what those affected themselves claim. This disaster has a responsibility and cause. All governments are responsible and the cause is capitalist profit. This disaster is the result of criminal government policy by all governments, New Democracy, SYRIZA, PASOK - KINAL. It is proof that the system you are serving has as an incentive to the Groups' profits and, in order to serve, the people's incomes are collected. Everything will be turned into a merchandise. This policy, objectively, cannot protect forests unless their exploitation makes profits. The Government of New Democracy - like the previous ones - has now attempted to hide behind extreme weather phenomena, climate change. The very serious debate on the so-called climate crisis cannot be held either a refuge for the government or an alibi to justify when Matty and never Evia, when Mandra and never Karditsa. It is the heat that is to blame for a lot, but it is not because the Fire Corps suffers from chronic suffocation, old personnel, or because there is no integrated forest protection plan focusing on prevention. The winds are not responsible for the fact that the state over time is underfunding forest protection, it is undermining forest fires in every way. Even the pine trees have been baptized guiltyly during this period, as if the pine trees decided to give 6 billion euros to NATO this year, while only 30,000 euros were given to open forests in Attica. No, the government is not incompetent, as they say. Her policy is criminal. We do not say that there is no state, as others say. The state that has given 1.7 million to the forests since the 17.7 million they have asked for this year is the same state that has warmly made 2.5 billion more for naval armaments with the votes of both the New Democracy Government and SYRIZA and KINAL. The state that did not have the means for the suppression of fires is the same state that fade to it - erases thousands of policemen on the streets when it has to suppress popular protests, is the same state that has been ready for some time, with an already adopted legislative framework from the current and previous governments, delivers natural wealth to business interests. The only news was "112, but in practice it meant "you run my legs and let it all burn." Even the tool of evacuation had not been tested before, nor, of course, was it part of a comprehensive natural disaster management plan. What we have been through was another translated proof that today's state is hostile to the people's needs. In 2021, when some make their countryside, some detonate fires, Minister. The Government of New Democracy, as before SYRIZA, has the same "green" transition strategy. Its characteristic is the commercialisation of land, forests and spatial planning based on profit. Thus, the mixed flammable areas of settlements within forests were created as a result of the commercialisation of the people's right to first and holiday home with no conditions and conditions. The forests have been abandoned. This is how the attitude towards integrated forest management and protection is implemented. There is no anti-nuclear design, because it has no profit for monopolies. Change of use or declassification of the forest for wind turbines, industries, logistics, villas, tourist businesses, private building and protected areas. It is a burden on repression and not, as it should be, on the prevention and organisation of the ground forces. You display air means as the main means of extinguishation, whereas it is known worldwide and especially to experts, that air means only help in suppression. Fires can erase specialized ground forces within the forest within a modern anti-nuclear design, mainly in prevention and training for the first insult under integrated management. With the assistance of the media, deceivers are being created in the world, that supposedly since the planes were unable to do something, nothing is being done. The same media, of course, supports and promotes anti-industrial, anti-environmental, inhuman policy and cost-benefit concepts. A legal framework has been established which allows, for example, the development of wind turbines, tourist, industrial and all business activities within the forests. The abandoned forests, businesses and settlements in the forests, abandoned villages, personnel licenses, facilities and infrastructures are the flammable matter. The concept of forest trade, cost and benefit, is the arsonist after all. In these circumstances of destruction - particularly in Evia - an unprecedented popular solidarity and self-energy was expressed that mocked the state mechanism. As a JRC, we express our solidarity with the affected. We call on them to take the case of compensation from disasters and forest protection at their hands, to claim immediate and 100% compensation without conditions and conditions and for as long as the consequences of disasters apply. And it's gonna be a long time! We also call on the people through fight committees to strengthen solidarity with those in need, to demand support for the affected, to claim integrated management and protection of forests, modern anti-nuclear design, mainly the prevention and organisation of ground forces, to be prepared and vigilant everywhere, to demand the necessary flooding measures. We are all addressing the working class and the people's forces, and we call on them not to show any confidence in the government whose policy breaks all of the working people's rights. The real rival is the bourgeoisie, its state, its governments responsible for the fact that the people are burning, when they drown, and while they produce intact wealth, live permanently in the working ages of the middle ages, poverty, uncertainty, deprivation and impoverishment. With this barbaric system it needs to be cleared up to pave the way for labour power, the socialism that the main law will be to satisfy the needs of the people. In this perspective, the majority of the people suffering from the balance of capital can meet. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u55	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Standing Committee on Social Affairs is tabling its report on the draft law of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs: 'Security reform for New Generation: introducing a capitalisation system for predefined contributions to subsidiary insurance, establishing, organising and operating an Auxiliary Capital Insurance Fund and related provisions'. Mr Stagioras has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u56	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, since the first moment as a government and as a Ministry of Finance, we have given priority to direct and brave support to those affected by the last catastrophic fires at the same time with a view to the rapid and effective reconstruction of the regions. In this context, we have triggered the procedures for the immediate promotion of state aid measures to natural and legal persons for the restoration of dwellings, businesses and farms, many of which are included in the draft law under ratification, a draft law extending the scope - and I would like to insist on that, is Article 3 - in the context of the equal treatment of the areas affected by the fires from 1 May to the date of publication of the law. Therefore, we also have an extension for other natural disasters that occurred before or after the contested period and the specific geographical areas. In particular, as regards the Ministry of Finance - because the draft law has other provisions - the following interventions are implemented: Firstly, the submission of a supplementary budget. In the amendment tabled, a supplementary budget is passed increasing the appropriations for the ordinary budget by EUR 150 million and the Public Investment Programme by EUR 350 million. Total EUR 500 million. The methodical and responsible management of the public finances of the country and of that fund makes it possible to draw up and implement a supplementary budget with a view to creating the necessary financial area to finance assistance for the restoration of forests, settlements and related infrastructure affected by fires and to implement immediately the aid measures for the affected areas, households and businesses. Secondly, the creation of an electronic platform for state aid. On 18 August, with the contribution of the Independent Public Revenue Authority, the online platform for direct compensation and support for households, businesses and property owners affected by the fires was launched. In particular, our fellow citizens affected by the fires have and will have the possibility for the next few weeks for the first time with a simple request, which is responsible for a declaration, to request exceptional one-off financial assistance as first aid from the Ministry of Finance, as well as exemption from HISA. You know, of course, that we are looking very carefully for responsible statements and we have a first assessment of specific geographical areas in the country. Third, one-off exceptional financial aid for housing assistance for buildings and dwellings of natural or legal persons. Up to now 8.9m euros have been paid in a thousand fifty-five per beneficiary of state aid as a housing aid advance. Today, in a few hours, additional EUR 1.2 million will be deposited in two hundred eighty-three beneficiaries. The amount of aid for housing aid depending on damages to premises, professional facilities, housing and other non-professional buildings affected shall be fixed from 3 000 to 14 000. Fourth, one-off exceptional financial assistance of natural persons for construction compensation. To date, 3.6 million euros have been paid in a thousand percent eighty-eighty state aid beneficiaries as construction compensation. Today, a further 464,000 will be paid to two additional two beneficiaries. The amount of aid for the construction of a building, depending on the damages suffered by the dwelling, varies from 2 000 to 6 000. Fifth, one-off exceptional financial assistance to firms against a grant for damages. The subsidy covers part of the estimated injury and includes material damage to mechanical equipment, raw materials, goods, means of production and damaged vehicles of the undertaking. The same framework includes farms and livestock units. Up to now EUR 4.2 million has been paid in a thousand six hundred seventy-seven a beneficiary of state aid as an advance grant to businesses. Today, another 761,000 will be paid in three hundred and fifty and eight additional VAT. The amount of aid, depending on the size of the damage, varies from EUR 2 000 to EUR 8 000 for farms without a facility of EUR 1 000 to EUR 4 000. Overall, in order to have an image, in less than ten days, some 20 million euros will have been disbursed to three thousand, seven hundred and thirty-six single VAT. That's never happened before. Sixth, provision of tax-free and incompatible aid to the affected. Aid to natural or legal persons affected shall be tax-free, unpaid and unpaid in the hands of the general public and third parties, shall not be subject to any reservation, fee or levy, shall not be bound and shall not be offset by any certified debt to the tax administration and the general public or credit institutions. Seventh, discharge from the ENPIA. Real estate buildings, plots, plots that have been proven to be destroyed or have suffered operating losses that render them dangerous or unsuitable for use shall be exempted from ENVIRONMENT 2021, 2022 and 2023. I mean, they've been exempted for three years. To date, our compatriots' requests have been approaching or exceeding four and a half thousand. Eighth, suspension of tax obligations. The natural and legal persons affected and beneficiaries of the housing assistance and/or grant measures for enterprises shall suspend payment of all outstanding accredited and due tax liabilities for six months. In order to inform you, 15 relevant decisions of the relevant Secretary of State for Finance have already been signed so far. Ninth, suspension of insurance contributions. Accordingly, by a decision of the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, the insurance contributions of the firms affected and the trade unions have been suspended for six months. Tenth, suspension of credit obligations. In cooperation with the Hellenic Banking Union, credit institutions shall suspend payment of any form of information obligations for the natural and legal persons affected and beneficiaries of the housing assistance measures or of the company's grant. On this basis, at the initiative of the Ministry of Development and Investment, the loans granted through the Guarantee Programme and TPIX II of the Greek Development Bank are included. Eleventh, exemption for affected enterprises, including agricultural holdings, of the repayable part of the repayable advance. Fired undertakings which have been completely destroyed or have suffered losses which render them incomplete shall be exempt from the repayment of the authorised portion of the repayable advance. The exemption shall be granted by means of a certificate, after, of course, the examination of the damage by the regional committees. Twelfth, rental subsidy. By joint decision of the Ministers for Finance, Development and Investment and Infrastructure and, following the demarcation of the affected areas, a rental subsidy is granted to cover the costs of temporary housing of residents affected by the fires. Third, additional support measures for households and businesses located in the two specific municipalities of Northern Evia, Evia Regional Unit. Measures to suspend tax obligations, suspend insurance obligations, suspend credit obligations, suspend enforcement and non-payment of a repayable advance shall apply to all natural and legal persons in the two specific municipalities affected by the Evia Regional Unit, irrespective of whether they have suffered individual damage to the fire. In addition, especially for 2021, the total immovable property situated in these two affected municipalities is exempted from HNVY. Finally, fourteenth, the establishment of a State aid account for the collection of contributions by individuals wishing to support the affected. By the day before yesterday, 5.3m euros were deposited by the three hundred and sixty natural and legal persons who wished to contribute and apparently there will be communications from the government on where these sums are to be made. In line with the relevant account opened to deal with the health crisis, the resources of the collected account will be deposited in order for the country to have ten more ambulances, evenly distributed to the regional units, in the country's Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the rapid compensation for households and businesses affected by the fires, the government has already launched medium-term measures to strengthen the political protection and restoration of the country's natural wealth. For this purpose, the resources of the Recovery and Resilience and Resilience Fund and the NSRF have been provided for the use of EUR 16 billion by 2027, of which EUR 10,5 billion from the Recovery and Resilience Fund for the ‘green transition’ and EUR 5,5 billion from the NSRF as an adaptation to climate change. In this context, for example, three reform initiatives are directly implemented. First, the National Civil Protection Programme “AUGIS”. Following the signing on 28 January 2021 - I repeat, on 28 January 2021 - of the relevant financing agreement by the European Investment Bank was approved in June 2021 by the Interministerial Committee on National Policy Planning, the largest time-limit for upgrading civil protection. Details of this were given by the Plenary Prime Minister last week. Secondly, the National Plan for Reafforestation and Implementation of Anti-Military Works: 224m euros have been originally planned for reafforestation. The project aims at restoring burnt areas but also at the qualitative diversification of new, refreshed areas, with new varieties that are more durable, especially in summer fires. In addition, EUR 110 million have been envisaged for multi-purpose investments aimed at limiting flood risks, providing water for irrigation purposes in areas with high drought during the summer period and strengthening the effective management of water. In addition, EUR 100 million are envisaged for biodiversity protection actions. At the same time, additional measures for biodiversity amounting to EUR 1.5 billion are being launched through the ESRB, including reafforestations. Third, green bond issue. The Ministry of Finance, in cooperation with the Greek Treasury Management Agency, immediately after the completion of the most part of the loan and management programme for the current year - today the country regains its markets - launched an investigation in accordance with the initial design since the beginning of June 2021 on the creation of a framework for the issue of Greek state debt securities, whose credit income will be used for projects, actions and programmes of the Greek State, with the exclusive orientation of green and sustainable economic development. According to the design, the first issue of a new, such a medium-term state title will be part of the Greek State's editorial strategy for 2022. Ladies and gentlemen, in the last two years the government and the Ministry of Finance have managed multiple crises, the unprecedented health crisis, major natural disasters, national challenges and migratory pressures. We found the resources, we acted in time, we compensated, and we directly compensated our compatriots, we built and built a protection and security net above households and businesses, we strengthened the national defence, we strengthen the power of the country. At the same speed and commitment to the objective, with modesty and respect for every citizen, we are now acting in response to the new challenge and the needs of our compatriots. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u57	We will now continue with the list of speakers and invite Mr Athanasios Zebble from New Democracy to Step. Mr Katrinis, Parliamentary spokesman for the Change Movement, and then Mr Kalamatianos and Mrs Alexopoulou, who will complete the second circle of speakers, will follow. Mr. Zebble, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it would not make any sense and above all it would not help to restructure the affected areas to repeat the debate that took place here today at the level of the Heads of Parliament. Unfortunately, however, I note that some, instead of seeing the next day, are trying to do this, a peculiar one in relation to the special sitting in this House, and that of course confirms the rule that you always ask for the one who has been defeated. However, the resumption of such a debate is certain that it does not help the reconstruction effort that Northern Evia and other parts of the country need today. On the other hand, we have to adopt the slogan in the campaign to raise awareness among the citizens of the Municipality of Mandudi - Lake - Agia Anna, which is "Together we will succeed." Because what is important is the concentration and mobilisation of all forces. On this occasion, I thank the volunteers and all those who participated in this shocking and unprecedented wave of solidarity with the wounded in Greece and abroad. It is a well-known fact that the fountain has burned not only one third of the Evia forests, but it has destroyed the lives of thousands of biopoplastics. For the Northern Evia forest gave life to resin farmers, beekeepers, loggers, forest workers, gave life to farmers, farmers and professionals of focus and tourism. Direct or indirect life and activity of more than thirty thousand inhabitants was closely intertwined with this beautiful forest. That was the wealth that kept youth in its place, in remote but live and productive villages. So in this case we have the complete dismantling of the social and productive fabric of a dynamically developed area. This alone demonstrates the difficulties of managing the consequences of the disaster but also the size of the project. It is true that the government has responded to this great challenge with sufficient authority, and at the very first time it stood alongside the people affected. In a rapid reflex, it simplified and digitised the procedures and promoted a comprehensive set of first measures for the relief of the affected, which our rapporteur and, of course, the Minister for Finance has just developed. For my part, I would like to highlight the flexibility with which the state compensation and first aid mechanism operate, so that people can stand on their feet. There is no doubt that these measures in the process should be strengthened and extended. In particular, brave measures are needed to ensure a stable income for the families of those who have been deprived of their work. Besides, the Prime Minister himself referred to immediate and medium-term measures and long-term objectives for the reconstruction of northern Evia. It is important that the coordination of this grand work was entrusted to an unselfish visionary of self-government, culture and volunteering, Stavros Beno, and this is the crucial difference in relation to the past, which, when it erased the light of publicity, also erased the interest of a government. What they said rightly, "every miracle three days and the great four", so did government care. It is therefore our responsibility to turn this disaster into an opportunity for Northern Evia to get out of the stagnation and abandonment, and for this to be a necessary precondition for safe and fast road access. Since 2007, studies were commissioned to upgrade the North Road Axis. Today, the two studies, which concern the affected areas of Artemis and Agia Anna, are in a mature state. The completion and update of the studies should therefore be accelerated in order to auction the task of upgrading a 50 km section of the EO77 section, which is a follow-up to the Chalkida-Artakis-Fasch road bypass. This is the fastest way to development, to create, that is, modern infrastructure, infrastructure that is resistant to climate change. And it is the first time that such a holistic reconstruction plan is being drawn up, with a view and a long-term target, with specific urban plans and with studies on critical infrastructures and networks, human resources and the working environment, for a new tourist identity and a new productive model, combining public investment with private capital mobilisation. But in particular, Mr President, I would like to focus on the attempt to regenerate the forest. Hot areas with the provisions of the Act of Legislation are declared refreshable in thirty days from now ninety, while an ambitious national refreshment plan and efficient water management is being promoted. The fact is that the state today gives a fight with time to complete the anti-military and anti-corrosion works in record time. In northern Evia, as the Minister, Mr. Skrekas, has committed himself, forests will assign the projects to limit surface erosion to forest cooperatives by direct delegation which have also been strengthened by the state budget with the sum of EUR 700,000. Especially the works of the mountain bed need resin farmers and forest workers, people who love forests and know forests. They are the ones who will undertake to complete the restoration and protection of damaged forest ecosystems. This requires us to stand up, as is the encouragement of the Municipality of Istia - Ethiopia, standing up to regenerate the forest, standing up to prevent the desertification of the area, standing up to make small and large miracles, standing up to rebuild northern Euboea better and more beautiful than it was.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u59	The parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, Mr Michael Katrinis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u60	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have experienced an unprecedented incident a little while ago that demonstrates that when communication and impression replace politics, situations arise that make the political system ridiculous and obviously expose their inspirations. For a few hours we have had political protection without a political leader, and it is the subject of the debate and the current bill and the last. And just because I said that the inspirations of this communication type of choice that has never been accepted and which has led to a shipwreck are, in this case, the Prime Minister himself, the inspiration of this choice, who has accelerated the reform because, on the one hand, the opinion polls on the one hand and the need to keep him on the other hand - on the other - on the other - on a always communication level and not on a substantial level - have led to the acceleration of this remodeling, which was announced after all praiseworthy and which has resulted in these unprecedented incidents. Turning the time back fourteen years before the very same period, it was August 29, 2007, in the murderous fires of Elijah, the eighth largest disaster worldwide according to the "TIME", then again the New Democracy government had come with a similar act of legislation. Then, of course, Minister, you had announced elections, that was the movement of political manoeuvre. Today you have confined yourself to this remodeling that has led to intriguing situations. It is a reshape that is a confession of total failure in the presence of the state and in dealing with both pandemic and natural disasters on the one hand. It is a reshape that demonstrates the Prime Minister's commitment - but tight - to internal balances and has a short electoral horizon, and that is why concrete choices have also been made for someone who is well aware of the anthropogeography of the party that is in the government. It is a reshape that is a message to all those who appear willing to rinse out the New Democracy, to help her rewrite the story as she wants and who are, of course, awaiting an end worthy of the choice that they made to join the conservative party. It is a reform that completely leaves the over-concentration and fully inefficient state, which has failed to manage the pandemic, which has failed to manage natural disasters. So, why is he staying? Because the Prime Minister a week ago spoke of successes and failures of the state. Obviously, in view of the use of the Recovery Fund, it was considered that the state must remain as it is and has no responsibility for what we have been living in August and in Evia and in Attica and in Arcadia and in Laconia and in other regions, but also for what we have seen in the last forty days in relation to the management of the pandemic. And a question, Minister. It seems to me that in the new scheme there is no Minister for financial stability. A month ago, in this Chamber, you were consonant with Mr Zavvo for the second titration programme that reduced bank red loans - of course, the red loans of the citizens were never reduced, instead they were increased - a minister who said we have stability in the banking system, but on the other hand the banks' guise is tightly closed for 95% of Greek businesses, while the banks are borrowing at a negative rate by the European Central Bank and a minister who said that it will solve this problem with microfinances, which one and a half years later have not started yet. So this is a confession of failure in an area in which the government is suffering, but above all the economy and entrepreneurship are suffering. In the two areas where the changes were made, and it is the government's failure confession. The first area, of course, is the pandemic. We're not before the gates, we're living the third wave of pandemic. The data compared one year before are negligible: Multiplication of cases, introductions to hospitals, imported into intensive care units, increase of deaths compared to last year's numbers in August 2020, when vaccination had not even begun. Nevertheless, the ministers of government assure us that everything is under control, that there will be no lockdown, that there will be no problems and that the situation is very satisfactory. Of course I do not know whether the removal of the Minister of Health and the restoration of the Deputy Minister of Health, who also a month ago, the government said that they manage very well the pandemic, that they have prepared the public health system in the best possible way, that all areas have been shielded healthly, that the vaccination programme is going very well, that we are at a satisfactory level comparing as a country with the other European countries, if today's removals constitute - which is, of course, a rhetoric question - a confession of failure in this area, which unfortunately also has human health, health and economic costs. All this, then, when the pandemic's development appeared and some in this Chamber told you: 'Don't triumph, do not create a climate of over-optimism, risk has not been removed', what have you done? You made the vaccination field micro-party confrontation with some unfortunate statements. Instead of using the majority of anti-population officials who were suddenly in favour of vaccination to jointly make an awareness-raising campaign to raise public opinion, you were trying to use some unfortunate statements - even individual - to use them for small-party benefit, dividing society, creating a political issue in an issue that has nothing to do with politics, it is a matter of public health and a national objective. And, of course, the scientists, who should only address themselves to society and the citizens to convince those who have doubts, those who fear, who have been taken away from the public debate, have unfortunately also worked and been cancelled and have come out before politicians who, with their own arson and divisional speech, have taken the opposite results from the anticipated. The government has fallen out of all the estimates it has made so far to achieve the wall of immunity. It did not strengthen the National Health System and its structures. It did not activate the private sector in time in the part of home vaccinations. He obviously lost the bet of credibility and persuasiveness towards the citizens and, above all, did not exploit the overwhelming support of the political system in an effort that should be shared to bring better results, but instead he tried to obtain political benefits of a temporary nature in its own knowledge. So this is the one forefront on which the government, unfortunately, has failed to date and we cannot know what the consequences of this mismanagement will be. The second is the area of natural disasters and fires that hit our country in August. There was a failure in prevention, despite the fact that a few months ago our competent ministers assured us that we were ready. There has been a failure in the management and treatment of fires at the time of the crackdown, that is to say, we in this Chamber do not have to say it, but they have seen it - to be sure, Minister - the inhabitants of all the regions affected, namely the absence of the state mechanism and intervention at the time of the crisis. And of course, despite the ambitious efforts of firefighters, police officers, volunteers and porters who saved the price of the state, the state machine was neither ready nor effective to give support to the citizens. So what do we got now? We are talking about an act of legislation which is the first move to rebuild the regions affected. We have, through an oral Prime Minister, too many times a statement on the reconstruction of northern Euboea. Just last Wednesday, and after many pressures from the institutions, political and professional bodies of Elias, we heard for the first time there will be a special reconstruction plan for Elias, which we expect to see, as for Evia. However, there are other areas where Gortini of the Arcadia Prefecture, Mani, the Attica regions affected, regions of Achaia. They should be subject to a reconstruction plan that is long-term and holistic. What is the model that the government will choose this time? It will obviously not be the failed model of the Molyviat Fund that was adopted fourteen years ago. I say this because a year and a half ago I tabled a question and even applied for documents to request detailed information on the Molyviat Fund and where we are. And the answer I have received at that time is that there were 61 million euros in total, which were indisposed, but which were committed to projects that would be integrated and followed by a ministerial decision which would have notified where they would eventually be made available. Today I ask the government how much money the Molybdenum Fund can be spent on fire-fighting areas that today can be exploited to this sector? At the same time, I would like to submit to the Minutes, together with the responses of the Ministers, a list of projects that were published to me a year and a half ago which shows the criteria and the way in which the money collected on the basis of loss of life in Elijah and which were given and in terms of inequality for the regions that were destroyed and obviously on criteria that were not objective. [[At this point, the Member of the Movement of Change, Mr Michael Katrinis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I think that this is really an example of avoiding any reconstruction plan chosen either in Elias, Northern Evia, or in Arcadia or in any other regions that the government has finally decided to integrate into a reconstruction plan. Indeed, committees are being set up to form these areas, but they have no financial autonomy, because everything will be controlled by the State Secretary responsible. It is a model, therefore, centralised where the state once again plays a role that will be decisive. I hope that the role of these committees is not decorative. There are great failures and in connection with the legislative act which we are debating today. Unfortunately, there has been a separation of affected areas. We have said this too many times, we say it today. Relief and support measures should concern all residents of all fire-fighting areas. The horizontal measures announced to us, as Minister of Finance, concern two municipalities of Evia, but are true in the Municipality of Ancient Olympia visited by the President of the Republic itself five days ago and are over 50% of the apartments, should they not go in? The same applies to the Municipality of Gortinos and to other municipalities with a similar size of natural disaster. I therefore believe that this should be immediately corrected and this in itself constitutes a flaw in today's legislative act. Secondly, there is nothing to lose income in these areas beyond the Prime Minister's report that we will have some socially beneficial work programmes. He doesn't say anything about lost agricultural income. There is not today that we are talking about - people who are trying to get on the platform - something to compensate for the help of people who have lost their herbal capital, but who are not mostly farmers' professions, are farmers of special status and who, while being destroyed, are currently out of compensation. Of course, what is important is the speed of restoration of herbal capital, because we all know, ladies and gentlemen, that state aid programmes through the ELGA will take more than a year and a half to complete, be notified, with strict conditions to obtain European approval. So, a large part of our fellow citizens stays out. As far as the businesses in the affected areas are concerned, it is incomprehensible that a man who has lost all of his property in herbal capital should be asked to pay HICPs because he has not burned his house and that only those who burned them home or businesses that are connected with the primary sector and law-abidingly not only in 2021, for many years yet, will not have a turnover, not have any benefits in relation to the repayable advance, with the exemption from HICP. A special support programme must be made for a refundable advance with a small refund amount for the next few years, because as the banks have said, unfortunately, they are closed to a large majority of enterprises. For all this, a clear debate must take place here in the House and not at ministerial level, Minister, as provided for in Article 21, and you say that the way in which the aid fund is made available will be decided on a ministerial decision. We all have to agree on this in order not to relive the poor allocation of funds and, in fact, to dismantle the money from the Molyviat Fund which ended up in small projects in regions, which were occasionally administered by regional authorities who were coming to the New Democracy government and which had a much lower rate of destruction than the West Greek Region, which was the reason why they gathered. The Recovery Fund should be redesigned in relation to both environmental objectives and employment and the reconstruction and economic reconstruction of regions. A redesign of the local economy should actually be done. And I think that this bill is the first practical act of a debate that opens today. We are extremely sceptical about the strategy and about the government's intentions and whether it really means reconstruction of the firefighting areas, reconstruction which cannot be interpreted by local communities, reconstruction which cannot be done without dialogue with professional and social actors who know the local issues, but rather by decisions of the state which, under other criteria and under other conditions, will take decisions. In this direction, therefore, we believe that the state should also act much faster, much more efficiently, because the inhabitants of the regions affected and some, like my own country, Elias, have suffered this tragic situation for the second and third time in the last fifteen years, are sick of hearing announcements and corporations. They want substantial answers and solutions, and I fear that your Government, because it is moving in the sphere of communication and with today's bill and with its overall attitude from the start of the fires to this day, unfortunately does not give these answers. However, we will insist and monitor you at regular intervals to see where the money will go and whether this money will really help to relieve and reconstruct the regions affected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u61	We will now give the floor to Mr Dionysios Kalamatiano from SYRIZA. Mrs Alexopoulos will then speak and then the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy Mr. Ioannis Vroutzis. Here you go, Mr. Kalamatiane, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr President. I'll start by commenting on the reshaping. It seems that, after the public administration, the insurance funds, security bodies, the pandemic management process, natural disasters and fires, it extends to the formation of the cabinet. And I would like to ask, Mr Brutsi, Mr Skreka - you are old parliamentarians, former ministers - if you remember any other such fiasco being announced and not finally accept the position. I am a new Member. I do not remember that in the past. It seems, then, that not a single cabinet can be formed, and that is a big question for your government. There are constant, intense attempts to cover up and justify the repeated failures of your Government. The only thing that matters to government officials is the communication management of the disaster. The same work we saw in the pandemic. The same work we lived with the fires. However, as long as you are trying you cannot hide your failure to prepare for and prevent and manage fires. The remodeling, beyond the fiasco, has shown that you are confessing to failure, because the two competent ministers who managed the fires have changed. So you are basically confessing that mistakes have been made and there has been a failure, but in essence your policy is not changing it, the policy that is responsible for this failure. So your failure can't be hidden. The annulment of all the measures, the legislation, the ministerial decisions taken by the previous government and the implementation of the Goldamer Commission cannot be concealed, the lack of fire-fighting instruments, in particular the air, cannot be concealed; the lack of coordination and the management of fire-fighting, cannot be concealed. Whatever you claim the size of the disaster disguises you. They cannot hide the appeals of the inhabitants of the regions that were burnt to help, which, of course, never came. We cannot hide both their wrath and their indignation and anxiety for the present and future of themselves and their families in the affected areas. Questions are relentless. How will they be able to stay in their place and work? How will they be able to plant their olives again? I have heard a lot of the producers tell me that since the previous great destruction of our country they have been able to rebuild their properties and crops, without substantial help from the state. Now, however, they say they cannot do it again, they do not have the courage and strength and resources and the means to do so again if they are not really helped. How will farmers rebuild their stables, how will their animals feed? How will professionals and businesses in tourism, food, oil mills and other businesses be able to survive when all around is burnt? The Association for the Ages of Elias issued a letter, a cry of agony, where they emphasise that the prices of products in recent years have collapsed, the production of watermelon, potatoes, horticultural products are still awaiting aid from the coronary, Minister. Extreme weather conditions as a result of climate change have damaged many crops in this period. Producers are still waiting for their compensation. The new fire disaster has now come, as we had begun to overcome the previous disaster in 2007. So there is a shouting out of agony and desperation by the farmers, expressing all the farmers and farmers of Elijah and of course stress that the countryside population is ready to leave it. So will the Chambers and Trade Unions, who stress that if they are not supported, they will not be able to withstand the unscathed blows and I stress here that they are businesses and professionals who survive the major disaster of 2007, have survived the economic crisis and the bankruptcy of 2010, have survived the last lockdown, but now they are lifting their hands up and they don't know what dawns them. In all this, of course, you do not respond to the legislative act. It seems you do not understand the great picture. You do not choose to give the necessary support, which is needed, to all the affected and all the regions. In Elijah they burned a hundred twenty - five thousand acres, half of which are crops. The horizontal measures in all burnt areas are vital. Of course, in northern Evia, the two municipalities have been particularly affected, but it must not be right, it is not fair, forget about the firefighting Elias, the multitude Elias, the missing and abandoned Elias, and from the previous catastrophe and from the great shortages of structures and infrastructures. Where is the suspension of tax and insurance obligations for all directly and indirectly affected in all regions? There is no legal basis in practice. Why do you exclude Elijah? It's the big question. I repeat, in order for the people of Elias to be able to stay in their place, it is necessary to have a role and active involvement in anti-corruption, anti-military and, in general, in reconstruction projects. So they will be able to have a future and stay in their place, have a job. There should be an exceptional allowance for those who have lost everything in order to make up for their lost income, to restore lost plant and animal capital, to regulate firefighting loans and other loans taken by these enterprises in the crisis and cannot repay them. Shortly begins the implementation of the new Banking Code, law, with which you get all the property, even the first residence. There must, of course, be liquidity in the operations of the county. It is necessary to have specific financial instruments for businesses and professionals. Provision is also needed to support those excluded from the ELGA grant and assistance. There are non-professional farmers and small farmers who have not made OSE declarations. There's nothing for them. Don't we want these people to stay in their place and grow up? Of course we do. So there must be a special provision for them too. Most importantly, however, there must be a specific reconstruction plan for Elias which was not implemented in 2007. There have been promises, many words since then, but everything has been left in the air without actions. There are studies for substituting the irrigation system, for infrastructure, for roads, for university schools and for university departments that can exploit the vast potential of the place. Finally, this has to be done. Unfortunately, however, both the oldest and the recent past of your prolongation in crisis management leaves us no room for optimism. Now, within the disaster, you seek to promote cooperation with private individuals, you overlook the need for a central unified state planning in recovery projects, you overlook the role of local societies in these restoration processes, you see the opportunity to gain on another disaster. As with the pandemic, here too, you avoid mentioning or doing anything about strengthening public structures and infrastructure. On the contrary, you are making sure to disorganise and decouple public structures and infrastructures. The progressive citizens, however, and the progressive forces will overthrow your plans. We believe that together with the citizens, together with the scientific, environmental and educational bodies, we can create real reconstruction plans and interventions so that Elias and all those affected are worthy and deserved. And of course we can achieve recovery and reconstruction with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u63	We invite Mrs Anastasia - Catherine Alexopoulou from Greek Solution to Stepma. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, this summer's great fires leave incalculable wounds and damage to our homeland. Over a million thousands of burnt forest acres, and that's just as far as we're talking, they're a sad record of all the time for the country. It is clear that no government deterrent and prevention plan has worked. The Greek Solution has been warned for some time since 2019 with our questions in the House, with articles in the press, with our public actions. The answer was "All good, all controlled". Ladies and gentlemen, we all know very well that the abandonment of agriculture in the primary sector of the economy is the main favourite of forest fires. This is because it is known that uncultivated land gradually appears weeds, bushes, individual trees and end of forests. And all of this together when they have not given the fire more food than intensively cultivated rural areas or pastures. But when Greece once had strong agricultural production, then we never had catastrophic fires. For this reason the Greek Solution and Kyriakos Velopoulos have been saying: "Return of the Greeks to primary production, return to the countryside, to the roots of Hellenism". Let me give an example. Instead of crying some hypocritically on the burnt-outs of northern Evia, where the destruction is indeed biblical - I went right away and saw it myself - and with my eyes - let them do something simple, give incentives to the inhabitants of the region to stay in their place, regenerate and reconstruct the local economy, resin producers, farmers, farmers, beekeepers. Why else, how will they live? All their life's gone. Support, without exceptions. Another example, to speak the living language of reality. It is about the management of the poor forests, that is, the exploitation of the timber, which, in my view, must be done by the people affected by these regions themselves and for the benefit of the local society. Beyond the positive means such a thing about the natural environment or removal of carbonized material, it gives the soil the opportunity to recover. The benefits for the domestic economy are great. The felling of the burned trees in Evia, Attica, the Peloponnese and elsewhere should come to the exclusive exploitation of the inhabitants as a measure of practical support to the affected. We are also saying something very good about reafforestation, but taking account of local specificities. First of all in Evia, Keratea, Corinth and elsewhere to protect the coastal landscape, not to alter the coastal front of these regions. And above all here and now to be anti-military works. You saw what happened in Turkey, where after the fires, deadly floods occurred. Do we have to experience the same here? Last year I brought the matter to the House. So counter-flooding works that had to start yesterday. Scientists are unequivocal: the risk of flooding in water basins after fires say they are very likely with very serious economic, social, environmental and ecological impacts in the wider geographical area. To prevent flooding, therefore, we must not mourn more victims of negligence and indifference. I would like to refer to something many do not know. The Prime Minister, Mitsotakis, who was then President of the Special Permanent Committee for the Environment of the Parliament in 2008, had submitted a conclusion - a report proposing, among other things, the establishment of a single forestry protection body, strengthening forestry service with thousands of recruitments and returning this service to the treatment of fires. It writes this conclusion, dated 27 June 2008, for system pathogens, for absolute commitment to airborne means, for limiting land forces to the protection of settlements and not for direct fire-fighting, for inappropriate use of vegetation management methods, as well as for incomplete use of the voluntary offer. Excuse me, but what the Prime Minister rightly describes 13 years ago as pathogens and shortcomings, that is exactly what we have been dealing with during his government this year. Nothing has changed since then. Unfortunately, Mr Mitsotakis' conclusion remains very timely. Only he is now a Prime Minister and has been subject to his criticism since then. I repeat, here I keep the 2008 report on this, and I note that the main proposals, which were made at the time, have not been exploited and have never been implemented. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Anastassia - Catherine Alexopoulou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is well known that under the Constitution of Greece, Article 24 entitled "Environmental protection" paragraph 1 "Protection of the natural and cultural environment is an obligation of the state and the right of everyone". We also read in the same paragraph that ‘it is forbidden to change the destination of forests and forest land’. What else do we need to do the supreme law act? Forests are our soul. The recent ruin that we have experienced today enables us to resurrect the Greek land, reconstructing the local economy, developing primary production and reliving our countryside and people. It must not be lost from the possibility. We must not let this country become our land of skull. So let us make the misfortune of the opportunity to correct what has to be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u65	The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Brutsi, has the floor now. The third cycle of speakers will be followed by a natural presence and by Webex, the first speaker of Mrs Agerinopoulou from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u66	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today in the Greek Parliament there is no formal legislative initiative, as is customary, as the governments recommend over time. It's a special conversation. Unfortunately, it is an unpleasant debate because it concerns an extraordinary event, a dramatic event as a result of the catastrophic fires that our country suffered a short time ago. But let's start the bucket a little differently. I, too, have to put forward my own thoughts, remarks and anguish on the issues relating to the destruction of our country's animal and natural wealth. What constitutes wealth in a country? That's what we need to start. Riches in a country constitute the sum of the natural, animal, archaeological, cultural, historical wealth of all. This is the wealth of a country. Our country has the privilege of being a wealthy country, a country that has it all from archaeology to mineral wealth, to animal wealth, to natural wealth. This is Greece, a Greece which unfortunately because of climate change in the area of natural wealth, which has been dealing with forests for years, not only this year, has been facing catastrophic attacks because of climate change, and this is a reality that we need to see. In no case have you noticed that in truthfulness, both by the Prime Minister and by all the Members of the New Democracy, no one has said that things have been perfect. The country suffered a dramatic disaster because of the fires extensively this summer, in which we have to admit that climate change was the main cause. No one heard anyone say that they were the firefighters responsible or that the state's reaction was reduced. And it was the reaction of the state, which the firefighters had to fight, but the citizens themselves who organized themselves in their territories and villages. There's been a total battle. The result, unfortunately, is not a good one, is a negative result for our country and its natural wealth. The second element, which I am opening in parentheses, for this bill addressing the chosen political leadership of the Ministry of the Environment, is that, Minister, Secretary of State, we must also see the rest of the natural wealth on account of the destruction of this particular country, due to the fires of forest wealth in our country this year. There are other parts of the country, such as cultural, island wealth, traditional wealth. As a parliamentarian, I come from a beautiful county, the Prefecture of Cyclades, I must pass on to you that for years, not only this year, there have been extensive violations of sandy beaches, the circumvention of architectural beauty as provided for in traditional settlements and buildings and, in addition, the violations of urban arbitrariness. Do they happen everywhere? No, but they do. And here comes the state that needs to intervene immediately. I'm looking at the side of SYRIZA. It is not today's event, it is a timeless event. There is impunity and a reduced reaction of the state to these issues. And I say this, because the Cyclades and not only the Cyclades, but also the Dodecanese and Crete and the Aegean, but also the rest of the continental Greece, our beautiful country must not be left in the name of profit or arbitraryness to the mercy of people who do not see the way things should be done. It is therefore necessary to activate the Ministry of the Environment with a strict framework, with more specific features in the construction and supervision of special bodies that will go and supervise the buildings and arbitrary buildings, which should be demolished on the ground. And I say this because in a period of initial time, we saw a number of things evolving and the logic of complacentness left things and time to run. It's not like that. We see, I do not want to mention islands from my county, but there is an extensive violation of the legislative framework. It's a time-consuming problem, not today. And here we need to unite our forces, we need to unite our thoughts to save this natural wealth and the beauty of our country. It does not mean that beaches are violated, violated in the name of profit and in the name of some powerful ones who want to enforce their own law or tsamboukas in areas that today constitute this invaluable treasure for our country that will not exist tomorrow if a situation continues, as they describe it. I am sure there is a political will both from the government and from the political leadership of the Ministry of the Environment. I know both the Undersecretaries and the Minister, I know their will, I have discussed with them, and the measures need to be taken now before it is too late. So today' s debate, ladies and gentlemen, apart from this one, which I mentioned before, is not about the causes of the disaster or about what we can do to tackle it, because this has been discussed in detail at the Prime Minister's own initiative which brought the debate here and which has developed all the parameters and the destruction and preparation of the state and what has to be done. Proposals have been heard, they have been recorded and they must be a compass for the future. However, what we are debating today is whether the state is reflexive, is sensitive and whether the state is running quickly to confront and relieve the world, whoever has been hit and there are damage recovery measures. And today it is truly confirmed once again in this unpleasant environment that the government and reflexes it has features and sensitivity. And that is exactly what happens a few days after this great disaster. I avoid saying and comparing the issues which concern what has happened in the past, because the government has given priority to the issue of saving human lives, which no one should overlook. Because in priority what we need to save is man, and on second fate the richness of nature or I would say at the same time, but before man, human life. And the government succeeded with the innovative process of "112", which was swept from the standpoint of counterpopulation, but this year saved lives in this great destructive pitfall of fire. He saved lives this year in "112". So now we are going to the government's reflexes, because that is what we are talking about, the measures of the 500 million that the Minister for the Environment and the Minister for Finance have announced in combination with the speed and effectiveness of the measures. I am therefore obliged, ladies and gentlemen, to list the measures which we have taken very quickly, but also to make a reference to the past. The government has given examinations in similar cases. He has given Samos earthquake, he has given Janus to this great flood storm, which brought to Central Greece. He has given tests and taken a high degree, for he has shown he has also reflexes and promptly relieved the wounded. Today, with the act of legislation, we are coming and, firstly, the burnt land is declared to be resurrected within thirty days instead of ninety days. The forestry services of decentralised administrations are promoted at the Ministry of Environment and Energy. Mr Screkas now assumes this great responsibility as a political leader. A new concept of'reafforestation contract' is introduced and institutionalised. It is planned to speed up the specific forestry projects. It is intended to simplify the procedure for authorising the acceptance of burnt standing trees. The inappropriate payment of resin workers, both from the public and from third parties, is introduced, up to EUR 7,500 per year in general and up to EUR 12,000 per year for beneficiaries of the areas declared in an emergency. Secondly, with regard to the substantial and broad support of our affected fellow citizens from the fires of July, August 21, an electronic platform called arogi.gov.gr is being created. It has already been created and in which thousands of our fellow citizens, who have been hurt and get the first relief money. The only exceptional financial assistance is to be granted for premises of natural or legal persons, as well as for construction. For businesses as well as non-profit-making entities, the subsidy is provided for in order to deal with the losses suffered. For our fellow citizens, who have suffered a fire injury and have been hospitalised for over two days, a single financial aid amounting to EUR 6 000 is foreseen. The tax-free and incompatible aid for the fire workers is being introduced. In addition, for the years 2021, 1922 and 1923, an exemption from the single property tax is provided for, commonly, property in the areas where the fires have occurred and for the parcels where the owners hold a declaration of destruction by the relevant agricultural production and controls. For enterprises, private sector employers regardless of industry and business activity and whether or not they have suffered material damage to the areas, which are part of the administrative boundaries of the Municipality of Istias, Efips and Mandudi, Lake, Saint Anna, the Evia Regional Unit, the Region of Central Greece ensures no redundancy of workers. For those affected, who are temporarily or permanently in an unforeseen state of emergency, provision is made for the possibility to be re-allocated by the National Health Services Agency of types of medication and additional care, including medical devices, which have been destroyed regardless of the time of their receipt and without the participation of the insured or the person receiving treatment, i.e. no participation, i.e. by way of derogation from the Agency's current single health care regulations and the relevant legislation. It is planned to be possible to appoint people in the public or in the public sector who have suffered severe burns and have been hospitalized in an intensive care facility or in an increased care facility or for which at least 67% of the disability is due to the fires in July - August 2021. Students' support measures shall be taken as regards the possibility of transferring housing to student homes and feeding in case of firefighting. And it extends the scope of the digital care programme, where both students and teachers of all levels now fall. Finally, provision is made for the establishment of the State Aid Fund in the form of a legal person governed by public law. The Fund will be supervised by the Minister of Finance and its purpose will be to finance support and support programmes and actions affected by natural disasters, as well as restorations following natural disasters complementary to aid and the state budget. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a coherent package of measures, which the Minister for Finance has just arrived and supplemented, with additional information which Mr Kalamatiano has asked me from what I have heard. Yes, there is also an insurance and tax option for doses or suspension as described by the Minister of Finance. It is good to listen to the ministers when they come with amendments and speak from a Chamber Step. The conclusion is as follows. Whether or not you disagree with the size of the interventions made by the government, these measures, which are important and are currently coming to alleviate and restore damage and alleviate a world that suffers, must be voted on. You can put your own extras that need to get in, in your opinion, but these 500 million is not justified by SYRIZA to say that "I refuse to vote", because they are relief measures, which will restore the damage we have recently suffered from fires, and it is your political obligation and duty to do so. If you do not, assess yourself from the world who is following the debate and who needs this money and this intervention. I'm closing, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said at the outset, this is unfortunately an unpleasant debate, which concerns an exceptionally unpleasant event for our country. Let us hope that it will not be repeated in the future. In the section on the intervention of the Ministry of the Environment, however, I think that weighting of the specific weight of the Ministry of the Environment is now very important and great. The physicist, archaeological, historian, morphological, geographical wealth of our country must be the top priority. The Aegean islands, Crete and the parts of mainland Greece, which have traditional settlements, which are this unaltered unique Greek environment, history and culture, must be the first priority and there must be controls by the Ministry of the Environment so that they are neither altered nor destroyed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u67	We continue with Mrs Dionysia Agerinopoulou from New Democracy and then Mr Hatzigiannakis from SYRIZA will follow. Mrs Agrinopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u68	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the past few days, our country has experienced a large-scale environmental disaster and the loss of thousands of acres of forest and agricultural land. These fires, as is apparent from similar incidents in other Euro-Mediterranean countries, are largely due to the climate crisis, but also to the particular vulnerability of the ecosystems of the Eastern Mediterranean. In two days' time, a major international conference on the protection of biodiversity will be launched in Marseille, France, in which our country will be represented at the Prime Minister's level, where, among other key issues, the issue of Mediterranean fires will also be discussed. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has called for a joint meeting with the other parliaments of the Euro-Mediterranean countries to be held on common policies to prevent and treat fires in the Mediterranean forests. We should not, however, ignore the dimension of the anthropogenic causes of the fire, such as arsonism, which seems to be a major cause of the fire on many fronts in our country, including Elias. In the case of such arsons, a thorough investigation should be carried out and the results should be made available to Parliament. With these difficult data on extinguishing operations, it is worth congratulating the men and women of the firefighting and all the security bodies, as well as the volunteers, who have been on fire for the first time. With regard to the rehabilitation of the affected, the government has undoubtedly moved rapidly and has progressed rapidly to alleviate our firefighting fellow citizens. The first stage of autopsies has already been completed and the steps of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, as well as ELGA, have almost completed the autopsies. A significant part of the advance payments for our fellow citizens have already been made. Our fellow citizens will be compensated for the loss of their herbal and animal capital, their homes and their families. The insurance, tax and credit obligations of the affected are suspended, which are even exempted from HISA. Furthermore, the bill provides for exceptional measures to protect jobs and to subsidise workers to companies that have been destroyed. The measures which we are adopting today should also apply to Elias, just as in Evia. The extent of the fire in Elia has led to a great blow to the economic life of ancient Olympia and the Municipality of Pyrgos and, of course, economic life is affected through the economic chain throughout southern Elias. In view of the multiple blows of our prefecture from climate change from 2007 continuously to today, we expect full support, but also the shielding of our prefecture. We therefore expect the next time to hear the details of the reconstruction plan for ancient Olympia and the wider region. Further, the restructuring of the Fire Agency is of major importance for the effective management of fires so that it becomes more effective, especially in the fight against forest fires. This is a large section which needs to be implemented immediately. Likewise, the transport of forest services to the Ministry of the Environment hopes to strengthen the actions to prevent and restore the natural disasters to be carried out by our forests. Another aspect which the government has advanced and which the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has repeatedly asked for. Apart from natural and economic reconstruction, prevention from now on must be our main concern. We have already tabled a proposal to establish a joint planning and action team between the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Civil Protection to this end. Let us make use of the experience that has been bitterly collected so far. Let us make use of the new technologies, which are now available in the field of disaster prevention. Let us build a long-term strategy for tackling climate change and address natural and man-made disasters and effectively shield our country for the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u69	We now invite Mr. Miltiadis Hadjiyannakis from SYRIZA to Stepma. The next three speakers will be followed by Mr Kotsos, Mr Boubas and Mr Boutsikakis, following Mr Hatziganakis. Mr. Hatzyannakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr President. About twenty days ago, the last days we spent on northern Evia with the fires, in the minimum hours of sleep, which were necessary to be able to get back to the front with the mayors, with the people of the region, I thought that, regardless of what will be the first bill to be called to speak from the Step of plenary, I would make a full reference to the fire that hit our place, northern Evia. I considered it a duty to these people who were destroyed by their livelihoods toward these people who lived daily with the anguish of the nuclear mud. Obviously those days we did not know what will be the first bill to be discussed. It happened and it is, in fact, the bill for the ratification of the act of fires legislation, so it also fits topics. The truth is, because I heard before Mr Brutsi, but I also heard the Prime Minister last week, Mr Vuchss said that climate change was responsible for the fires in our country. New Democracy discovered it for two years, not now. Mr Mitsotakis told it in the forum abroad about the Eye at the time. But, of course, he said before. Obviously, climate change is also responsible. I do not suggest that climate change is not responsible. But we heard that there were no responsibilities of the state mechanism. I will give you the experience I've had over nine days, with very specific data, and you and the people who will listen to us about whether it worked or not. Do you know why I've spent nine days on fires? One reason. I'm telling you, honestly, in honor. Because I was embarrassed. I was ashamed of these people who burned their property, ashamed of the factors of all local government, the mayors, the mayors, the district ruler, the district commanders, all the people who were up and watching and fighting alone with fire, because we had abandoned them. They were abandoned by the state. We failed as a state, failed as a state and obviously failed as a government. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of Parliament, Mr. Epostolos ABDELAS takes over]] I'll tell you very specifically so you don't think I'm talking in general. In Krya Vrysi next to Madudi, people with gradients were begging the mayor to call a fire department because we were catching her, she was in a field. And it seemed that if he entered the woods he would have burned and Kyrinthos would have burned the villages - because it would definitely pass as soon as he entered the woods - Spathari, Metohi and all that. There wasn't a single fire extinguisher! Along with the mayor, we were. I made a personal call four times. There wasn't a single fire extinguisher. The same night in the village of Amellades with the vice mayor, fourteen hours burned in the very opposite mountain a very small fireplace, which was not moving and sat there waiting to erase it since it had almost zero air. He begged the vice mayor, who I am passing away, is also a New Democracy official for fourteen hours and said "send an air means to erase the fire because if Agia Anna leaves, she will burn the Achladi, she will get to the Greeks." Fourteen hours together we were with the village president. They were trying to make belts. We were with the mayor and the district chief in Pefki. It seemed dangerous to get in from a piece because it has a very small chain at the entrance of the town, on the side of Asmeni. There wasn't a single fire extinguisher. We went to burn together with the Mayor, Yannis Kotzias and the district chief. We left for the last minute as soon as the fire jumped us. And as soon as we got down, the man broke out five days sleepless, and he cried and we weeped together like we were little kids. And we consider that a state? So you think you really had protection instruments for Northern Evia? Because I can't talk about the other regions. But what I've lived through is what I have to carry. Do you know what it's like to burn the Lake at night, after midnight, to have been rounded up - three were the entrances that could have entered the fire, entered all three - to have the world removed, but to have left the mayor sleepless next to you and his wife not knowing what to do with him? They may seem dramatic, but that's what we've lived these days in northern Evia. That's what we've lived for. The district manager said what he lived last week, because he was there. That's what Fanny the Spaniard said. He said we were trying to erase the fire without water. Have you seen a fire go out without water? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will need a little more time, because it is the subject and the treaty is the subject of it. I knew I'd need some more time. If I have your tolerance, I will try to be very brief, because I shall refer very briefly to the regulations of the legislative act. The situation was tragic. We couldn't imagine in the first few days when we went that they were gonna burn five hundred thousand acres. And now you should go yesterday when we were in Strofykia, burnt up, smells like a whole area. It's been twenty days and if you open your car window, you don't have to go down, it smells burnt everywhere. I do not want to get far, I just thought that they should have heard from the Step, no matter what the Prime Minister said last week, no matter what we might say or what may have been transmitted by too much, the truth is, from the image of the media and news channels. I had to carry it, I considered it my duty, from the shame, as I said before, that I felt as a member of the Greek state, as an elected representative of those people who did not have what to say to them. You know, there's not a single man in northern Evia who doesn't think Evia was sacrificed. Fair - fair, I am not making the criticism of this. With whomever you go to talk, from the first to the last, there is not a single person in northern Greece who does not think Evia was sacrificed. And it is true that there were a lot of fronts, so it was difficult to have too much airborne, but even on the seventh day - because I have to present it - that there were no other active serious fronts in the country, from ten o'clock in the front of the Camariad - which was the main front of that day, because if the fire was going up to the Midwives of Ethiopia, it was a given and fortunately did not leave, the climate conditions - the district manager, the mayor, the mayor of Istanbul, the Dean and the commander of the Firefighting Beggar would come in to save what I said to you now and come to four. What can it do to erase from four to seven flying? Two helicopters came in and they couldn't. So the failure is a given one and we don't have to talk about it. We do not have to argue because the failure of the state mechanism was given the fact. Now for the measles. Obviously, we need to take action. Evia obviously also - because for Evia I am going to speak - it needs a very serious reconstruction plan, because it has the particular interest that almost all productive sectors were living from the forest. Because that's what we had to show up for, that's what the world visited, the beautiful element of Evia. He's got too many people who've lost their job with the foresters and resin farmers first of all. The measures there, if you'll excuse me, are at least inadequate. I hope that, in the next few days, you will also be able to make a contribution to our own, because I tell you in advance, we will try to contribute to the Benoux Committee. The question is not to do what happened last year, which again in Evia we had floods and we mourned nine of our people dead. The entire Ministerial Council, and the Prime Minister himself, has announced measures of counter-fighting that have not yet been studied. After a year, the studies have not been completed, neither in Lilanda nor in Messapio. And now there is a serious danger, you understand, with a burnt land half Evia in winter mourning victims of the floods. If you move back at the same pace as last year, we'll still be here, say how bad climate change is, what measures we need to take, what ministries we need to build new ones, but we'll actually have a hole in the water. And I'm closing up with it. In the burned buildings at least the provision of the act of legislation is inadequate for the following reason. There is a fund of the old Labour House agency that has available resources, severe resources available from 2019 and 2020 by regulation made by the Ministry of Labour.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u71	Mr. Hatzigiannakis, I understand your emotional burden, I understand all this...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u72	I know, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u73	But please...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u74	I shall conclude immediately, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u75	Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u76	There's a fund of 640 million and it's for housing assistance. Use it and compensate 100% the damage that people have suffered from fires throughout the country. That's enough and that's enough. That money is useless. Do not use them for other ‘slice-scan’. As far as the resin collectors are concerned, we have obviously also proposed. Vangelis the Apostle knows very well. It's from the area, too. We'll work it out. The Communist Party of Greece also made very serious intervention, because there is a resolution from the top. Old and to-retirement - those who have labeled and completed some age and have nothing to do with their lives - need restoration. Obviously, there needs to be a plan for workers and resin farmers to be able to use stable jobs in the coming years for the care and development of the forest. We will come back to the future with proposals, which must be made quickly, but, unfortunately, if measures for counter-mutual protection and for the immediate treatment of human poverty are not taken very soon, we will have a very, very, very serious problem in Evia in the coming months. Thank you and apologies for the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u77	Good evening, too. Mr Kotsos from New Democracy is called in Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u78	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Secretary-General, ladies and gentlemen, I think that we can all agree that we have now entered a new era where the climate has literally been deregulation, the environment has been differentiated, which favours the extremes, the intense, rare weather phenomena, which are being made, from what is evident, part of our daily lives throughout the time and that the climate in Greece has, in fact, been transformed from a temperate, Mediterranean that we have learned in municipality, into subtropical, with extremes regularly flooded, but also with painful and heavy heaters. We must, therefore, adapt as a country to these new data on multiple levels - at the level of the anthropogenic environment, at the level of the primary sector, of infrastructure projects - because we have lived in Karditsa with the 'January' - flooding phenomena which the infrastructures with the dimensions that they had in no way been able to withstand. Most importantly, however, we also need to adapt the plan, which we have for our civil protection and for the issues of civil protection, which, as it has seen in the last two years, will be of increasing concern to us. That is why the Prime Minister has announced today the establishment of an autonomous ministry to deal with civil protection. Especially this year, we had an extremely hot summer with large heaters, over a long period. At forty - seven degrees, the temperature was at some times. And this, of course, has not only happened in Greece, but throughout southern Europe where we have had great, dramatic fires - in Italy, in France, in Spain - which have, in fact, hit these regions and created huge problems. Here to point out and recognise that, in order to be useful to the citizens, policy must be adapted to these changes, whether they are social or environmental. Indeed, it should be quickly and directly reflexed, as did our Government in all these crises that it has faced in previous years and which have not been very few. Shall we begin with Evros with the refugee flows, the pandemic, the flooding phenomenon of 'Janu' in central Greece, which has been unprecedented for three hundred and five hundred years, as the experts say, the earthquakes, the fires? And the government comes through a difficult, really, task to give answers. Easy answers? Obviously not. And it is understandable that the anguish and distress, but also the pressure that the people who have suffered the consequences of these kinds of extreme phenomena are understandable. And I tell you on account of knowledge, as a Cardiciotis, who in October - late October - drowned a whole prefecture. Is the government out there? Of course not. With very great directness, he acted very quickly, unleashed wounds and gave solutions to issues and progressed restoration work. We are doing the same in this case. That is why this act of legislation comes so quickly to pass through Parliament, which will plan, demarcate and implement the fire-fighting projects. Should we also recognise that, in these kinds of issues, there are no petty and petty controversy? I think that all the wings have expressed the need for cross-party consultation and national planning in order to address these challenges, the unprecedented challenges which, as I have said before, seem to be constantly part of our lives. But what do you mean by this cross-party agreement, by the supra-party agreement? The Prime Minister gave a concrete sample of writing, above party stereotypes, party lines. And you see that in the newly established Ministry of Civil Protection he proposed that he be a leading executive of the previous government. If nothing else is a sign that it is inclined to work together on all sides, that it wants to exploit all those who, in fact, can offer in this story? And what's the reaction? Discovering conditions that reach the level of distance in order to prevent this development. We are honored? I have heard the previous speaker say, 'We will also contribute to the rehabilitation and rehabilitation measures for these regions'. In what way? Verbal? Philology? With a lexilageny? All of this has a real, substantial footprint, which in practice appears to be apparent. And by this act we are judged on a daily basis. And because time is running, I want to stay on just one point: the role that the Forest Service plays now in the modern Greek state. You know, I come from an extremely poor and mountainous area, Argithea, where the forest office in old times was a pillar of development and economic activity for mountainous areas through self-sufficient works, through road openings, by mountainous hydronomial works? And where did we end up being the Forestry in recent years? Be a repressive and denounced mechanism. This office we want? Do we want this service at the service of the environment at the service of the forest? So it is right that the government passes this Service to the Ministry of the Environment to restructure it, to restructure it, to make it effective and effective, so that it is the true guardian of the forest, the real supporter and pillar of the development of mountainous, disadvantaged and population-reduced areas. That's the kind of service we want. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance. And here we want to call on all of us and all to help, so that, on the one hand, we can reorientate the regions which have suffered enormous damage - and here, in fact, we really need to prove in practice that we mean cross-party consensus - but at the same time also create all that institutional and also at a public level so that the services which are now working together on all sides can be effective, substantial and rapid. I am sure you all recognize that the times are not waiting. The people require us to stand up to the situation. We, as a government, want to assure you that we are determined to achieve this. We invite you to be on our side. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, too. Mr. Konstantinos Boubas is called in Stepma from the Greek Solution. Seven minutes, Mr. Booba?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u80	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, we were preparing for a tricolor reform. Let's use that title. However, a collor left and became a dicolor now with Mr Apostolakis, because the Prime Minister wanted to implement the 'bas and accept' system. In the past, there were some football coaches who used to call the "bas and pass the ball". Didn't he know that Mr. Apostolakis is not a paratrooper of the static strap, is he a free drop, "Black Pulse"? He was until 2001 commander in the submarine disasters. This formation has been destroyed, but I would like to ask: A hundred and fifty-eight Members in New Democracy and the Prime Minister is looking to other fields? What does he want his MPs to be on a setup? Why would this precursor go from SYRIZA to have a government and later collapsing blue, go green, go ki oil - I don't know what else - and I don't know what else - and I don't want to say red - sour beans? Mr. Zavvos, what happened? He knows these financial and economic things very well, Mr. Villardus, my likeness. What happened to this notorious ministry of financial stability? Couldn't serve red loans? Where's Mr. Zavvos? With light jumpers too? Why? Where's the HERAKLIS system? Mythology says Hercules was poisoned by his own tunic. What were we telling you as Greek Solution? We said that the system "HRAKLIS" will fail in the homes of the Greeks, where first home auctions are prepared? Why was this ministry abolished? My colleague, before that, seems unaware. He may be uninformed for this, but we find out what happened just now, after the Admiral, Mr. Apostolakis left, who pulled his ears and Tsipras, who didn't tie the sweet menu well. Mr. Apostolakis' son is also a television chef. Did he tell him, the menu, Father, isn't it good, go away? The question is - perhaps the previous speaker has not been informed - that there is no new Ministry in the end. That's what we learned a moment ago. We saw it a while ago with Mr. Villardos. It will ultimately be under the responsibility of the Ministry of Civil Protection, the Civil Protection and the debts of the political leader, the Secretary-General will do so. So he went to become a new ministry, but it was then abolished, as the Ministry of Financial Stability was abolished. So we're going to make a policy mix of a new government remodeling and look for blurred waters? If Mr Mitsotakis doesn't want to be President in New Democracy, let him say it clearly or has changed ideological navigation and he's been looking for other fields? We are now going to something else, because the Greek people must know what the omissions are, in which we as Greek Solution and our President, Kyriakos Velopoulos, have only been mentioned a few times. In 1998, the Forestry Department was given responsibility for the firefighting service. The two parties involved, ladies and gentlemen, have been meeting for twenty years! They meet for the first time in 2019. Makes a proposal for the 2008 Fire Service to become a special group of mountainous routes, not of repression, but of fire prevention, as an alternative to Coreper and not accept the proposal then the Ministries. We are talking about fifty - six thousand fires from 1980 to today with over ninety million acres. Look at the technocrats, the scholars, the praisers and the experts. I waited for them to listen and the government to legislate on the basis of these findings. What does the Greek solution say to you? Take a moment now, scientifically in-depth expert opinion. That is what we need to see, because we have a number of suggestions. Where should I go first? Forestry service. August beginnings, the Vice President of Forests, Mr. Nikos Bokaris, comes out, and says we have accumulated fuel in the forests, but we are waiting for the NRP to clean them up. Mr. Bokaris prophetic. Drift comes out, who in the magazine "AMFIBION", issue 97, says that we need to increase the forests and go to new kinds of trees that don't burn easily, such as the cursed tree in the Romans, the pine tree, for which we, as Greek Solution, say? Go to new tree species, to be trees that will not be a medal, which will not be bombs. We have not said that the pine trees will be abolished, but as Mr Drift and the experts say, they will be planted so that the pine trees will not be removed from the pollination and apiculture. It's just, studies are needed. That's what Mr Drift says, what the Greek Solution tells you. So you're told by the experts. Should we go to Mr. Stadtopoulos, the federation's president, who says we have four thousand deficiencies in the firefighting, with an old fleet of vehicles, which is over thirty years old and is over 35% of the fleet? What can we say now? For Mr. Franciscaki, who says we have a thousand two hundred forest experts left and five hundred? We then go to the investigation by Andrianos Gourbatsi, who tells you what the Greek and Greek Solutions tell you: a single management body not only suppression, but prevention. They always make it better for him. That is what Mr Gurbatsis, the Lt-Gen with very great experience, says. Here we see that every 100 thousand inhabitants represent 12.7 forest fires. The number, ladies and gentlemen, is great. May I tell you that since 1980 in the fires of Penteli - today the acre goes one million there - of the three hundred thousand acres that burned the twenty-five thousand have entered the town plan? And crime continues in 1990-1991, where thirty-six acres were excluded, thirty-one building permits were issued in the woods. That's what the Greek Solution tells you. So we say, with a legal framework, declar reservoir areas, not wind turbines, furforts and photovoltaics denounced by the Greek Ornithological Society itself, denounces the Agricultural Association of Livade in RAE for the licenses it gave to construction companies from the six thousand four hundred applications. We're seeing each other? There are serious complaints here. Here there are complaints of seriousness for five thousand wind turbines in fourteen islands of the southern Aegean! We'll go and photograph it instead of windmills. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Let's go a little bit further. I know I don't have time, but it's serious. Articles 6 and 12. Are you talking about private-law legal persons, speculative or non-profit-making, in other words NGOs that go into the forests? There is ambiguity from the legislative act. First, exclusive use for how long, ten, twenty, for thirty, for forty years? The legislator does not clarify it, it does not clarify it. The private guy came in, we've got the old gold bruises, we'll have more. Where will it be financed from the packages of the National Strategic Development Framework, ESDP? Do the rulers explain it to us? Because the NRP opens from now until 2027. The business activity, see wind turbines, photovoltaics, holiday villages, hotel facilities, who will manage it? The benefits of the rural economy who? The legal person of a non-profit-making nature? Are we going well? Are we all right? I want to ask the Prime Minister. Mr. Apostle knows that he's in front of me. There was a finding from Gabriel Xanthopoulou after the tragedy in Matty. He's coming out and giving a break. Who's Gabriel Xanthopoulou? He's a researcher at the Mediterranean Institute for Forestry. Who's Mr. Johan Goldmer? He's the president of the Forest Fire Monitoring Centre at a global level. Is that so? So they gave a conclusion in February 2019 to the then President of the Parliament, Mr. Voutsi, and the current Prime Minister and then the head of the counter-population comes out and says: As soon as I become a government, I will act on the Goldamer and Xanthopoulou. Where's the finding? Tell me where the finding is. Does the Greek people know? Where's the finding? We're looking for it. The finding didn't apply. Is there an example in Greece of imitation that we should all visit, and is the Lefkimis - Souflis - Dadias forest, which he did? The program "INTERREG", like the Romanians, together with the Municipality of Haskovo, Bulgaria, put thermal cameras within a radius of fifteen kilometers, connected to the alarm terminals with the Firehouse in the Municipality of Sufli after what happened in 2011 from the fire we had in the forest of Dadeia with the rare species of birds. I was waiting today for a programme with observers, with water reservoirs, which will give us guarantees and money to the new 'HORIZON EUROPE', the European Union programme and the thermal cameras which are not costly. I've been talking about it with Mr. Villard. It is 413,000 euros spent in the Municipality of Souflios to cover with thermal cameras 15 km and has its head quietly. And I'm finishing up with the resin because it didn't sound very important. The resin had for the northern and central Euboea income of about 5.5 million euros. The contributions of the people with the resin and the retsini were EUR 220,000 in the insurance funds. The resin was sought in Istia, Chalkida and Megaras, where there is a unique industry for seventy - five applications and people who kept the forests clean have been destroyed. Because even for nuclear warheads - apart from acrylic colours, artificial toothpastes for pharmaceuticals used - were badly damaged. The local economy of Evia collapsed. With EUR 534 that will also receive some 6 000 euros of resin producers or retina producers who have contributed to our national economy, they have been destroyed. That is why we need to legislate on the basis of the evidence provided by scientists and what the Greek Solution tells you and we are supporting them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, too. Mr. Christoforos Boutsikakis is called in Stepma from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Mr President. This summer, as we saw in very short periods of time, we experienced very large fires, about sixty a day, resulting, of course, not only in climate change, but also in human factors and arson. Our government has decided from the beginning to stand by the people who were affected by this disaster, from Godhood, and to leave no man helpless. It also decided that none of these regions, which especially in Evia, have suffered these huge disasters, should remain without being restored. This also demonstrates the legislative acts which we are debating and which we are voting on today, acts which have been directly adopted by the relevant ministers and which we shall now be ratifying at the National Representation. These operations promote an integrated range of measures which address the overall consequences of the fires. The aim, of course, is to strengthen immediately the regions and persons affected. The engineers of the Ministry of Infrastructure have passed through all areas that have been destroyed, Attiki, Evia, Peloponnese, Phthiotida, Fokidas, everywhere, and the control and control of dwellings and professional spaces, as well as in public buildings, has been completed. In a few days' time, the first allowances for beneficiaries of state aid began to be paid. Through a very simple procedure over EUR 17 million has already been allocated to more than three thousand of our fellow citizens who are in trouble. At the same time, the affected may request an advance on housing assistance with a simple request, exemption from HICP, compensation for the construction, but also other financial aid for damages suffered by their enterprises or farms. The expansion and exceptional grant of the municipalities and regions by the Ministry of Interior has already been approved for the restoration and reconstruction of the areas affected. A large part concerns Evia, where a comprehensive plan to restore new infrastructure, develop and strengthen economic activities due to the unprecedented magnitude of the disaster will also be drawn up. Our primary task is to ensure reafforestation in practice for all the acres of the forest that have been burnt not in words, but to do what is needed in accordance with the expert's instructions. The people who lived in the woods will work in the woods. We're already doing flooding and we're gonna let nature do its job. We make sure there is no grazing in burnt pine forests so that they can be resurrected. So will physical regeneration, just as the geologists recommend. Of course there are also areas where artificial reafforestation, such as in northern Evia, must take place in the settlements around the forests and Tatoi. So we're here to do whatever it takes and we'll do it. We managed not to mourn victims. Thanks to 112 we managed to evacuate all the areas and all the settlements in time. Clearly there have been errors, clearly and there have been weaknesses. We will not bury them or disguise them as some in opposition today. We show them all so that we can be better and stronger. Ladies and gentlemen, what I have said today is only some of the dozens of measures and actions which demonstrate that the government is moving rapidly, effectively in the face of the consequences of this unprecedented situation. The Greek state has never reacted and has never moved faster to deal with the consequences of natural disasters. We support our firefighting fellow citizens, shield the state mechanism, restore our national wealth, face the gaps and weaknesses we have inherited. Faced with climate change, we need to change everything. That is why we have secured more than 18 billion euros from the plan 'Greece 2.0' and from the ESRB, where one of the four pillars is of course about the green economy. All this is not a case of a government or just a party. It's a matter of all Greece. As in the case of the pandemic, now to deal with the consequences of the fires, the New Democracy Government is taking more, more direct and more targeted measures than ever. The least we can do in this Chamber, ladies and gentlemen, is to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u83	Thank you too, Mr Boutsikaki. Mr. Emmanuel Synthrakis, from the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor, since I thank Mr. Famelos for his concession.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr President. The Communist Party of Greece, unlike the other parties, does not blame the Government of New Democracy simply for some failures or some omissions. Without exaggeration the government for us is the perpetrator of a serial crime against the natural environment, people's property and a threat to human life. This accusation is of course a burden on all governments over time. Except for New Democracy, SYRIZA, PASOK - KINAL, all governments. No apologies for the Prime Minister and no minimum consensus with the New Democracy, as the President of the SYRIZA is asking does not erase the criminal responsibilities of all of you. The responsibilities are not being omitted from this point of view and you are all on the forefront of time-consuming crime at the expense of the people. The basis of consensus, consensus, as you like to say, is a real issue. Proof that the new reform attempted to express itself with the participation of the Government of Mr Apostolakis, the former Minister of Defence on SYRIZA. He, of course, refused even though the questions remain enough. In any case, however, the whole case, regardless of any communication handling and on either side of the case, has demonstrated the common strategy of the New Democracy and SYRIZA and the convenience that a political person can exploit from two parties. This agreement concerns, in particular, your agreement to the green growth strategy of the green transition to the 32 billion-dollar recovery fund which will be loaded on the people's backs with a new memorandum. These are funds which will not go either for anti-nuclear, anti-military and anti-Semitism planning, for the armoury of the regions and the affected, for new ICUs, for hospitals, for the recruitment of doctors and nurses, for schools, for rooms, for teachers, or for the enhancement of the incomes of the self-employed, for poor farmers, for wages and pensions. They will go in systemically, borrow and unsettled to guarantee the new green and digital business of business groups, turning climate change into an opportunity. From this point of view the bid between New Democracy and SYRIZA for what destruction was greater if it was the murderous fire in Matti or this year's fires in Evia and Attica are really a challenge for the thousands of people who have been mourning their own losses, burned houses and property. It is the blackprint of chronic criminal indifference, the lack of an integrated anti-nuclear protection plan. And this - we repeat - is equally burdened by the New Democracy, SYRIZA and KINAL - PASOK. From 1998 to today we had more than six million acres of burnt forest wealth and two hundred and twenty-seven dead. Not to remind what corresponds to the governance of PASOK, what corresponds to the governments of the New Democracy and SYRIZA. This year it burned about 1,300,000 acres of land. Since 1995, all your prefectures and the New Democracy and SYRIZA and PASOK have failed to deal with the great problems of civil protection, provocatively without regard for human life and the environment. And you know why? Not because you are incapable of being counted against you by SYRIZA, but because all legislative interventions, although you appear to be innovative, have as their basis the repression and management of the disaster that costs less than prevention. Human life and the natural environment are entering the cost-benefit balance, as proved by the pandemic, the government's refusal to take substantial measures to shield public health. This is the core of the policy promoted by the European Union in the field of forests, the environment, civil protection and exploitation as a means of developing the profitability of business groups. The measures announced for the firefighters are not just inadequate, but are far from complete bypass from the size of the disaster and the consequences they have suffered in order to get through to this difficult situation and given that for a long time many of them are not going to have any income, while several of them have been homeless. The legislative act we are debating is a mockery and a challenge for the people who rightly react to the affected. Nothing less can be tolerated by the rapid direct and universal 100% compensation for all firefighting, for all and without any hindrance, with full cancellation of public debts, to banks, to insurance companies. In total, permanent and adequate measures are needed to ensure a permanent job with wages and rights for retinas, income to farmers self-employed and to all workers in each affected area. On the other hand, the rapid restoration of the natural environment, as stated in the legislative act - and that is what you are interested in - will have the seal of investors on the protection of the environment and the restoration of ecosystems which are always based on green growth, that is to say on the green bishops of the large groups. I would remind you of No 4662/20 on Civil Protection. And then, as in any such legislative initiative, the JRC warned that the direction of repression, disaster management and not prevention would be disastrous. You're your hawa! The consequences of the constantly falling funding from the state budget for studies, required projects and infrastructures will be disastrous for adequate anti-nuclear, anti-military and anti-Semitism protection. You're still your hawk! The Civil Protection Services, the Fire Force, the Forest Service, the relevant municipalities and regions have been further weakened in staff, facilities, equipment and other infrastructure and all in the logic of cost-benefit. This 2020 law on the disaster prevention plan says it takes into account the resources, i.e. the costs associated with the other policies of the State. What are these policies? It is the capitalist development that, of course, you are all inclined to see, regulations that result in mathematical accuracy in privatising civil protection and prevention by direct connection, as provided for in the law, of the official state structure with private bodies, in the construction of fire-safety infrastructures with public-private partnerships, by compensation for the provision of services and the provision of staff and means with tariffs for each hour of use in business groups operating airports, motorways, ports, networks, special facilities and even by consideration or provision in kind. It is characteristic that Article 6 of this Law on business groups of contractors where the reafforestation programme itself acts as a profit-making tool with their reafforestations or parts thereof is given through public-private partnerships through studies and projects, not through the Forest Service, but by various good institutions. As he says: Rehabilitators may be designated legal persons governed by public and private law regardless of whether they are speculative or non-profit-making, i.e. measures which have already been legislated since previous years and are currently specified by this legislative act. I mean, the occasion was missing. So fires and floods are not the result of any carelessness or divine punishment. They are the achievements of the capitalist economy and the commercialisation of everything in the interests of the great interests. And when crime is repeated, that's not just a coincidence. There was no justification for such a disaster. This disaster could have been prevented if the necessary prevention measures were in place and not leave the people to the mercy of these phenomena. Because of the fact that we do not live in the prehistoric or the period when people lived in shackles of straw huts, you should stop treating the people as being directed to natives. The people are neither fatal nor awkward. He realizes that his opponent is not the climate and the weather. So he can understand that his real opponent is the same capitalism that prevents us from living as we deserve. So man today, with modern scientific methods, with his technology, can greatly tame nature, not destroy it, but exploit it, make it an ally, and protect human life, to develop and satisfy modern needs. For the people it is a one-way choice of a radically different development path that will not serve profit, but modern people's needs, simply requires other power, folk with centralized planning and social control. On this road with the people he can walk and walk because only the people can save the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Mr. Synergy. Mr. Socrates Famelos is called at the forefront by SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Undersecretary, today we have lived another day to reap Mr Mitsotakis and his government. To erase the responsibilities of the fires, for this biblical destruction of a million three hundred thousand acres, he announced a remodelling. On the first day he was finally unable to do it, although he was announced, because very simply there were interests that were pressing, there were ministers and MPs who refused to accept changes or ministries and there were too many pressures. When Mr Mitsotakis finally managed to make this announced remodeling, he announced a remodeling of fiasco, after finding them with the financial fireplaces possibly as well as the publishers. And yet I think we have the first incident of a new ministry minister - and importantly, on civil protection - who refused to swear, even though the Prime Minister announced it. It is unprecedented, which exposes Mr Mitsotakis himself and creates a serious problem of the Prime Minister's adequacy. How will Greek society trust Mr. Mitsotakis? How will he represent our country abroad? How will it manage the crises, such as the environment, but also the health that we live in? And who are ultimately the winners of this reshape? The far right. All LAOS executives have become central ministers with you. Do you enjoy it? Are you happy about this? Mr. Georgiadis, Mr. Voridis, Mr. Plearis. Is this the New Democracy? Is that your delivery? We have nothing to say because we have been aware of the extreme right-wing turn that has taken place in New Democracy for several years. But you also participate in something that should not be left without talking about it in the Chamber. Without the presence of women in the ministerial arrangement - the number of women, who were already degraded - without the region's presence - with the downgraded Thessaloniki, say this - and the Prime Minister's admission that it was a mistake to the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Civil and Political Protection and the Ministry of Tourism. And you come here today, while the Prime Minister himself expelled the "Minister of Mania" Mr Chrysochide, tell us again that you did everything well, as the Prime Minister said last week? The reshaping confirmed the serious problems that existed both in civil protection and in the question of fire and firefighting. He changed the appropriate ministers. We must, however, say that one of the main causes of the destructiveness and the size of the forest fires in August was the lack of forestry policy and the deterioration of forestry services by the New Democracy. The New Democracy and Mr. Mitsotakis personally is responsible for the three hundred thousand acres of burnt land in Greece. A biblical disaster with very negative consequences, environmental, economic and social consequences. I read from the publications of the European information system on forest fires that our country, despite an increase of only 43% in the number of fires, had an increase of 500% over the period 2008-2020, from the Europeans of the burned areas. In fact, this 500% increase is compared with the second European country, Italy, which is 260%. In addition to increasing the burnt areas, however, we have to say that our country still has a sad record. The average burned area per forest fire in Greece amounts to nineteen thousand acres in 1921, when it was under five thousand acres until last year, an average of fifteen years, and while I see that the next European country is Cyprus at six thousand acres. This is all with the signature of Mr. Mitsotakis and New Democracy. Do not hide behind the candy of the climate crisis. The climate crisis is not an excuse. The climate crisis is the reason why you should be better prepared. The heat chilling, the drought, were already announced by scientists and the environment and meteorology. You do not take these into account, because you canceled prevention policies, canceled the political cooperation between forest services and firefighting, even canceled the volunteering of the citizens who wanted to save their land. This is the cause of the disaster. Your refusal to prepare and this is the signature of Mr. Mitsotakis. The deterioration of the Forest Services is also seen by the act of legislation. Where was the original act of legislation on 5 August - I think 2 of the month - the major fires began, three days later, namely - that forestry services should not be recorded as services carrying out the work of the operation? And they came on August 13, with a second act, to change it. In other words, in the first act of legislation, the authorities responsible for forests have forgotten. Not contained. The second strange thing is that by decision of the State Secretary, two or three days after the start of the fires, on August 6, on Friday, they banned the entry of Forest Services, Guardian, logging, and forest land. And they came and corrected the wrong few days later, August 9th. I honestly wonder why the Ministry of the Environment today came to defend an act of legislation in which it proved to be not part of its pension? What are you really doing here? The act was written with police measures, only to create impressions, without a scientific background. And we come today and we change all of this so that with many corrections we can cover, at least, the contractual obligations of science. Not to mention what was revealed this week, it was three months ago and in Gerranea it was not finally published, last week, the declaration as a resurrecting land. Not to mention the loopholes you create for private individuals, the anti-military works that will be licensed by individuals and the whole story of artificial reafforestation that I want to clear up. Don't dare put a hand in the hybrid recovery fund's money, with foreign supplies and licenses that won't come out of the forest services and without executives. Take note of this because it is going to be a lot of fun in the debate. But what has been done with the act of legislation? The Forest Services were transferred to the Ministry of the Environment, while the forest strategy said that - the verticalisation - since 2018. He said, however, that "with staff and funding". So without studying it for two years, to do so properly as planned by the SYRIZA government strategy, cutting jobs and funding, they come and announce it, so as a fireplace, to cover the responsibilities of forest fires. And I ask you quite simply: why did you not come out and defend them when Mr. Patoulis accused the Forest Fire Services? Why did the Prime Minister say from here the Step forward that fire prevention is a matter for civil protection, did you not come out to say anything? Is prevention prevention in Forestry at all? Because we see many projects being awarded by Civil Protection with opaque and curious budgets for forest land, without approval from the Forest Services and saying nothing. This is a downgrade of the Forest Services and you are responsible. Let us try with Article 4 to bypass the Forest Services even the Union Law on the awards of studies and projects for forestry. Legislative act is shaky, defects and pretexts. Even in the amendment on the TEN that you have passed, for the overtime of the workshops that have actually fought with the fires, they have forgotten about the overtime of "January", they have forgotten about the overtime of "Medea", they have forgotten the overtime for the Megalopolis and may have put in and nothing "Blue children" after they have abolished the compensation cap. Only for technical staff, Minister, can we discuss the other naturalities, if you really want to pursue a policy for the benefit of the workers. However, the deficit created by the New Democracy in prevention was the main problem that caused the fires. Let's just say it: The New Democracy and its Ministers at the Ministry of the Environment have frozen five hundred hirings of foresters and foresters at the Ministry of the Environment in Forest Services, approved by FEK of 2019. Secondly, they stopped the Forest Protection Programme, implemented by the SYRIZA Government in collaboration with the Ministry of the Environment with the Ministry of Labour and expelled five thousand workers who were in the forests of our country and helped and clean up anti-nuclear zones, roads, dry and all - as much as they could - fuel. Thirdly, they did not implement the fire prevention policy that it also had FEK in 2019 and had a budget of EUR 140 million and was part of the policy to prevent the forest strategy. And fourthly, they did not go ahead with a very critical tool that we will miss and hopefully do not miss in the future, the plans for dealing with forest fires and preventing in the mixed forest - housing area, where Greece is hurting and where the Goldamer conclusion was said to be accelerating. The result. The New Democracy is responsible for accumulating fuel in the country's forests and why the country's forests were out of management. And that is the basic political responsibility you have taken and charged after August's catastrophic disaster. Because you have been underfunding the Forest Services, you have canceled the forest maps, you are constantly struggling with exceptions from forestry legislation. We had Law 4685, the anti-environmental law of Hatzidakis, we had Article 218 of Adoni Georgiadis who took responsibility for NATURA areas, now we have a bill that disputes both the management of the saint and the management of the coastal zone in a post. And I wonder: does the Ministry of the Environment not have an opinion on the new anti-environmental plans Georgiadis against and the altar that wants to give him to strategic investments? The Ministerial Decision on the Cooperation of Forestry Services and Firefighting did not apply. Regional plans for adaptation to climate change do not go ahead. So the New Democracy is responsible for the fact that our society is not being resilient. It has been legislated since 2016. The regional plans were financed and went on as far as we were in government. This delays important tools while the New Democracy even suspends its own Civil Protection Act. Otherwise, by communication, thank God. Civil protection without authority intervenes in the functions of Forestry and announces. And you didn't say anything about it. We're charging it to you. On 23 March it announces, firstly, the strengthening of air means more than at any time. On 24 May Mr Mitsotakis himself announces that we have the best possible preparation. On 15 June the Ministers for Civil Protection announced a new prevention plan, not the Ministry of the Environment and Energy. On 3 August, the first day after Varube, we were told that they were ready and had effective cooperation. The next day the fire was resurrected and almost burned all north Attica. Seeing the beauties all over Greece, Greek citizens have understood how false a policy New Democracy has. The New Democracy leaves us every day exposed. It reduces the powers of the Greek state. It makes the Greek state weak at all levels of public policies. That's what New Democracy wants.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u87	Please hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u88	I'm closing, Mr. President. He wants a state that does not take responsibility for the citizens and says it is all personal responsibility. It will invoke the individual responsibility of the citizen to unleash the property of the Greek state from behind. This policy that New Democracy has no principles, no ideology, no sacred and loyal, all they care about is having a chair and sharing jobs with their friends. They do not care about democracy, the environment, forests, citizens' property or the work of citizens. Just the chair to play games. And that's why when you fall out of this chair, because you're arrogant and arrogant, you'll make a lot of noise because the Greek people will throw you out of this hollow chair of power. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, too. Mr. Efstathos Konstantinides from New Democracy will be given the floor, then the Deputy Minister, George Amyras, will take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u90	Thank you very much, Mr President, Minister, Secretary-General, ladies and gentlemen, a recommendation to legislate on the recent dramatic events of the widespread fires in the country can only begin with the expression of due respect and support for the people concerned who have lost their lives and those who have suffered damage to their health, their property and their professional activity. It does not have to be an expert or have all the data available to understand the difficulty in dealing with the multi-frontal attack that the country has taken over the previous period. Hundreds of fires almost simultaneously, other than arsons, other than negligence, perhaps some of accidental events. However, there are competent authorities and agencies to tell us about these and they must do their duty not only to establish a sense of justice in society but also to provide the conclusions of these research indicators for effective prevention and response to such situations in the future. Regardless of the investigations, what one can surely say is that the state, as in the pandemic, promoted - and rightly - human health and human life. It is also a question of supreme goods and absolute criteria. What we must also record and be guided by the next steps is, however, that the climate crisis is added to the traditional enemies of the Greek forests, since we are already going through the climate change's consequences with the appearance of intense and unprecedented weather phenomena. The protracted heat heat with temperatures near 45 degrees Celsius was not the flame, but it was definitely the torch. And that's no excuse. We had not seen such warmth for decades, even in the northern and mainland parts of the country, such as my prefecture, Kozanis. These conditions certainly exacerbated the problem, made our barbecue forests, in the commonly known and certainly even more difficult. Such situations, however, also experienced other countries with many consequences and victims. Countries with strong systems, with recognised quality in their infrastructures, with abundant means and equipment, have proved unable to cope with natural change. Killing floods, hurricanes. The evidence is that such weather events will be repeated and may be intensified in the future. But the recording of this generalised and inexistent reality is not an alibi, much more than a cause for reassurance in the face of the unspeakable forces of nature. The opposite is true. A plan, direct and medium-term objectives to strengthen preventive and deterrent forces is needed to restore forests and ecological damage caused, in general, to heal the wounds, support citizens, professionals, producers, the educational community, people who have been hospitalized or have suffered more serious damage to their health. Part of this plan, the immediate measures to address this crisis are included in the legislative acts to be ratified with a tangible result for those affected, regardless of the opposition. I think everyone recognises the government's readiness to take measures, to relieve our fellow citizens and to plan for the rapid and sustainable reconstruction of the affected areas. In summary, the abbreviation of the time limits for declaring land as reforestation, the transfer to the Ministry of the Environment and Energy of all the competences and personnel of the Forest Services by decentralised administrations, the introduction of the institution of the restoration and reafforestation contractor by a legal person governed by public law or private law of a speculative or non-profit nature for the preparation of a study and the implementation of anti-corrosion and reforestation works at the expense of the contractor. The creation of an electronic platform in the context of state aid for the faster and better service of citizens. The introduction of aid for damages to professional establishments, homes and other buildings, construction, farms, or for the treatment of the injuries of our fellow people who will be tax-free, unregulated and unregulated, and will not be counted on income criteria and the payment of social or prostitutional benefits. The exemption from HNVIA for the years 2021-022-2023 of property in the affected areas under the conditions laid down by law. The provision of additional assistance to enterprises and employees of students and students. All this is a package of immediate and substantial measures to halt the impact of destructive fires. In conclusion, I, too, would like to thank the uniforms and non-officials, but also the foreign missions that have helped them to promote the bravery and service of duty by self-renunciation. I should also like to thank the volunteers who once again made us feel the high feeling of solidarity that distinguishes our society. Especially the many businesses and institutions and my individual citizens from the Regional Unit of Kozani who took the lead in this effort and made us proud. We are therefore voting in favour of support measures and expect multiple interventions and institutional facilities, as we did for the gold in Halkidiki or for the start of work on the Greek, the forthcoming legislative initiative on a fair development transition to western Macedonia, and in particular the Kozani Prefecture, which has suffered huge ecological catastrophe in the lignite phase and is threatened with corresponding economic and social damage to the phase of ligniteification. Unfortunately, in all of this, the Civic Opposition remains locked in its contradictions. On the one hand, it calls for support for citizens and when they come here to legislate, it votes against them, as it also voted against the Recovery Fund provisions - in fact it did not vote for them - which provided for strong economic and political support in the country, as it does today which, while calling for consensus, does not defend the proposal for a consensual choice of a person leading civil protection in the country. Incapacitated in your contradictions, there you will remain, alone watching the country go forward and you hope for the worst. But he's not coming. The development will come, the improvement will come, the response will come to these phenomena, because there is will, plan and determination. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Mr Constantinidis. The State Secretary for Environmental Protection, Mr George Amyras, is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the country has experienced a great, unprecedented disaster from these great fires which have recently erupted in northern Evia, Attica, Elias, Messinia and other regions. Regardless of whether there are incidental events or arsons - the cases are, moreover, the investigations by the Fire Service - the size and difficulty of firing fires are due, such as scientists categorically and with documentation, to the extreme high temperatures and the prolonged drought of vegetation and soils. They all now recognise that climate change is not a scientific fiction scenario, a future conspiracy theory, but it is present and it is now much earlier than we expected in Greece, not only in Greece, but throughout the planet, of course, from the negatives of the climate crisis, who - o of the miracle - coincide with the vaccine-negatives, and they are the ones who move all these fast news and the wind turbulence scenarios for wind turbulents and burnt areas, but I will speak a little below. You saw that in Siberia this year we had fires after the temperature in the area reached 48 degrees Celsius. Siberia! We saw in California what happened. We have also seen Australia with the huge fires that have plagued it over the past two or three years, but also what is happening in our neighbourhood in the Mediterranean. So the question is one and simple: How will the climate crisis be tackled? We in the Ministry of the Environment for a long time have stopped talking about climate change and have put in our vocabulary the term 'climate crisis', because we are talking about a crisis and this is a very big one. However, the climate crisis is certainly not going to be tackled on a micro-party basis, such as the one we hear periodically here by some SYRIZA MPs, nor, of course, will the climate crisis be abolished by a law and an article, despite the fact that SYRIZA has a worldhow, a know-how quite specialized in "one law and one article" to do the impossible and of course never done anything. The Greek state, therefore, has no choice but to adapt to the new and particularly demanding conditions of the climate crisis. We owe it to our fellow citizens who have been tested in these fires, who have lost their properties, who have burned their fields, their house, their properties, their jobs. We owe it very clearly and to all the people who have lost their lives from fires in recent years. See Matty. We owe it above all to future generations in the future. The legislative act that this House will today ratify has the first, but not the only, steps to address these problems which the climate crisis brings and are not the ones that are very clear, firstly, alleviate the people who have suffered all the consequences of these fires, but they also lay the first foundations, the first lines for a intrinsic and intrinsic protection of our biodiversity, our wonderful natural landscapes, the wealth of nature, as our parliamentary representative, Mr Brutsis, described earlier. One of the elements is that any forest land which is destroyed by fire or other cause will now be declared by the act of legislation that we will ratify resurrected in thirty days and not in ninety days, as has been the case so far. We are not going to let any bishops play a game on the burnt land. And I'm sorry I heard SYRIZA officials, but even MPs, talking about linking fires to wind turbines. Besides these theories are really shallow, cages and toxic, they are completely out of place and time. Do you not know any of you in SYRIZA, ladies and gentlemen, that forty-two years under article 53 of Law 998/1979 is the possibility of wind turbines being installed in forests and forests and in grassland and rocky areas? It doesn't have to burn a forest to get a windmill in. The opposite happens. When an area is burned because of the obligation, of course, directly to preach itself as a reservoir, but also because of the environmental burden, it is much more difficult to approve a study of environmental conditions for wind turbines. In addition, we are speeding up the visa and approval of studies for specific forestry projects, such as anti-corrosions, anti-milling and, of course, reafforestations in second time. We set out clear details so that technical issues do not arise before us as obstacles and public administration can move without bureaucracy to the intended objective, which is to protect, restore and regenerate the natural environment which has suffered damage or damage from a fire. Also, anti-corrosion works, studs, corrugateds, all the first work on land retention is done thanks to this act of legislation that we will ratify directly to whom you say? Any multinationals? Not in forest cooperatives, forest cooperatives in Evia, for example. So I do not know whether you, colleagues of the SYRIZA, will vote against this regulation, especially from Evia. The Minister, Mr. Screkas, has already announced and signed the financial support of 700 thousand euros for the forest cooperatives in northern Evia, for ten forest cooperatives, seven in Lake, three in Istia and twenty-four forced forest cooperatives. They will receive EUR 20,000 to EUR 40,000 for first costs - depending on their members - for their very fast, direct costs to replace equipment, if they have been destroyed, to put gas. Will you not vote for this, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, and especially you Evia Members? You do not want to vote on it, rather, and I am sorry that you will do that if you do so. We, too, have started immediately in cooperation with the municipalities, regions, the discard projects of the existing burnt trees, immediately. Work is taking place at the moment when we are talking on too many points, particularly in the similar areas of the burnt areas. We are also simplifying the authorisation procedure for the disposal of burnt trees within private areas. It's a simplified procedure. If within twenty days the Forest Service fails to respond to the request of the individual who wants to remove the burnt trees from his courtyard, it is considered to have given her consent and the individual can proceed. We will do the same for not only the areas that require acceptance of burnt trees, but also for a circular that we will directly get to the forest services so that by a similar procedure - express, simplicity and transparency, electronically, it will facilitate the individuals who want to weep their trees. We know the sirial, which lasted decades, and SYRIZA, which is cut for forestry policy, did not take care of it: the citizen, the man who has a pine in his yard, who wants a trimming, wants a perfume. And yet, so far, you haven't even taken care of that. It is one of the many small issues that we will take care of, because many small, in our view, make a great deal of money. Now I come to the new institution of the reafforestation contractor. Here, even though we have heard things - let us say something else - for elsewhere, completely incomprehensible, really. I have heard Mr. Apostle say that the contractor will stop the natural regeneration of the forest so that he can intervene and succeed or not succeed in reafforestation. Who says that, Mr. Comrade? Will the forest service be always present, at every step of the reafforestation contractor, who is the reafforestator of what he does? He pays the studies, pays the anti-corrosion works, always with permissions that the office will give him. Of course, you underestimate the scientists of forest services who are not one government or another. They are the people who either have one government or the other, who are there as a sacred public duty to defend the forest. They know and will tell us where natural regeneration exists on scientific criteria and we will leave nature there to come back and where it cannot come back, there will be artificial reafforestation. But I don't understand why you see things so shallow. You're almost unscrupulous when, in fact, you're being stoned by the sponsorship institution. The sponsorship institution has deep roots in Greece. From the time of Klisthei to the era of Pericles, which reached its peak, we reached the point, the sponsorship to take the form of national benefactivity in the later years: Averof, Tositsas, Rizzaris, Stournaris were written in the history of the country with gold letters. Such national benefit, in essence, is also the institution of the afforestation contractor. A good colleague, Mr. Mylonakis, from the Greek Solution, paid particular attention to the question of mixed areas, that is, where either the forest enters the settlement or the settlement meets the forest. We have discussed it at the Ministry of the Environment for months - not now after the fires - just to see how we will shield the settlements with artificial reafforestation - plantations with broadleaf, with fire trees so that we have a natural wall around the settlements. These are things that we have studied and progressed. Of course, we are also well integrated in the national reafforestations plan financed with 200 million from the Recovery Fund and according to which we were ready. Of course, we will now make very clear the differences depending on where we can help, which we must help regions that have been burned and cannot come back with natural regeneration. There, then, there is the planting of twenty - million trees, at least sixty - five to two thousand acres. I come to the matter of forest maps. The forest maps are a great and valuable tool and I have heard my dear colleague Mr Famello say again an inaccurate one. He said that the forest maps, which the SYRIZA government had had on its day, uploaded and ratified, abolished - says - the New Democracy Government. No, no, no, no, It is the Council of State that threw SYRIZA's law on forest maps and on housing densities and on the acquisition of the landed and, indeed, they were decisions of the Council of State. What did we do? We took the thread from where the SYRIZA government had left it, and we have posted forest maps for 95% of Greek territory. Thanks to these forest maps, which our Government has built up, we can properly demarcate the burnt areas from their unburned and unburned characters. Also, a great and important step forward in relation to forest maps is the resolution of one of the many unsolved and unsolved problems, such as ownership. Where does the presumption of State ownership apply and where does the presumption of State ownership not apply? We have given a solution both for the Cyclades and for the Dodecanese and for the Ionian and for the Eastern and Western Mani and for Samos, Chios, Lesvos. You have not dared to touch these issues, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. But we did so with seriousness, simplicity and efficiency. I'm coming to the Benoit Commission. In fact, here I see a huge difference of views between the Evia MPs of SYRIZA. Mr Hatzigiannakis said that we welcome the Benos Commission and we will contribute with proposals, and the other Evian MEP of the SYRIZA Mr Apostolos has paid off - and I am very sorry - the work and the prospect of the work of the Stavros Benos Commission.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u93	Be accurate!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u94	I heard you, Mr. Colleague, I was here. Does Stavros Benos look like a far right-wing man, Mr. Famele, who made crowns about the government's extreme right-wing government? But you know well from the extreme right. For four and a half years you have managed with ANELs, the far right-wing far-rights. Hand-hand you go. We were here in the same rooms. You were voting together, you were yelling and you arrived where you arrived. I am going to run the other legislative measures that SYRIZA will be voting against, for example, the unemployment subsidy for workers in companies who have been destroyed, such as the possibility of transferring the students affected to a corresponding school - part of an EMI located in the nearest residence of their own or a relative of their first grades. They will vote against this. They will vote against the exemption from ENVY for the years 2021, 2022 and 2023 of property classified as dangerous or inappropriate for use. They will also vote against - it seems to me how the Evia MPs of the SYRIZA will do this - the support we give to the rhetoric collectors in Northern Evia, the EUR 3.7 million that come to be added as extraordinary funding to the EUR 2.3 million that we are certainly giving them for the work they had done last year in the woods. It will also vote against the irreversible payments of resin workers from the public sector. They'll vote against everything in SYRIZA because they're looking at the tree and they're losing the forest. That's what they do! At this point I would also like to thank the firefighters in particular...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u95	You're the ones who burned the woods!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u96	Please! This is what you are closing down, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u97	Colleague, I would have been much more restrained, and I would not have dared to make crowns with the history of your administration in the great tragedy of 2018. I wouldn't get out, not yell!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u98	And please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u99	Yes, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Greek and foreign firefighters, servants and volunteers. I would like to thank the workers, the officials, the forest service officials. They were on the front line, gave a solution at the time of the danger. I would of course like to thank the citizens who have helped, in every way, to extinguish the fires, all by self-determination. I would also like to thank the non-profit organizations that took care of the animals at risk, which were damaged and damaged, such as the Greek Voluntary Veterinary Action, the non-profit organisation 'Dogs' voice', as well as the organization stray.gr. They set up two first aid stations - I would say - as small hospitals for animals in the former Gatsius quarry and in Tatoi Street. Of course, to express my deep grief and condolences to the family of volunteer fireman Vasilis Philaras, who lost his life on the fire front. Ladies and gentlemen, I could tell you a great deal. I could tell you about the anti-nuclear protection programmes that Mr Skreka has included in the rural development programme, namely the PAA, sub-measures 8.3 and 8.4 EUR 80 million for fire protection and management studies on forests. We did it long before the fires and from time to time when the works start to render, you will see the difference. Let me inform you that for the Lake Forestry - with an excellent master, who is competent - nine proposals for forest protection have already been auctioned in Lake and forest restoration. There are twenty - two projects in maturity of tenders, thirty - one in preparation of works and sixty - two next in the next period, a total of sixteen projects worth 79,500,000 euros. We have worked on this at the Ministry of the Environment for a long time and have clearly been of value. By ending up...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u100	Shut up with this.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u101	Mr President, I beg your pardon, but this is a very special matter, you understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u102	Let us also speak, Mr President, twice a year!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u103	In conclusion, I would like to refer to the most important commitment to the environmental policy of the Mitsotakis Government, which is national climate law. I hope that you are not absent from there, ladies and gentlemen, particularly from the Staff Regulations. This is the first climate law from a recommendation, the establishment of the Greek state, in order to co-operate with the great European target for zero carbon emissions by 2050. We are taking the first step and we will go to the end with consultation of civil society, with scientists, with institutions, with all those who are interested, to leave a natural environment better than what we have found. It is time to tackle the climate crisis together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u105	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u106	No, the Parliamentary, Mr. Apostle. You'll tell your dentist, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u107	Look, not that I have a problem, just to restore things.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u108	No, please, you'll tell your dentistry. Now, if he wants to, Mr. Chakalotos to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u109	Why would the Minister say... I'll answer in a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u110	You're not right, Mr. Apostleu. I understand you're from Evia, I understand all that. I know you're drowning. In your dentistry, please, unless Mr. Chakalotos wants to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u111	One second, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u112	He'll answer later. Mr. Darkness and Mrs. Fotio...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u113	Mr President, lies have been made about him!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u114	I'm doing it for you, Mr. Darkness, you protest!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u115	Mr President, I have no problem with it. It's just not true.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u116	Good, tell me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u117	I did not undermine - but I do not have a problem - and with his tactic he undermines Mr Beno himself. Do you understand? When it comes to a society, particularly at the moment it has been affected, it is expressing such views.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u118	Can you accept the Benu Commission? Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u119	Well, that's what I wanted to avoid, please. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u120	Is it a simple question, Mr Apostle: Do you accept, do you support the work that the Benou Group will do, yes or no? Everything else is middle-class. Yes or no?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u121	What does that have to do with what he said now with the other one that he said before, that I undermined? Who told him that...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u122	No, please, Mr. Apostle. Thank you very much. Here, Mr. Papaliou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u123	You're not answering. Yes or no?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u124	Do you understand? He's undermining! What a stop our party will take, what a stop I take is...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u125	He's asking for an answer, though. Mr. Undersecretary, please. Mr. Georgios Papaliou is called at Stepma by SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance and I will then give the floor to the Parliamentary Representative of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Karathanasopoulos. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u126	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as much and inaccurate as the Minister of State has said, I would just like to make two remarks. The performance, Mr Secretary-General, of the causes of the biblical disaster suffered by large regions in the country this year, the climate crisis and the reference to the fires in Siberia, California, is intended to conceal the major government responsibilities and the challenge - because there was no prevention policy - and also to make the fires in these areas. The second point I would like to make is that you have declared private-law legal persons - indeed it may also be speculative - who will be appointed rehabilitators for the restoration and reforestation of public forest land declared reforestation in national benefactors. What can we say? Congratulations. Ladies and gentlemen, the current draft law concerns the ratification of two acts of legislation, the title of which once again creates false impressions, since the emergency measures provided for are neither effective nor at the necessary speed are taken, and above all, do not concern all the areas affected by the fires. From my homeland parts of Gortynia and Megalopolis are excluded, stay out. I shall therefore concentrate my position on the fires that have hit areas of Gortinia and Megalopolis in the Prefecture of Arcadia and which have hit them enormously. There is no need to mention that there was no prevention policy. Let's not forget that in September 2019, they ceased to be employed, they were fired by your Government of a hundred nine employees in Fire Protection in Arcadia and the result was seen with the recent fires. There is no need, therefore, to mention that there has been no prevention policy and that the response to fires in the field has been - to say it politely - flawed. Ophthalmophane was the lack of organization and coordination, retarded, pointless and limited use of ground and, above all, air means, and the tactical evacuations of villages and settlements - rightly the removal of residents - which, according to this government, became culture!- Oh, my God! In addition to the political feasibility that was undercover and which became apparent to the inhabitants of the affected areas immediately, it was also operationally incorrect. This is because without the partnership and participation of the locals and volunteers who know the spaces in the villages, the settlements and the mountains, such as in the palm of their hands and the psychology that they defend their village and home, the salvation of villages and houses would not be possible. Ultimately, the indiscipline of these people who did not leave has not prevented further disasters, has saved villages and homes. The areas of Gortini and Megalopoli are the most disadvantaged areas of Arcadia, if not the Peloponnese. Their permanent residents are few and old, dealing with the cultivation of olives by farming ovine and caprine animals and apiculture. The return to full development of these activities will require time and resources that the state must make available. In addition, enterprises in these areas are linked to rural activities. There are mills, cheese shops and therefore special care is needed for them, as well as for local catering shops, since it is known that the presence of the café in a village is important for the very existence of the village and its people. The damage caused by the fires has been such that the income of the firefighting inhabitants in these areas has been zeroed. The limited, inadequate support measures decided on for Evia - that is what you told us and this is included in the MDGs - are extended beyond Evia to areas such as Gortynia and Megalopolis. In this respect, it is understandable why the principle of equality and equal treatment are being violated in this clear way. However, the measures must also take into account the specific circumstances which exist, such as the fact that, because of the fragmented lot, they are engaged in agricultural work and in urban centres, from these areas and have been staying for several months in their villages and that complement their income, especially oil. There are two elements that need to be taken into account. On the basis of all this, it is necessary to replace income and ensure an economic basis for all firefighters for as long as necessary with the application of urgent procedures that are consistent with local data and needs, but also with full transparency. In this context, the necessary infrastructure, such as the anti-corrosion projects that should have been launched and completed yesterday, because the dangers are great, the cleansing of the rafts, the opening up of the rural roads, the flooding that will follow, must be entrusted to local people and there must be employment for them. This will ensure the cut-off. The relief measures provided for in legislative acts are not sufficient. It's ash in the eyes. They consist of suspensions of payment of commitments, advances and repayable payments. For the reconstruction and sustainable survival of these areas, the persistence and activity of people in them, specific local development plans are required, with the decisive involvement of the directly concerned. This is because these regions both in Gothenburg and Megalopolis have comparative advantages and therefore prospects of relocation. The way to deal with the catastrophic fires in these areas and also in general, highlighted the weaknesses and inability of the Greek state under the rule of New Democracy and the power of the local communities of the Greek region, in this case Gortynia and Megalopolis. Locals and volunteers, in cooperation with firefighters and local government forces, demonstrated abilities, soul power and solidarity. All this marks the future of regions, which may be based on their people, together with their comparative advantages. However, the state must do its duty. This is not the case with the policy of your government, Minister, Deputy Minister, gentlemen of the New Democracy, and citizens cannot have'strategic patience', as the Prime Minister said. I would like to make another comment on the Ministerial Amendment, which you have tabled, which concerns compensation for overtime workers in the IEDC, by way of derogation from the provisions on the maximum salary. For them, for reasons of justice, they must be included for the identity of the speech and for the first-line workers who have contributed to the restoration of the network and for the equivalent of the employees of the “Linistic Megalopolis S.A.” who worked in Unit III of Megalopolis. It is known that this plant has again been put into operation, such as, without environmental measures, such as the activation of desulphurisation during the heat season, due to the resulting problems of energy adequacy and balance of the system that has arisen. Workers who have worked during this period must also be compensated for their overtime, because they have been looking to maintain the stability of the energy system. It is an issue that has arisen and has to worry about your Government, in order to revise your decision, Ministers, for violent frustration of PPC's Megalopolis units and not just that this violent frustration will lead to total deprivation of the region.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u127	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u128	It takes time to prepare the post-lining period and the government must provide it with local society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, too. The Parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party of Greece Mr Nikos Karathanasopoulos is called in Stepma. Here, Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, Mr President. Really, what is the climate of the inhabitants of the firefighting areas? The JRC's staff have been present in the fields of fires since the first moment. Fire security teams from executives, members, party and CNN fans contributed to the repression of fires. In these contexts and yesterday, a multi-faceted delegation from the JRC headed by the Secretary-General, Mr Dimitris Koutsoubas, we visited the fire-fighting areas in Elia. What did we get from this visit, Ministers? Indignation and indignation we have removed from the world. Anger and indignation about the destructive fires and their consequences for their lives, but also for the false words of the government's great restitution of disasters. They considered the government's responsibilities for the devastating consequences of the fires to be criminal. He invested, they said, the government to not mourn the dead. But this logic has led to the destruction of the life of the fireflies. As the President of the Branch Community, for example, pointed out, we did not have a dead man, but we had a great deal of victims and indeed too much. The beekeeper's representative told us that uncertainty about the future is a slow death. Of course, the residents themselves saved their homes and property, with disobedience to evacuation commands, without substantial help. They were out of anger, because while they still live in the ashes, PPC sends them the bills for the power payment, as the President of the Cladion reported to us. They are out of rage, because they consider the exemption to be a mockery for only three years, as long as their first residence has been burnt, their main residence. I mean, if they didn't ruin their home, why did they save it on their own sacrifice, but their crop was destroyed, how would this world have to pay HNVIA, who can't grow, who can't live? If his home was burned, where he doesn't live, he didn't pay for this house, H.P.I.E.L.D., didn't he pay taxes? Why should it not be exempted from HNVY for this or why should it not be compensated for the restoration of the home as well? The Minister for Finance, speaking a little earlier in this Chamber, listed a number of measures. However, these measures, which he has listed, are just to create impressions, because they are without substance about the situation and the reality experienced by the firemen. It does not respond to their real problems and difficulties, but it wants to develop impressions that the government is sensitive to the problems of fires. Why? It's very obvious. They know it themselves. They know, for example, that the olive growers, whose trees were burned, are being mocked. For example, in one who had fifteen acres of olives, about three hundred trees, what do you say he will get? It will take EUR 2,500 as compensation and EUR 13,500 for four years to restore the trees that have been burnt, i.e. a total of EUR 16,000. The Minister of Finance may not know. Let him ask his colleague, the Ministry of Rural Development, how much this farmer has to pay for security in the four years in ELGA. He has to pay 5,000 euros, and if his wife is insured, another 5,000 euros, or 10,000 euros total. So you tell him that with 16,000 he will restore the trees, he will pay the security, which is 10,000, if they are both in ELGA and at the same time, he will live in his family. Are you serious? The rest of the years, the four to ten, which will fruit and make the first oil his olives, what will he do? What will this world live with? Isn't that a mockery? Don't you tell him "Get up, go away, leave your fields and your crops"? Because he can't survive because he's been destroyed in 2007, he tried to regenerate his place again, he's coming a second curse. Do the livestock farmers, for example, who were freely grazing sheep, do not face the same picture? Now where are they going to feed them? For seven years, free grazing is prohibited. So, feed. That's the cost of who's going to cover it? Can you tell the farmers who will cover for seven years the cost of feedingstuffs so that their herds can live? Oh, no. It's from the government. Can you tell the beekeepers, who will now be forced to save their bees, to take hundreds of miles away so they can find trees so they can produce honey? Oh, no. That's the cost of who's going to cover it? Nobody. Can you say the same thing about resin producers, where you say? You'll get a reward, we'll find social work programs of 534 euros. Or, if you want, you're pushing them to be workers in the wind farms that GEK TERNA will create in the area destroyed by the fires. What kind of compensation will one who has a limo and which has not been damaged by the fire, but for ten years he will not be able to produce at all, because there will be no olive groves in the area? Is this man going to get some kind of compensation? How can his family live? What compensation will a small professional get on tourism and focus? Going to Lala yesterday, on a roof there was a cafeteria. The cafeteria's been saved. It's burnt around. When will it work again? After three to four years, which will somehow grow green. This man, how will he live in his place? Can it live in the next three years, when you cannot go there, why is it a skull place, black and decay? How, in fact, you respond to the secretary of the Pharmaceutical Association of Ilias, who denounced the unacceptable exceptions to communities of the Municipality of Ancient Olympia, which, although they were damaged by the fire, were excluded from the joint ministerial decision. Will you say anything to him? How do you respond to complaints about the priorities for dealing with the fires - such complaints were made in Evia as well in the Peloponnese - when on Thursday 5 August in the morning there was no danger to the archaeological site of Ancient Olympia or to the museum. However, all fire-fighting measures were focused on where there was no danger, resulting in the Helidonion village and the fire to leave and reach Gortynia, while the fire-fighting instruments could have intervened in time - and the air and ground that existed in the area - and had limited the disaster. Because when the Helidon was burned there was not a fire brigade and the fire went up and arrived in Gortynia. So, once again, we have witnessed a timeless crime, a predetermined crime, and here we will say who is responsible. Of course, the current government, which manages this situation, has enormous responsibilities. But let's see: Is the government alone responsible? Is it not a consequence of all that we are experiencing fires, floods and other natural disasters - for example, in fires - the unscientific separation between prevention and treatment? Another agency is responsible for prevention and another agency for repression. Are you serious? Where did you hear that? What scientific manual says that? And yet, that is what the Simitis government did in 1998, the PASOK government, the New Democracy that succeeded it, the PASOK that succeeded New Democracy, the New Democracy - PASOK coup d'état, the SYRIZA government and the New Democracy today. With that logic, what are you doing? First, you are undermining common design. There can be no common design, if anyone else is in the way of prevention and someone else being treated. This, of course, seems to be from the logic that firefighters have no knowledge of the place, even if it is from the area, because they have not dealt with these forests, these forest systems. You are undermining the coordination of all these services, bodies and actions, when it does not have a picture of the prevention measures - if they were taken - by this process which is called upon to deal with fire. This separation of substance leads to the second great responsibility which is shared. Which one? In undermining prevention. All governments, without exception, undermined fire prevention. Minimum money was allocated to forestry services. This year forest services requested 17 million. How much did the government give them? He gave them 1.7 million for some basic cleansing works for the forest, not that they would cleanse the forest and have been abandoned. They have been abandoned for decades, creating huge fuel in the forests when they are not cleaned. Is this the protection of the forest - 'green', as you say - and of the environment? What do all the governments give of the budget? 0,04%. That's how you protect the forests. But, so you put a burrito on the substance in the forests, maintaining a subordinated forest service. Fourth question: Cost-benefit logic, which is the good news of all governments, is the logic of the European Union. It is the official policy of the European Union. What does this European Union's cost-benefit policy say? That the European Union does not finance projects that have no benefit to business groups, do not give profits to business groups, projects that have no contribution to the capitalist development process. That is why, at a pan-European level and in our country, we are being transferred to the good infrastructure projects, which relate to the needs of the people, are related to the protection of their lives, to integrated anti-Semitism projects, integrated anti-military armour, anti-nuclear protection projects. Do you take an example of what is happening in Portugal, Spain or other countries of Europe with the fires that have taken place to justify the government's situation and criminal responsibilities? But the same policy prevails in these countries for the specific infrastructure projects. In this very "protected bed" of cost-benefit has been transferred to the bells, for example, the construction of the Patras to Tower road. Fourth theme: the arson mechanism in the forests. What sets fire to the forests is nothing but the policy of marketing forests and mountainous tumors. This policy together, you all served it, and the current government and the previous governments. So in forests and mountainous tumors they grow wind parks, tourist businesses. The construction industry rubs its hands. Fifth question: The enormous shortages over time in the Fire Service in an inspiring capacity. The average age is too high. How will these workers in the Fire Service be able to deal with the fires and with the enormous shortages they have in human resources, on earth? Because the fire goes off with ground intervention. That's the only way he'll erase the fire. Of course, the sixth major issue is the urban state. SYRIZA, of course, tries to load them into the final state of the New Democracy Government, wishing to cover the fact that both the character of the state and the state of the end is the civil state, which has served over time all governments, a state that has long been very capable of implementing the anti-popular class policy, to smash workers and popular strata, their needs, but also their claims and, at the same time, very incapable, when they have to help to protect public health, in order to protect the lives of the world from natural phenomena. The sixth element of your common perception is compensation to the firemen, to those who have suffered damage. Have you shaped, all governments, a reactive framework with conditions for the damages, with exceptions of whether to be compensated, cuts and pains caught for non-particular farmers who are not compensated or compensated only 50%? But you created this legislative framework. Has the pain caught you that they're only compensated to 80% of the value of the main residence? Your creation, all governments, is and is not enough to cover the costs of re-creating the house and thus resorting to bank lending. Yours are the exceptions for non-compensation in a number of factors in livestock and vegetable capital. You and all the governments, have you voted on them, and today you are saying that they are not being compensated on the substance? However, none of the other parties dares to say that they are compensated for 100% of the losses without conditions, without exceptions, without cutters, for all the losses they have suffered. You are getting to the point where you are convicting the firemen, telling farmers and professionals that you will give them a six-month suspension for the payment of the insurance contribution. All right, are you serious? Will they find out after the money to pay their insurance contributions? The state must, because of the loss of income that farmers and professionals have, cover the insurance contributions. Prolongation, says, suspension of tax obligations. As if they will then be able to pay for it, without income, without resources and without resources, while they cannot even live in their families. The result, therefore, of all these policies, and of the consequences of the fires, but also of the compensation policy, is to continue with the abandonment of crops, the abandonment of villages and the countryside, especially young people, to concentrate the land on less and less hands and to change the use of land. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] So climate change, the climate crisis as you said, Minister, is an alibi to cover your responsibilities. In 1988, which burned 1.5 million acres in Greece, there was also in 1999 that most of the fires all over Greece existed, and in 2000 the largest land burned in our country with 1.6 million acres and in 2007 we mourned hundreds of dead. Now there is. And what measures are you taking to deal with these recurring phenomena both in the fires and in the floods? On the contrary, what do you want to promote? You've been ready for some time. The reconstruction plans for the fire-fighting areas. In Evia, he says in North Evia the reconstruction plan will go ahead and also ask that the members of Elijah also become a similar reconstruction plan in Elijah, which will include what? The plans for the green transition and green investment. Business interests, large business groups will find an opportunity to move their investment plans forward much faster, so that they can really change the place where we have known him. So the business plans will go very fast, and in this direction, of course, the committee headed by Mr Beno or the other that will be set up for Elias for its own reconstruction plan. These reconstruction plans will be at the expense of the people's needs at the expense of the new generation. Of course SYRIZA wants to put back on these plans. Besides, it's convenient to review SYRIZA and the other parties, focusing on the faces. He "requested" them, he says, the two ministers, who were responsible for the reform. So what? This is how the government's responsibilities are covered, or will the situation change? So changing faces will change the government's strategic choices, which are classic, anti-grassroots, anti-agricultural? You want to form an alibi, to say that it is a matter of management and that a better manager that will be able to implement the strategic outputs of capital. Also, you make a false distinction between the compensation to be paid by residents of the firefighting areas of Northern Evia and the residents of the firefighting areas of Elijah and especially Ancient Olympia. That is to say, the inhabitants, the farmers, the resin producers, the beekeepers of Northern Evia are happy to rub their hands out of joy! They did not organize the biggest rally claiming to be able to stay in their place! You say the people of Elijah don't get the same. This separation, however, that you want to do, is just for the world to lose the forest and see the tree. Response to the overall planning of the government and the ruling class is the project of the JRC. What's the JRC's plan? That's very simple. Compensation of 100% for all losses suffered, without conditions, exceptions and cutters. Rehabilitation of lost income, which has lasted for years. Anti-military projects that will be able to shield our regions from flooding. What did the president of Ancient Olympia tell us? It will take 500 grand for flooding and of these 500 grand, the 150 will give it because it does not have a CFP in the machinery that took part in the fire suppression. In other words, 450 grand, which will, of course, be given in retrospect, without the necessary flooding. So we say it clearly. We told it yesterday in the world we met in Elias: 'Don't expect the various protectors to solve your problems'. The problems will be solved by the people themselves. Only the people can save the people, and with their solidarity, the class that is manifested and expressed, but also the demands of the people of the firefighting regions, which is an answer to the climate of charity that is cultivated, but also to the various tips and allowances you want to give them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u131	Mr. Karathanasopoulos, please very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u132	I shall conclude my speech, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u133	Twenty-two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u134	I need a minute. I'm in my time, Mr. President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u135	What time?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u136	Twenty-one minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u137	Twenty-two. All right!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u138	This is where we have...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u139	No, 'we don't have'. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u140	Okay. From this point of view, therefore, we are clearly saying that it must not be settled with these poverty benefits, which are just trying to golden the pill, but more resolutely to organise its struggle, to claim all rights and to satisfy modern needs, so that it can remain in its place, to continue to live there with dignity. This road was shown by the struggling firefighters with the grand rally in the Strait of Evia, but also by the firefighters of Elias with the rally, organized at Elias Tower on Thursday 2 September. The JRC will be there, in small and large struggles, to support the fair demands of workers, farmers and professionals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u141	The next speaker is Mr Panagiotis Skourikos from SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance. Webex talks will follow. Please keep the time. Mr. Darkness, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u142	Thank you, Mr President. Of course, today is the remodelling. Congratulations on remaining in your positions, Minister. Reconstructed by the admiral, he must've shut him up. The bill came under the title “Definition of an act of legislative content “Extreme measures to address the risk of fires”. When one hears him, there's a feeling expressed by a smile of grief. It was difficult this summer to confess. It's hard to test the rulers. Kyriakos Mitsotakis and your Government, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, had reassured us. Your account of all worthy excellences who have predicted and planned their solutions has collapsed. It has been shown that their final plan, stemming from the final state, this final plan, which would have prevented difficult situations, was simply non-existent. In the summer of 2021, it brings thousands of acres of burnt forests, houses and businesses together. From early on, after the catastrophic winter Medea, visiting as a MP who operates in the Eastern Attica region in the most affected areas, Agios Stefano, Dionysus, Aphednes, Hippocrates State, I pointed out that all these trees, which have grown and broke from the weight of the snow, are extremely dangerous for a possible summer fire. They assured us they'd clean up immediately. We saw at the beginning of the summer that the picture had not changed. We talked to institutions and people in the region who all expressed their fear of the situation. So I also used the tool of the parliamentary question. On 2 June, after no anti-nuclear work had yet been launched in the region, I asked the competent ministries to inform us of the reason for not starting the work. I have not received any reply from Mr Hardalia or from you, Mr Skreka. The only update we had was via Facebook how the cleaning works of Parnitha began as well as the ongoing civil protection exercises in the Afidnes area in Deropigi. In the exercises they rated themselves perfectly. But in real circumstances they delivered burnt trees - a million two thousand acres - houses, business and ashes. On Thursday at noon, before they even gave the evacuation of the Hippocrates of State and Dyropigi, I was present, next to the inhabitants of the region, and all they could understand even the most infinite eye to the management of such crises was that there was a total lack of organisation and no preparedness. We were specifically in the position of the Holy Trinity above the Aphednes. We saw in the opposite mountain, far away the green one with small fountains we were just seeing, looking at them. Of course, from the opposite mountain, after the fire ended its destructive work, it also came to the mountain above the Aphednes. The fire passed two municipalities - Acharnon and Dionysus - under conditions of apnea, without stumbling and finally burned Aphednes, Hippocrates State, Drospigi, crossed the National Road to Agios Stefanos, Kadandriti, Polydendri and ended in Malakasa. Mr Andreas Theodorakopoulos' anguish is still ringing in our ears, in order to evacuate the Abednes and the complaint by Vice-President Giorgos Dostis that - and I have indeed seen this - you have brought thousands of policemen, but there were no firefighters, few firefighters. According to the complaints of the voluntary groups, but also of the inhabitants of the regions, nothing worked properly but the evacuation of the villages, but even they were done without any coordination. Due to the interruption of power supply in the area, the fire hydrants were left without water. Why? Because the NSA had no generators in the local facilities in Kadandriti. Is anyone really gonna apologize for that? Is it possible for HICP central installations not to have generators? The necessary fire safety work, such as the opening of agricultural roads, the cleaning of forest areas from the fallen trees, as I said before, had not been done. The Kadriditi Health Center has been closed for the first time since 1982, while the fire has been over four kilometers [4 km] away. All that we are describing, ladies and gentlemen, cannot be corrected by what the Mitsotakis Government has announced as a comfort to the sick. Here we need a major reconstruction plan for the next day, which must be done by a progressive government in cooperation with the local communities. It is necessary to draw up a long-term plan that will be implemented decisively. The Governors and the government that rule the oligarchs of our country have taken their mission as a ruthless journey to power with all problems not broken up but rusted and their failures justified or distanced. Mr. Mitsotakis and his Government are moving in such a ruthless ruthlessness, with no perception of reality. This summer no one has any doubt about the inability of this government and the need to have a new progressive democratic government to get this place, this people one step ahead. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u143	Thank you for the time. We are now continuing with Mr. Panagiotis Kourublis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u144	Mr President, the New Democracy Government, attempting to retain the negative developments in the events that preceded us and related to the fires we experienced, and we are living, and we will live, for many years, an unspeakable disaster in the country, has today attempted with the very mentioned remodelling to change the agenda. And he fell into the pit he created because it precisely attempted with this remodeling to convince that nothing happens with regard to the great catastrophe that Greek society lives in. So it was found in front of unforeseen developments. When the government of SYRIZA, Mr President, placed the Admiral, an excellent officer who trusts his presence, Minister Mitsotakis - as he likes to forget, because this is the case in the Mitsotakis family, that is to say, to forget - he was described as a product of choice of governments in the junta, that this was the same thing as Spandakis. Today, therefore, he asked this man to take over a ministry to deal with this famous crisis that has arisen. Mr President, there are moments in life when we need to remember history. Georgios Papandreou once said in the 1965 apostasy that there are men in public life, there are also a man's as well today Mr. Mitsotakis met a public man who actually showed that he meant the word pride and dignity. Mr President, the government bears heavy responsibility even for acts and omissions, but also for priorities. Because many areas were left in their luck, but even this choice of priorities failed miserably because in the office of the Ministry of Civil Protection there were many short-stayed and politicians and servants speaking. The consequence was not to start a fire, but even worse, not to catch up with the fires. Attica, Mr President, has been burning for nine days with a catastrophic fire. Imagine if we had the western winds in the Eye with that tragic event, that is to say, having ten booms of fire - not air - a hundred miles [20 km]. And yet for me personally, Mr President, the biggest mistake of this government is that it has not learned. It is irresponsible to learn, because it played election and grabbed the election with dominating issues one of which was destruction in Eye. I do have to say that there have also been mistakes. But when you are not taught by mistakes, you make the same mistakes with much greater devastating consequences, since we are the first country in Europe where we have 500% more damaged land. And he had the immoral arrest Mr. Mitsotakis told us that "we count the acres and you count coffins". A politician who respects himself should avoid smuggling. But we don't expect anything else. But he did not tell us about the dignity of thousands of people, including your special homeland, Mr President, Mr Mani, Elias, Evia, Attica and other regions. Of course, Mr Mitsotakis does not know what an olive tree means, Mr President, how you plant it, how much effort and hard work you need to take care of it, to protect it from climate conditions so that it can be fruitful at some point. Until then, it takes ten years. What about these people? Will the government tell us? The government brought a bill in order to actually turn householders into privileged ones. And the mind was aware of what a man from a housewife meant to be paid. "To burn you, my Yannis, - says the people - to lure you oil." Mr President, the government claimed that it saved people's lives by 112. And here, as the experts admit, not me, above all the experts, has become unreasonable. Because, as you and I know, Mr President, in our villages, the first to run on fires to assist the suppression were the fighters of the village. Mr. Mitsotakis prevented that, so the firefighting was forced here, instead of running the fires out in the woods to protect the houses. And here it became aalum throughout this process. And it really gives me the impression, ladies and gentlemen, of the attitude of justice. I knew and know that justice is blind, that is to say it is directed at where it should be without purpose. Today, justice - I am forced to say it, although I respect justice and I know its important role in our lives and society - has been restricted to arson. Isn't justice listening? Does he not see what has arisen from testimony and complaints not only of ordinary citizens who are indignant but of institutional representatives? So we come to the point, Mr President, to denounce this fact and I will file a petition in the next few days, and I will ask Marios Igos to investigate all these complaints about priorities, where they have left areas to burn because they have believed that they will save Athens. But they also saved Athens because, Mr President, the programme of the five thousand people who, through the OAED, took the forests to collect the fuel and the money gave them to 'family' contractors. One of them took over, and Tatoi took over. But Tatoi wasn't saved. But they didn't tell us what treasures were destroyed, those who rescued where they went, where they were. To remind you again that in 1992, 12 dalions were loaded with a decision by the then Prime Minister - the treasures of the Greek people - were illegally given to the gala-blooded. Mr President, the dignity of thousands of people...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u145	Mr. Comrade, please, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u146	Just a minute and I'll close, Mr. President. When Athens was burned by the Persians, Themistoclis asked to leave and then the Athenians answered “How to get away? What dignity will we have without property?’ The government, Mr President, has affected the ultimate right, the absolute highest value of human dignity. They have proved Messiah and not Prophet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u147	Thank you. We're continuing with Mr. Red from SYRIZA. Immediately after that is Mrs. Fotio and Mr. Karasmanis. Here, Mr. Red, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u148	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is worth at least one minute a brief comment on the fiasco with today's remodelling. It gives a different meaning to the word political fiasco what happened today. No matter what background, two are the results, because politics is judged by the result. Firstly, we have despair in politics as an institution of the Prime Minister himself. Secondly - and most importantly - the establishment of a Ministry of Civil Protection has been cancelled or suspended indefinitely, and it turns out that the government's aim was to put its party opponent in a difficult position, because I have heard about consent. Yes, indeed, natural disasters do not have and should not have a party sign. The climate crisis requires new weapons and consent is needed, which is no longer our discretion, but is our self-evident obligation. We all have to understand that, but not with small-scale purposes such as today, because it has proved to be a great deal that the government did not want reform, namely the establishment of the Ministry of Civil Protection, but clearly wanted to put the Civic Anti-Civilisation into trouble. Ladies and gentlemen, after natural disasters, I think that the quote of events, comments, crises, the expression of gratitude, sympathy and solidarity really afflicts those who have been affected. The world is really tired of many - lots of words. Two are the important after natural disasters. Firstly, teaching and, secondly, fair and timely compensation for damage. Unfortunately for you, gentlemen of the government, you have been in power for two years now. From the tragedy in Matty you were taught? The conclusion that was made in February 2019 and was filed here in the House, the President of Parliament, and then the Chief of Staff and current Prime Minister made an obligation to use what did you do it? Is something wrong? What does that prove to be? Turns out you didn't have a plan for the fire extinguisher. Instead, you compared the tragedy in Eye with this year's disaster. Let me say that this comparison was and is vulgar, secondly, it is foolish because there is no human being who will put the property above life, and thirdly, and most importantly, it shows that you did not have a plan for these disasters and that the government instead of apologizing for what was done blames the Opposition on the tragedy in Matti. Ladies and gentlemen, the second and important thing is the fair and timely restoration of damage. From this stepma - if you remember - the Prime Minister, last week with pride, gladly showed to the Greek people and the National Representation a photo. He showed the picture from Damasi Tyrnavos, which was affected on March 3 by the earthquake with the school, which is almost ready and will welcome the students. The school, ladies and gentlemen, was assisted by a private donation - and it did well - and it seems that it will, in fact, be ready. Today, I will show and produce in the Practical Photos, which bear a date three days ago, with the broken houses from Damasi Tyrnavos from the earthquake six months later. That's the first. Secondly, not even the balls, the bricks from the broken houses were not appreciated by this ultimate state to collect. The students will go to a new school, Minister, but they will return to the containers in the cold in the winter. Is that what you call state aid? This - let me, with all due respect - is not called courage? Is this the restoration of the damage that you have now promised to the firemen in Evia, that you will rebuild it? The Prime Minister said: "Don't worry, the houses and all the forests will be made." That restoration he meant, like in Damasy? I present these photos in the Minutes, where you can see completely destroyed houses from the earthquake six months later. Is that what the Prime Minister's going to apologize for? [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassilis Kokkalis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Damage: You still owe money from the floods in Evia. Secondly, 'January': It has been paid to the companies affected by the floods - I mentioned it in a previous bill - only 20%. In Carditsa a hundred and fifty to seventy businesses have not yet received the 8,000 euros. And you know very well that what I'm saying I'm looking for it. Is this the restoration you promised for the firemen in Attica, Elias, Arcadia, Evia? Did you promise this kind of restoration, as you did in Damasy, Mesochori, Farshalla and Cardica? I think you should actually land, leave communication at last for the good of society itself and deal with the substance. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u149	Thank you, too. Mrs Fotou, Mr Panos is asking me for a speech, because he has a speech and is in Webex, if it can be preceded by you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u150	All right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u151	Thank you. Mr. Pana, you have the floor. (... doesn't sound like a bad connection) I guess we're not ready. Mrs. Fotou, come to Stepma and Mr. Panas will be ready and he'll talk later. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u152	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Mitsotakis today, with theheading of Chrysochoidis, Hardalia, considers that he is responding to the anger and despair of society for this tragic August. He considers that he draws out his own responsibilities and the ultimate state he created, exclusively, to serve economic elite, party needs and control his Ministerial Council and his parliamentary group. He believes that we have forgotten the calm, reassuring and self-sufficient Prime Minister telling us in this Chamber less than a week ago that we have done enough that the final state has successfully worked as well. He thinks we've forgotten within a week that he's responsible for the country's largest environmental, forest, rural and residential disaster due to fire. Even today, the New Democracy MPs argue that the many fires are to blame for this tragedy. But the elements of the European Fire Information System disprove them. They record a small increase in fires by 25% and a huge increase in burnt areas of 450%. Our first country, between fifteen Mediterranean countries - sad first - where every fire this year burned twenty thousand square acres, while the average was so far five thousand square metres in twelve years. Of course, if the inhabitants did not take the situation in their hands, the destruction would be multiple. This is an unprecedented European act of disobedience and solidarity to defend their livelihood. To these citizens are the measures you are voting on for yourself today, Members of Parliament and Members of the New Democracy. They are measures incomplete, they are measures which are inadequate and petty. The residents of the firefighters must be strengthened by all means, to stand on their feet and not to leave their land. Because people are the great hope of protecting forests, agricultural production, the housing environment. These tragic days of August proved this. Instead of that, the compensation given, the EUR 1 000 per square, became EUR 800. The rest will get them out of loans. For the first time, a new window of neoliberalism and speculation is opened in reafforestation of the burnt forests, because of one million three hundred thousand acres that burned only sixty-five thousand - that is, expenditure of EUR 224 - will be designed and implemented by the state. The environmental and productive disaster, i.e. the profitability of individuals, who have just been called by the State Secretary, Mr Amyras "national benefactors". There is a complete confusion, that is. It's the same Mr. Mitsotakis did to health. The failure in the management of the pandemic and vaccination is charged to Mr Kikilia and Mr Kontozamanis who was decapitated, while the upcoming Mr Pilaris has entered - I imagine - because he has the political "sound" to implement the announced sanitary redundancies, so that private clinical authorities can enter the ERC. It is the same thing that he did in Education, which excluded forty thousand children from being locked away, as we were told, from the universities, so that they could - I imagine - locked away from the expensive universities abroad, based on the example given by the Prime Minister himself, or in colleges, as the Minister for Education, who has remained in her place. It is the same as Mr Mitsotakis does to privatise supplementary pensions. We say now is the time for a new start. The aid measures for the inhabitants of the firefighting regions must signal a new future that will be safe and sustainable to leave the countryside and the primary sector, to the ageing population in these areas and to the constant exit of young people to the cities. Aid measures that go beyond the hurdle and show everyone that we are inaugurating a new era to tackle the climate crisis and natural disasters. The measures relate to the following: I mean, what would we do if we were government? Firstly, the full compensation for firefighting to restore the material damage suffered by buildings, facilities, machinery, crops and livestock. Secondly, covering 100% of the lost agricultural income for five years and subsidising feed. Thirdly, the provision of free services and social state benefits to firefighters. And above all, the emergency income for all families, which means 400 euros for the first adult member, 200 euros for each other adult, 100 euros for each child, the temporary accommodation allowance that really covers the rent for as long as the building or repair of the burned houses lasts, and obviously the free primary care services, as well as the strengthening of children with benefits and benefits. Fourthly, a definitive redesign of the natural, agricultural and residential landscape for the real safety of ecosystems, production and residents. This design is linked to resilient agriculture, to increasing agricultural income with emphasis on strengthening young people, especially women, the innovative and digital organisation of production, the strengthening of family collective ventures with subsidies and loans from a development bank, and of course new substantial measures to prevent, protect, monitor and tackle natural disasters. The Goldammer Plan, the integrated proposal to protect SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance and the announcements of Alexis Tsipras draw up a new path. In conclusion, the climate crisis to be addressed requires the rehabilitation of the countryside and the return of young people to it. Today, the development of rural tourism, teleworking, the small but current trend towards leaving new towns must be strengthened. The first step is an integrated rehabilitation program for fire-fighting areas with a view to the future. SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance is ready for this great need required in our country. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u153	Thank you, too. Mr. Pana, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u154	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what can you say about the decaying images, about the shocking evidence of the extent of the disaster that has been facing five regions of our country lately from the recent fires? In particular, the first calculations increase the losses of national wealth to more than EUR 600 million due to disasters in residential, business, agricultural, plant and livestock. In hundreds of millions of euros are also the financial cost. The (...it was not heard because of a misconnection) of the fires came when both in the country and throughout the world began to weaken to some extent the effects of the pandemic and our economy attempted to find its footprints and return to some normality. Minister, the new parliamentary term opens up with the emergency measures of the two legislative acts because of the catastrophic fires. The points to be made concern mainly the agricultural sector. First of all, there is serious concern about the horizon of banning, moving, transiting and staying as regards residential areas, residential tissues and even until 31 October. The beekeeping industry has remained steadfast, Minister. It did not accept any aid as an area affected by the pandemic and, as of 9 August, it could not continue its work because of this ban. You admit that the work of apiculture is not done with strict precautions and you prefer the ban on their professional activity. What will these people do? What about all these properties that have been destroyed? Therefore, the state should grant direct aid to beekeepers for the costs of moving the cells, for oil costs, as we are talking about subsidising the nomadic beekeeping because beekeepers should carry any cells left in Halkidiki and Thassos. Also, what will become of rheinian farmers who in particular in Evia produced 85% of all Greek production? Of the destructive fires, 70% - 80% were lost. What about the lost productive olive groves and the labors of decades? Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the catastrophic effects of the entire agri-food sector will undoubtedly be reflected in the next twenty or twenty-five years in the total GDP of our country. We all know very well that the granting of the one-off and exceptional financial assistance of EUR 1000-4000 for farms is not enough. As the discharge of the EMI for agricultural parcels is not sufficient until 2023. Let's not be fooled. There is no real provision for loss of income for firefighting producers. There is no mention of the loss of income of a producer until he is right-wing, especially for those up to now who cultivated trees. You are well aware that an olive tree to come into production must be at least seven years. While for sustainable production it takes more than thirteen years. I won't expand any further. I would just like to stress that the total cost of the two proposals for legislation that will (...) have not been heard because of poor connections) is about EUR 60 million without all the final costs being taken into account at the moment. Of course, the huge cost of losing forest, agricultural and animal wealth and the biodiversity of the areas that have been burned is still not estimated anywhere. But if the government had even given part of EUR 60 million to prevention measures, we might not even have to look for this hole in the budget from the restoration measures. In conclusion, I would like to say that all this debate we are having today is not a debate from scratch. We have been told and re-examined. Measures have been proposed. We have, as a Change Movement, been proposing all this time through the Greek climate law's resolution and previous opportunities to legislate in establishing the Natural Disaster Insurance Fund with the contribution of the private sector in order to shield households from extreme weather phenomena in the respective funds standards in other countries. Finally, Mr Minister, the measures to support our affected fellow citizens and rehabilitate the regions are necessary. But it is certain that further study is needed as at last a completely other philosophy of approaching forest fires is needed with emphasis on prevention and direct intervention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u155	Thank you. Now Mr Karasmanis has the floor from New Democracy. Immediately afterwards, Mr. Consolas will follow and we will finish with Mr. Arachovitis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u156	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now being called upon to ratify two acts of legislation with emergency measures to address the risk of fires and to protect effectively and quickly the natural environment, and to support directly the fires affected by the last two months. Our rapporteur, Michael Papadopoulos - whom I congratulate on the Ministership - has been mentioned in detail. I believe that legislative acts are realistic and that they will be implemented immediately and will in fact support all those who have been hit by the fiery naturality. Unfortunately, we have lived one of the worst summers in recent years. Following the catastrophic and flooding in northern and central Europe, we have had the extremely high temperatures, as has happened in all the Mediterranean countries. We have experienced extremes, that is, situations, the result of climate change that is evolving in a global climate crisis, a crisis that the New Democracy has faced and set as its top priority. As a Qualified Opposition we have proposed by our President the revision of Article 24 with significant improvement provisions for effective protection against the consequences of climate change. But, as we all remember in February 2019, then the government rejected our proposal. Also, as a Member from the first days of my parliamentary journey, I had been mentioned and pointed out by the coming climate of Armageddon. As Minister with my partners, we have drawn up a series of programmes and measures such as, for example, dealing with water shortages and desertification with the 436 million lignite dams, which, unfortunately, have been inactive for four and a half years by the previous government, as well as M17 measure to strengthen ELGA in order to address the effects of climate change on our agricultural production. The most important, ladies and gentlemen, is the M8 programme with 226 million Community money, which would effectively shield our forest wealth and the environment in general. I repeat that we are not talking about 5, 10, 20 million, but about 226 'hot' Community million, which have also been the predecessor government for four and a half years. It sounds incredible, but it's the sad reality. What if all these years I asked the competent ministers questions? I never got a reply. What if I made an intervention in the parliamentary committees? What if I denounced this step of the House? Voss voice to ears of not listening. And our government's here. I informed Kostis Hatzidakis, who is distinguished by political steadfastness and who immediately saw the huge and multi-faceted usefulness of the project and in November 2019 by express procedures. A hundred and sixteen projects have been presented throughout the country and I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, for some of these projects which have been announced and which relate to areas hard hit by the last fiery nightmare, so that we can all see what could have been rescued today by the disaster, if they had not been in the four and a half years of excitement, not to say criminal and non-violent. So we say: In Attica 8,632.580 for forest fire prevention, anti-nuclear protection, innovative prevention system equipment, installation of fire detection and monitoring systems for forest fires and communication equipment in the areas of Parnitha, Tatoi, Pentelis, Dionysia, Kifissia, Markopoulos, Spata, Rafina, Paiga, Megaron, Mandra and others, 3,777.507 for reafforestation of burned forest land, restoration in areas of Hymettus, Byron, Barnava, Argyroupoli and others, in many of the last destruction of Euboea 1.637.769 for forest fire prevention, anti-nuclear protection, improvement of forest roads, 329 for reforestation, 1.052.000 for prevention and protection from floods, 418.000 for forest infrastructures and other infrastructures, on the basis of conventional infrastructure. Ladies and gentlemen, I have denounced a few and examples of the many projects that have taken the course of auctioning throughout the country, such as, for example, the 4,000,000 in the Pella prefecture for forestry projects. That's why I don't abuse time, I'm filing the full list in the Minutes. It is extremely revealing what we could have saved not only from the recent disasters, but also from the previous disasters, because if these forest projects had been launched in time by the Ministry of the Environment in 2015, in 2016, today, six years later, many of them would have been completed and would have contributed substantially to preventing or minimising the destructive consequences of forest fires and flooding phenomena. These are prevention projects submitted by forest services, the municipalities of the country from November 2019 to April 2020 and have now joined for implementation. It is clear - I repeat - that if these projects had been implemented in time, they would have contributed to the maximum and the repression of forest fires and floods, as they would have enabled the civil protection forces with a satisfactory network of access routes and access to fire-fighting zones and the creation of water supply and refuelling points for fire-fighting vehicles and other terrestrial fire-fighting forces. Today these forest projects have to be accelerated as emergency and emergency projects, because competitive processes are complex and time-consuming and winter in the mountains is long and the time to implement the projects is limited. So that forest services can cope directly with this nationally important project, they should be bravely strengthened both at scientific and technical level. An exceptionally high level of intake of forests and forests and the establishment of a technical service, as I have proposed, is required to assist forests that are undersubscribed and do not have the knowledge of starting the competitive process and operating the projects with a risk of the money being lost. I'm watching the works closely. I am in contact with the State Secretary, George Amyras, who is showing a great deal of effort to speed up all procedures. In conclusion, I would like to highlight the great contribution of logging to the prevention of fires and, more generally, the protection of forests, because they live within them and live from them. That is why we need to give incentives to stay, but also to attract young people to the profession. I therefore consider it important that the Secretary of State for the Environment is given EUR 700,000 to forest cooperatives, which are intended for costs of maintenance, repair and replacement of their equipment. We haven't seen this grant for many years. I would ask you very much, Mr Secretary, to give this funding to all forest cooperatives. Pella, for example, has the most forest cooperatives from all over Greece. It has forty - six forest cooperatives, a thousand five hundred loggings. Their equipment is outdated, it needs replacement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u157	You're welcome, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u158	I shall conclude, Mr President. I also consider the restoration by Kostis Hatzidakis of the injustices of Law 2423/2016 in forest cooperatives and loggings to be particularly positive and I believe that, with his discrepancy, he will also resolve the issue of the pensions of logging. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u159	Thank you. We are now continuing with Mr Consola from New Democracy. Please, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u160	Good evening, Mr. President. Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, an important debate is taking place on the country, a debate which updates the problems of the fires of the previous period and also of natural disasters from the previous period. The debate on the bill on measures to support citizens, businesses, professionals in the fire-fighting areas, but also on the effective protection of the environment, cannot take place in a field of demagogy and populism. Since the importance of this is a criterion which the citizens have as a reference point and will have it in the coming period, we must take into account what is happening in the international community as well, since international experience of such natural disasters in the United States, for example, but also in European countries, reflects the best practices with which Western democracies analyse data, draw conclusions and go on taking measures so that we do not live up to such phenomena again. That is why, Mr President, I call for unity in finding ourselves away from reasonable political cannibalism and anthropophatomy on what we are discussing today because some are restricting their debate and public speech. However, public speech cannot be exhausted in requiring resignations and caratosis without any substantial proposal for changes in the forestry and forestry structures. It is a parameter that I would like to table with great respect to my colleagues. The ratification of the act of legislation which provides for the placing of forest services in the Ministry of the Environment, but also the declaration as reservoirs of poor areas within 30 days instead of the ninety days that have been in force so far, is an important first step. Of course, the Government's initiatives can only be limited to these two points. There is no doubt that Santit's government Law 2612/1998 was an incorrect institutional initiative that led to the weakening of the forestry service. Mr President, that is not what Manos Konsolas says. That is what the citizens who have already experienced it say, how we have been dealing with these problems in the past time throughout the country. After this biblical catastrophe we have all experienced - and let me point out that here in the Dodecanese, Rhodes has lived for the third time since 2008 a great disaster of fires - the need to restructure and strengthen forestry services is apparent. What are these priorities? The first priority is support for staff and resources. There can be no effective service without the necessary personnel. This means that procedures for hiring through an ADP of a thousand people need to be accelerated. Forestry needs foresters, forest guards. They must be able to implement forestry protection and cleaning projects in the forests. As an example, I mention Kos Forestry which has an employee. So it goes without saying that where there are forests, there must be these elements that I mentioned before. Secondly, the structure of the Forest Office needs to be restructured: one office per county with extended responsibilities, but also with the prioritisation of projects - that is what we must point out - of priority projects such as the subordination of PPC's networks in the forest areas, for example. It is something I must put before the debate today. This means that immediately the integration and financing of these projects from the Recovery Fund should be extended. It is a glorious opportunity for Mr Vesyropoulos here next period - and I think he has the sensitivity to convey this proposal to the staff - to see it - and it is important - without any quarrel. The third element is the flexible framework so that forest protection projects can be implemented quickly. The law brought by the SYRIZA - ANEL government in 2016 on public procurement leads to more than two months of emerging a simple, small task of forest protection. Clearly we also need to see the question of fire extinguisher and I will bring you the experience of dealing with and managing fires in the island area again. In the island regions, such as the islands of Cyclades and the Dodecanese, there are not the required forces of the Fire Service, nor the means for there to be immediate intervention in a fire that will erupt on an island. I am sure that we all realise that the most critical factor in these situations is time, that is to say, direct reaction. And that means that the speed, reaction and intervention of ground and air forces contributes to limiting and controlling a fire. It is a fact that this particular feature in the island regions, in which time is needed to get the aid, requires all of us but above all the competent bodies of the state to consider the creation of a single fire-fighting structure with operational responsibility for all the islands of the southern Aegean. This structure will include infrastructure and coordinate the staff of all stakeholders, such as Firefighting, Forest Service and Self-Government. It will have a special body of forest-based forest-based fire-fighting services with immediate availability, as well as air transport of special fire-fighting forces, while having its own air means permanently stationed in the area. Two are the advantages resulting from the creation of the single fire-fighting structure in the South Aegean Region. Firstly, speed and efficiency in dealing with fires in the islands. Secondly, the coordination of all operators, sufficient air forces that move directly, specific ground forces that attempt quickly and do not require support from Attica by air and ground forces. Let me point out and recall that this proposal, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, is based on the New Democracy's programme commitment presented in October 2018 and provides for the creation of a single forestry protection body and the setting up of a special forestry body within the firefighting industry. The President-in-Office of the Council in the debate last time in the House, in the pre-amble to the debate on these issues, was on the substance of the commitment we had and the election process. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it goes without saying that there will be cross-party support for support measures for firefighting citizens and businesses. From there on, I believe that a broad cooperation and understanding must be established on issues such as the protection of the natural environment, free of past practices and behaviour. Thank you again, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u161	Thank you. We are now completing the process with the speakers with Mr Arahovitis from SYRIZA. Immediately after that, the rapporteurs - those who wish - will speak for five minutes and then the Minister will speak and the procedure will be closed. Please, Mr Arachovitis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u162	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I can only begin with a comment on today's reform. If that is what the Prime Minister means, rather than consensus, consensus - I think he is on a completely wrong track. With these cheap things - let me express the expression - manipulations to secure the much-conscious consensus that he sees as necessary for his political survival, it is not possible. As we all remember last week one of the worst position of a Prime Minister with such an extent and such a drought through Parliament in the debate on the earlier agenda, consensus and understanding cannot be reached. We understand his anguish, we understand that he himself and his staff are aware that the government is now breathing the slippers and is not being saved with these turfs, but that is how there can be no tolerance and no consensus. As well as tolerance and consensus, when the Prime Minister himself is ironing out the residents of Mani, Evia, Elijah, East Attica, saying that everyone cannot wait over his village for a helicopter. Let's talk to the wounded! Let them tell the residents of Mani who waited for a helicopter not to leave Taygeto and end up with three fiery languages in the sea, burning a hundred thousand acres of rural area mostly and pastures - on the farm is part of - and forest land. This is what people hear when they get angry, because this is where the government needs to understand three basic things. The first is that what has been created in very difficult conditions, in fact with personal work by generations of people on mountains, either Mani, Gortini or northern Evia - who knows the areas, understands - cannot be done again under the current conditions of rural abandonment. One of the prisoners. The second is that for beekeepers, farmers or oil producers until the landscape is restored and the income is paid again, it will be too much and too many years. The danger of the great, beyond the obvious survival of the people themselves, is the abandonment of the countryside, so the measures should have such a perspective and a depth. We are talking about an unprecedented and ecological and economic disaster. And the third is that this damage other than farmers, farmers, resin producers and beekeepers, which all my fellow Members have mentioned, is a damage to the region's economy. The mills, processing plants, standardisation of honey, cooperatives, processing and production plants of cheese products for the next few years will not have the raw material to work. This means job losses, a big blow to the local economy and a loss of markets. These have a depth which the government cannot understand. This shows that the government is divorced from the real situation in the country. We, of 11 August, tabled concrete proposals for both primary production and producers and for the wider economy, and even indicated the tools with which this can be done. So far there has been no design by the relevant Ministry and Economic and Rural Development. Here, of course, allow me another intervention in relation to the measures of the Rural Development Programme that we received in 2015. The measures, the multi-advertised measures, have turned behind the European Commission with more than four hundred fifty - almost four hundred sixty - observations. Actually, it was a sieve. The Rural Development Program was rebuilt a year later, because it just became vexed, just to show that something happened before the 2014 elections and actually brought back a year - a whole year back! - these programs. So it would be good, when we speak in plenary, to be documented on what we are talking about. And I shall end by saying this: in order not to compare disparate situations and not to find ourselves as a pretext and as a pretext for everything now, climate change and climate crisis, it is the inability of this government to prevent and tackle. And that is what Mr Famelos has said, which is undeniable and which Mr Famelos referred to. We have the highest number of acres per forest fire. This is clearly due only to the management carried out by the Government of New Democracy and the leadership of the Fire Service and nowhere else. Climate change and climate crisis we had in all the countries of southern Europe from Cyprus, Italy, Spain, but this number, the huge number of acres per forest fire, only had it in Greece. So let the government consider, even now, and do not ask for consent where it seems to be twisted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u163	You're welcome. Let's start the secondary cycle now. Mr. Logiadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u164	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will begin first of all by repeating what the Prime Minister said here in plenary on 25-8: 'We have put the cubit high, but we have passed below'. We believe that all governments have gone under the bar and, of course, it was not just Mr Chrysochide's point of reform today. In recent years you signed the memorandum, the public sector has been devalued, it has been subordinated and essentially privatised and you are selling out the public sector. Mr Consolas spoke earlier about America, he referred to America, the American example and quite rightly. You should see in civil protection in America what they do in earthquake issues, because in earthquake issues, the operational control centres, which control situations and react, are seismic insulation structures. Have you built a seismicly insulated construction here in Greece? It's going down, there's going to be a big earthquake -- that's going to happen, sometime it's going to happen -- how are you going to react? What are you gonna do? There's this technology, take your action! And the other issue - you have asked, Mr Amyras - how will the climate crisis be tackled? In any case, we have not received a clear answer - not with the construction of modern motorways, but without the use and provision of trains, with the E-65, with the BOAK in Crete, or the "Kasteli-Iraklio" in Crete - since there is no train, this thing is a burden on the environment and I mean the national roads - and the latter, of course, not without parking at the Athens metro stations! The Athens metro, the metro of all Athens, can only have two parking stations. This doesn't help the environment! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u165	Mr. Villards has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u166	We've changed, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u167	Mrs Manolakou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u168	I'd rather take the mask off and come to Stepma, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u169	You're welcome, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u170	The debate on the fire neck and your inadequate measures is under the influence of today's announcement of the remodelling of the government, with major changes in ministries that are about the catastrophic large fires and heavy government responsibilities. You want through these changes to mitigate and hide the heavy political responsibilities that are burdening you. However, government policy is not a matter of people, but of the strategy you have. And your choice is the needs of capital for profitability and how you will satisfy them, while at the same time creating popular needs. That is why it is clear that this criminal environment policy will also continue with the immediate, brave and rapid compensation of wounded people that Mr Stagioras has told us is a summer night dream for the popular layers of the wounded. I will concentrate on the amendment that you tabled for supposed restoration of those affected by the great disaster. Firstly, it has nothing to do with the needs and demands of the people's populations which have been affected and which are mentioned in the resolutions and requests of their committees, which the Communist Party of Greece has tabled. Secondly, the articles of Amendment 4 and 5 refer to arrangements for tourism operations only for the area of northern Euboea, although there may also be a need for such arrangements in other areas affected in the Peloponnese, Ilia, Laconia, Arcadia, Messinia and elsewhere. Thirdly, instead of removing the limits to the irreconcilable, you also retain them and apply to insurance - tax information. However, the exemption should apply to all payments. Fourthly, in Article 8 you pay 80% of the burnt houses. What about the rest of it? Will they get a loan? And who will give it when the devastated has neither an income nor a job? How will he pay it back? Unless you borrow and have it in the medium term for joining the auction list of popular home. Of course, nothing refers to legislative acts and to the government's amendment to prevent, integrated forest management and protection. That is why you are hiding behind extreme weather phenomena, climate change and you and the previous government of SYRIZA. But you are not relieved of your responsibilities and must not be forgotten! It is true that both you and the previous SYRIZA government are allowed to install wind turbines in the forests, even in NATURA areas, which is unacceptable for us. However, in these cases it also needs permission to cut down trees for the opening of roads, sometimes through forests, for the transport of wind turbines, which is quite a costly thing. Some forests were not licensed for cutting trees and opening streets, such as the one in Karditsa. What did you do? You transferred responsibility to a office in a neighbouring county. Now what are you doing? Consolidate and take from the decentralised competence of the forest offices. Of course, this is good in principle, but you are doing so because you want to collect everything so that there are no barriers and delays in the RES business groups. They want to go even faster without delays to unwind the Recovery Fund. As far as forest maps are concerned, you are implementing New Democracy and SYRIZA, because they are the leading profitable pursuit of the monopolistic groups, the Greek Industrial Association, the banks, to form a clear landscape that will speed up their exploitation plans, facilitating the concentration of the land in a few hands. We are therefore voting against both legislative acts and the government amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u171	We continue with Mr. Apostleu from SYRIZA. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u172	Thank you, Mr President. Although emotionally I would like to refer to my compatriots who are currently looking for the clearance, the highlighting of their responsibilities, their support, I think we should at some point say a few things about the next day. We have experienced an incompetence in terms of coordination and at the same time, of course, a model of fire extinguishment, which has proved once again that it does not serve the forest area. Ladies and gentlemen, we experienced a fortnight in August scary. Our country's huge devastation from the recent fires have effectively put the model in place. We must therefore re-examine it in depth. Above all, however, we must inspire the notion that forest protection without anti-nuclear designs does not exist. If we continue with the existing organisation and even change forest protection, as the Prime Minister said, in a permanent umbrella of air means in sensitive areas - imagine this scenario how it works and how it looks - we are expected even more difficult days. I'm gonna stand by the county fires, because the perimeters are about an anthropogenic complex of construction and vegetation, and they need another approach. There is a need for an approach in which the Fire Service, local government, volunteers, I would say that they will be the ones that will be the front guard to deal with the incidents. In the case of fires in the province, then, we have a lesson to learn from each fire-fighting project, and on this we have to take major initiatives. It was the effort of the residents and especially of the young people to save their villages and save them. With them we can build a new approach, because their interest in touching on the next day, much more when their employment is linked mainly to the primary and also to the tourist sector. When, ladies and gentlemen, there was a transfer of the responsibility for firefighting, and at that time there were many fires, but there was little progress in great numbers, because then there was timely intervention, preparedness, and it was basically the inhabitants of the areas affected that were mainly farmers. Our reaction at that time as a coalition was hard because we predicted that this move would bring the forest service away from a cognitive object and indeed without a successor situation. It was just a criminal arrangement! And that, of course, had its consequences, because the first year we had more than a million areas that were burned were destroyed. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I would like a little tolerance, Mr President. But in the next few years, when there was no effective preparedness, most of the fires were made big. So, then, the forest space begins to experience the paradox of forests not to participate when the area they managed burned down. And near them were the inhabitants and especially those who lived from and around the woods, that is, forest workers, farmers, foresters and others. However, this absence has also brought about another result, the disappearance of prevention and the emergence of air suppression. It is undeniable that the existence of several air suppression instruments is now a necessity. However, this approach cannot reverse prevention as its most important tool for defending it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Today, however, we need to see another destructive perspective. These fires concern to a considerable extent the rural tourism area which makes a decisive contribution to the living of the inhabitants in these areas. About five hundred and eighty-five thousand citizens in our country have main or supplementary income from the rural area, from this activity. In particular, agriculture from these fires loses annually more than fifty thousand acres of crops and other infrastructure. Also, in view of the fact that 50% of the areas of forestry are now being used by farmers for grazing, or for a declaration, as eligible in the IACC for aid, then you understand that when these lands are declared to be resurrected, there is a huge problem and very rightly the specific activities are declared to be resurrected. That is why, in the long term, the conditions must be created to enable the inhabitants of the areas affected by fires, namely farmers, farmers, foresters, beekeepers, to engage actively in the restoration and protection of forests. However, the first thing that needs to be done to make forest fires effective is, as I have said, the management of forests, as I have said, is that their anti-nuclear protection should always be directed at them. This means not only anti-nuclear areas, but also a necessary network. It means that there must be a whole process. Of course, above all, let us not forget that today the cost of prevention is less than 1/10 of the costs involved in repression. There's the Goldammer conclusion, which has been widely accepted. It proposes the establishment of a scientific advisory body for the systematic organisation - take note of the phrase - of the management of fires and of the countryside. It's identical. Indeed, the main objective is to achieve the necessary cooperation with all stakeholders. All those involved in fire-fighting need, Mr President, to conclude, as long as they have specific roles. If, then, we go on a course like this with regard to fire-fighting, the conditions will be created - they will not immediately be carried out, but - slowly - within the right context, I would say - coordination which must be carried out by those who are aware of the parameters of a fire incident. And, in fact, at least right now, the forest service has it. I believe that in this debate on these issues - the President has committed himself - we will say more. Thank you very much, Mr President and you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u173	Thank you, too. Mr. Papadopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u174	Thank you, Mr President. There was a conversation about things that are self-evident. Of course, it is not the great reflexes that this government has shown, saying today - of all of us here, I imagine - how quickly we moved. Of course, there have also been auctions. I'm sure we could give a lot more. Of course, these are the first measures that have been taken quickly. And that means that a state begins to operate in the standards of states that we were jealous of. It has shown immediateness, capacity and flexibility so that we can deal with a big issue. Of course, from the loss, we don't expect a profit. We have huge damage, really, and I'm not going to say if it was the fault of something more or if there were any mistakes or what happened right. Our Prime Minister himself said so boldly. This is the first time that someone in the Chamber has taken on the part of the responsibility for government actions. From there on, however, it is very important - and this is what we are discussing today - that the legislative act is ratified - that we have immediately moved in this direction. Definitely the protection of the forest and the environment in general is a multidimensional one. We hear various theories from'special' for the anti-nuclear areas. They were answered by the Prime Minister. He asked for this conversation to be held and was not hidden so that it would take place after months, nor was it lost from the news. From there on neither air means are a oneway nor is a panacea. You know it very well, and we all know it. It is therefore a multi-dimensional issue that concerns the environment. Clearly, climate change is very important, but it is not the only reason. But what we see is that we are not a state, such as Switzerland, Denmark or the United States. But that is what the Minister has done in this ministry, as well as the Prime Minister's orders on the basis of which we shall proceed in the right direction. In these steps, then, we are on our way. Let's keep from the whole case that we worked too hard in difficult conditions. To congratulate all those who have tabled a soul, firefighters and citizens, but at the same time to accept that there have been quick reflexes, there has been compensation - I repeat that from the damage, let us not wait for a profit - in a large part. So we are in the right direction, a state that cares, which shows that it can function and we will become even better. In this sense, I propose that this bill should be passed so that we can really show that we can all take more steps together. I have not heard any particular objections in here. If we want to talk about reconstructing or anything else that's not here. If this were to happen quickly, if the level of aid given to the particular inhabitants of the regions affected by this misfortune were to be such a big fire, then we could discuss it. We are therefore voting, showing a positive mood and showing our consent in practice rather than in political reasons. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u175	Mr Konstantinos Skrekas has the floor for eighteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u176	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, at the meeting of the Committee on Production and Trade, which took place in this Chamber on 26 August, we presented our Government's practical and immediate response to the challenges of the next day following the raging of a truly huge fire latitude that has hit our country. At the meeting of the committee, ladies and gentlemen, we discussed the immediate measures taken by our Government to support the affected, measures which have to do with financial support to those who have been affected, but also measures that have to do with administrative reforms, so that we can help the responsible authorities - the forestry services in particular - to reorganise, reorganise and thus be able to carry out their work, which is to protect forest ecosystems against the challenges of climate change, the climate crisis and the consequences of this, which we will see more and more often appear in our everyday lives. And I ask, ladies and gentlemen, and among others SYRIZA's representative, who is in the Chamber and its area of origin is Evia, where he is elected, the following: Mr Colleague, do you disagree with the transport of forest services to the Ministry of the Environment and Energy under a vertical organisation so that there is a comprehensive strategic planning, coordination and so that there is much better, much more efficient operation? Do you disagree with the award of the projects we have decided to do through the forestry services and with the money that we will transfer to the forest cooperatives in Northern Evia and in general to the local forest cooperatives in the area affected so that they can proceed directly to the protection projects, such as anti-corruption and others? Do you disagree with the exceptional grant that we made through the Green Fund, forest cooperatives and forced cooperatives in northern Evia with seven hundred thousand euros in order to cover their first costs, to maintain their machinery and the first working costs so that they can proceed to those protection projects that enable them, as the word says, to protect their homes, their settlements, the areas where they live? Do you disagree with the exceptional grant of the resin farmers in the poor regions, with the sum of EUR 3,700,000, over and above EUR 2,300,000, which each year received as financial aid from the state? Do you disagree with the introduction of an inappropriate amount of EUR 7,500 horizontally for all resin growers, which particularly in those areas affected by the fires amounts to EUR 12 000? Do you disagree with the introduction of the fastest visa and approval procedure, so and with the implementation of forestry projects, and will this provision enable us to move much faster on the necessary protection projects? Do you disagree about the full utilization of sponsorships and donations by private bodies to restore the burnt areas and, of course, support, where necessary and after a scientific study, natural regeneration by artificial reafforestation? Do you disagree with the introduction of the process of speedy removal of burnt standing trees from proprietary areas of a non-tariff character which we move on with the provisions contained in this Act? I have not heard you disagree with all that I have said and with many others that have to do with financial support, housing and all these economic provisions that we have undertaken and which we include to cover the immediate, but also the medium-term needs of those affected in these areas. So if you don't disagree, why don't you support them? It is a simple question which you must answer. Why don't you vote? How are you going, Mr Colleague, to Evia, to your fellow citizens, to your voters, to those who have sent you to the House to represent them and to tell them that 'I have not voted and have not supported these measures which will make them so good as restoration and compensation for the damage you have suffered'? You must decide what kind of opposition you want to make and your Chief Tsipras also has to decide whether he is an opposition again to 'no' or a constructive opposition that really seeks consensus on issues that are supranational and on issues that have nothing to do with colours and parties. An issue of this kind is, unfortunately, also about climate change and the consequences of climate change that are unfortunately coming and agitating our country with extraordinary weather phenomena as they appear. Of course, it was not a phenomenon which affected only our own place, but also many other countries and many other countries, both in the Mediterranean and in southern Europe, as well as in the rest of the world. Suffice it to say that it preceded these very increased numbers and the size of fires, the second hottest July that has ever been recorded in Europe. We are therefore talking about a challenge, as I have said, which does not know a border, it is supranational and obviously, as it does not know a border, much more, it does not know differential lines, ladies and gentlemen, party lines, borderlines. It is a supra-party crisis, unfortunately, which we must face. It is a challenge that dictates all the political forces of the place to be assembled and methodical to ensure that our environmental acquis is protected for the present and future generations. In these new and difficult challenges, both our Government and the Prime Minister himself, Mr Mitsotakis, could only show instantly and directly reflectively with the adoption of tangible and concrete support measures. Our aim in this legislative act that we have tabled to the House is to support in the fastest and most effective way our affected citizens and, secondly, to lay the foundations for a long-term planning to stimulate the environmental consciousness of Greek citizens. Because the environment is our common home and any ecological disaster, as I said, knows no borders. So protection is a duty and responsibility for all of us. We have heard from the Chief of Police Vice-Population in his position saying it is times of grief, concern, reflection, hours of insecurity for all of us and he has set responsibilities for all of us here, in Parliament, in the government, as well as in the opposition. That is what Mr Tsipras said and, indeed, we cannot disagree and we are all in agreement. Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis has already shown in fact that our Government is moving in this direction with the selection of Stavros Benos as head of the Northern Evia Special Reconstruction Commission, which will plan not the next and the next day. The position, as I think we all understand, of Mr Benos, who has even been embraced by a number of Greek politicians with different starting points, is exactly the symbol of and signals this intention of the Prime Minister. That is how we prove that it is not the party identity, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, and that is what is needed and the criterion to meet the important and great issues of the country. Criterion is quality, effectiveness, accredited route. These are, of course, concepts and words that Alexis Tsipras and SYRIZA are very difficult to understand. However, from all the positions of both Mr Tsipras and other SYRIZA colleagues, it is unfortunately understood that all these statements made in this Chamber are statements which are empty. This tragic situation of the destructive fires rather than uniting all the political forces of the place in a fruitful cooperation, unfortunately, is once again being attempted by the Civic Opposition to become the subject of micro-political feasibility. I really do wonder, ladies and gentlemen, after those greedy events that we all want to forget, which happened in Matti, how your Chief, Mr Tsipras, is mentioned, that your main concern is to be the safety of the world, when just after those catastrophic events, what you did was to turn the arson from a felony into a week before the national elections. This is how you realise that you are helping our country and that way do you think you are helping the security of citizens? Because it was the only thing left of what you did after the event of that huge catastrophe.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u177	You don't mind.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u178	We've also heard, among other fierce cords...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u179	You don't think about it, and that's why...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u180	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u181	You'll hear it all, Mr. Comrade. As we have heard you very carefully all these hours we are here, so you will be sitting here listening to them all. So we have heard fierce, afforestationary and petty, many times, criticism from colleagues of Antipolistism and SYRIZA about the institution of the afforestation contractor. And I ask: Instead of urging society and the volunteers, of course, the economic potential and the will to support this new legislative initiative, you are poisoning public opinion with the allegedly revelation that this is a vehicle of various interests, in general and vaguely. And I ask: How difficult it is to understand for you - mentioned very well and very nice examples also from the Deputy Minister, George Amyras - that there are our fellow citizens who have the economic potential and will to offer their place through an economic sponsorship or through covering the costs of a project, a work of mutual benefit, a project that helps our fellow citizens. How difficult it is to understand, then, that this must be done in a way that is stable, permanently organised and with absolute transparency, and that is how we come and institutionalise it. For the first time, we are establishing the reafforestation contractor, and so in northern Evia, Mr President, there will be many companies, many legal persons, many non-profit organisations, many institutions that will be able to make use of this institution and come to the area that you and many other Members are elected to this Parliament, so that there can be rapid measures to protect and restore forest ecosystems that have been affected and destroyed either partially or in full. The question is: Will you support it? Will you support this institution which enables civil society to become even more involved in a way that, as I have said, will be fully transparent, only for the purpose of implementing protection and rehabilitation projects, without the State losing any right over these areas and only after the relevant forests have been designated and after studies approved by the relevant state departments, by the forests, by the relevant administration departments? Let us also say that with regard to the substantial and broad support of our affected fellow citizens from the fires of July and August, we are moving forward and proclaiming resurrected land within 30 days instead of ninety days that has been in force so far. I also welcome the fact that the proclamation of reafforestable land in the region of Gerania, which was affected by some three months, was finally signed yesterday or today by the Coordinator of the Committee on Regional Policy. That's not what SYRIZA did. The New Democracy Government did it. We're reducing time from ninety days to thirty days. We are promoting a huge administrative reform that you have not clearly told us whether or not you agree. You are saying that you are supposed to want and believe in the forest services of the Greek state, but you have done nothing permanent throughout the period in which you were in the governance of this place. And we come today to make a huge reform and create a vertical organisation, with the ultimate coordination and the absolute implementation of the policy planned by the Ministry, and many times it is approved by Parliament, where necessary and whenever necessary, and you do not come to tell us whether you are finally in agreement and will support it. And you are not telling us that, if you agree, you will not support it, as you have said at least at the committee meeting. We will wait to see if you change your mind and even at the last minute you vote and support these measures with which you say you are finally in agreement. We are therefore promoting the placing on the forest services of decentralised administrations at the Ministry of the Environment and Energy. Our aim is to ensure a uniformly coordinated, timely and effective implementation of forestry policy. I also mentioned to you the institution of the afforestation contractor, which in addition comes to be supported through innovative interventions in terms of speeding up specific forestry projects, and simplifying the procedure for approving the acceptance of burnt standing trees. In addition, in addition to the exceptional financial support we have already announced for resin farmers in the affected regions of Evia and the mountains of Gerani, we are already introducing the irresponsible payment of resin workers from both public and third countries. I told you that up to EUR 7,500 is the inconsistent generally horizontal across all of Greece and, in addition, up to EUR 12,000 per year for beneficiaries of areas declared in an emergency. As to the substantial and broad support of our affected fellow citizens and, of course, in the context of state aid, we are literally creating a lightning platform that already operates under the name 'arogi.gov.gr', in order that there is no delay, nor even one day, from the possibility of accessing the platform for our affected citizens. As we said, by the end of last week approximately EUR 10.5 million had been credited for compensation. We could not, of course, leave out of this legislative initiative and businesses, but also non-profit-making bodies, for which we are also introducing a subsidy for the damage they have suffered. In the case of fellow citizens who have suffered damage due to the fires and who have been hospitalised for over two days, we are granting a single financial grant of EUR 6 000, and I must say that the tax-free and irreparable aid is applicable to the affected. In addition, for the years 2021, 2022 and 2023, we provide for an exemption from the single property tax, from HNVIA, both for the areas where the fires have occurred and for the parcels where the owners hold a declaration of destruction by the relevant rural development and control departments. I ask: will you support this? Will you vote for them? Or will you vote 'no' on them too? Because if we are all judging and doing what you are proposing as a position, then they will not be able to take place and so our fellow citizens will not receive this financial support. And I ask why, if you agree, you do not vote?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u182	Mr Minister, I will tell you once again: they do not cover the needs you have brought.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u183	Instead of shouting, Mr. colleague from SYRIZA, come and vote for it to support it, because now you are voting 'no' on what I have said and explained in detail. Also for enterprises and employers in the private sector regardless of industry and business and regardless of whether or not they have suffered material damage to the areas that belong to the administrative boundaries of the municipalities of Istias, Edipsos, Mandudi, Agia Anna Lake of the regional unit of Evia, we provide and shield jobs. Thus, since these companies, these private-law legal persons have made use of any of the beneficial provisions provided for in this Act, any redundancy of workers in these companies is illegal. For those affected who are temporarily or permanently in an unforeseen state of emergency, we ensure that they are re-administered by the National Agency for Health Services of pharmaceutical and additional care as well as therapeutic means including medical devices which have been destroyed by fire, regardless of course, of course, and with zero participation by the beneficiaries. Of course, we should say that the practical support for our affected fellow citizens is also provided by Article 20 of the Act of Legislative Action as it provides for the possibility of appointment to the public or to the general public for people who have suffered severe burns and were treated in an intensive treatment unit or in an increased care facility or for whom at least 67% is due to the fires of July and August 2021. Furthermore, we should not neglect to mention the support measures of our students in the possibility of translating, housing to student homes and feeding if they fall under the category of firefighting, but also by extending the digital care programme to which both students and educational staff of all levels are also subject. In order to enhance our readiness and the possibility of state support in such exceptional exceptional circumstances, we are setting up the State Aid Fund in the form of a legal person governed by public law. Thus, with this fund, which will be supervised by the Minister of Finance, we will be able to finance programmes and actions to support and strengthen disasterd natural disasters as well as restorations after natural disasters, in addition, that is to say, aid already provided for by the State budget. We should also mention that, beyond what we have said, we should not neglect to highlight the fact that the Greek state has moved faster than ever in connection with the granting of substantial compensation to the affected. We will continue unsuccessful in any way necessary to support our affected citizens and, of course, in the best and most effective way. I would therefore ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote on and support the legislative act that we have put to the vote in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u184	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is adjourned at the outset, on the articles and amendment of the draft law of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy: ‘Statement: (a) of the 5.8.2021 Act of Legislative Content of the Legislative Area ‘Extended measures to address the risk of fires’ (A' 138) and (b) of the Act of Legislative Area ‘Sixtimate Measures for the effective protection and rapid restoration of the natural environment, direct support for fires affected by the July/August 2021 and related provisions’ (A'143) and other provisions’. We are voting on the principle, on the articles, on the amendment and on the whole, and they will be voted on separately. I would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, three articles, one amendment, the farewell article and the whole bill. You should make sure that you have voted for all the articles, the amendment, as well as the farewell article and the whole bill. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u185	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u186	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u187	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy: ‘Repeal: (a) of 5.8.2021 Act of Legislative Content ‘Extended measures to address the risk of fires’ (A138) and (b) of 13.8.2021 Act of Legislative Content ‘Extended measures for effective protection and rapid restoration of the natural environment, direct support for fires affected by the fires of July/August 2021 and related provisions’ (A'143) and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate on the principle of Articles and of the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u188	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u189	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-08-31-S1-commons.u190	With the consent of the House at 19.57 the meeting is closed for tomorrow, Wednesday, September 1, 2021 at 9.00, on the subject of Parliament's work: (a) parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent debate; and (b) legislative work, only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs: "Security Reform for New Generations: the introduction of a capitalisation system of pre-defined contributions to subsidiary insurance, the establishment, organisation and operation of a Capital Insurance Fund and related provisions".
