ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-21-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Happy birthday to those who celebrate today, to Maximos Charakopoulos, to Maximos who are inside and outside Parliament. [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's 20-1-2021 authorisation, the PRACULAR PRACULES' PRACTICAL PRACTICE minutes were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau, of Wednesday, 20 January 2021, with regard to the vote on the whole draft law: "Determining the range of gyalitis in the maritime area of Ionian and Ionian Islands up to Cape Tinaro in the Peloponnese".]] I have the honour to announce to the House that the Ministers for Health, Economic, Development and Investment, National Defence, Education and Religious Affairs, Labour and Energy, Justice, Infrastructure and Transport, as well as the Deputy Ministers of Finance, Interior and Health, tabled a draft law on 20-1-2021: "Structuring a) of the 11-12-20th Donation Convention between the Greek Government, the Social Benefit Foundation called "John S. Latsis (John S. Latsis Public Benefit Foundation)" and the N.D.D. under the name ‘Athens General Hospital ‘C. (b) the 9-12-2020 Donation Contract between the Greek State, 4th Y.P. Macedonia and Thrace, the Anticancer Hospital of Thessaloniki "Theagenio", Anna Maria - Louisa Ioannis Latsis and the Hellenic Anticancer Society and other provisions of the Ministry of Health." It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the supplementary agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Debates and vote uniformly on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Preparation of the Multilateral Convention for the implementation of measures relating to tax agreements to prevent the erosion of the tax base and the transfer of profits’. The draft was adopted by a majority in the Standing Committee. It is introduced to the House under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, that is to say, those who object to the ratification of the Convention for five minutes and the parliamentary representatives, if they so wish, for five minutes and provided that the President of their parliamentary group does not speak. He has voted against the Communist Party of Greece and Mera25 has expressed reservations. They're the ones who deserve to speak. We will, of course, start by Mrs Konnakka from the Communist Party of Greece and then we will see which parliamentarians want to speak. Ms Maria Konnakka has the floor for five minutes now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-21-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Could anyone disagree with the need to combat exclusion of methods used by large multinational enterprises and groups, which, in order to avoid taxation on their unsatisfactory profits, present them as revenues from non-existent companies based in low-tax countries? In such a situation, first of all, no one disagrees. But can you take measures like this without conflicting with the basic principles of the capitalist market, in essence with the capitalist economy itself? In our opinion, measures to combat such phenomena, such as cross-border tax evasion, referred to in this multilateral international convention, can only be a wish, a firework - with short duration, at best - as long as the freedom of movement of capital is maintained, the anonymity of companies' shares, offshore companies, and especially as the basic rule of the economy remains competition to achieve maximum profit, competition which is not treated solely by illegal methods and dark paths of enrichment, but is exploited and strengthened by a series of legitimate tax facilities, alleviations and immunities which have shaped, for example, in our country, the constant disproportionate proportion of tax burdens, i.e. workers, natural persons, to contribute around 94% of total tax revenue and companies to the friendly participation of only 5% of revenue. At the same time, one wonders how these opportunities for cross-border tax evasion arise for businesses, for which, in the explanatory memorandum to the bill, it is stated that the mechanism for resolving disputes between Member States needs to be improved so as not to create - you say - uncertainty to taxpayers, that measures to combat these opportunities for cross-border tax evasion will risk ultimately having to be imposed by inadvertent double taxation. The slightest uncertainty is not felt by multinationals, by large business groups, because such opportunities rise, whatever measures are taken to eliminate them. Really, who do you think you're kidding? How many multilateral and bilateral contracts have been ratified by this House a few months ago with similar content, but also in previous years to combat cross-border tax evasion, by modernising registration and monitoring mechanisms, by a number of preventive and repressive measures and by cooperation between transnational mechanisms? And what's the result? Have these phenomena been dealt with? Here is the hypocrisy of such legislative initiatives that you use to make up the system, to blur water, or even to show intentions to demarcate, to lay rules in the "jungle" of the capitalist economy. You know very well that this cannot have the slightest effect. And how are you really preventing this activity, when the so-called ‘tax havens’ are constantly being expanded, and when there is even a huge competition between the Member States by providing tax incentives for attracting investors of capital, which are acting as prisoners and for illegal, of course, the move of capital in close proximity to legality? Is that not the normal functioning of the capitalist market, the freedom to move capital, competition for hunting maximum profits? Aren't you all defending these freedoms? So, what if not hypocrisy is this contract that you are calling on the House to ratify? In fact, while the largest multinationals of the United States of America are keeping the sceptres in the use of these cross-border tax evasion routes, it is the same country that does not sign this Multilateral Convention. However, as far as the signatory countries are concerned, except that many of them have not proceeded with the corresponding adaptation of their national legislation, the most important thing is that none of these states are touching the essence of the problem. Within the European Union, even in euro area countries, there are 'tax havens' rising and there is a great deal of competition going on in terms of prevalence of the attraction of capital. We have also referred to evidence in the committee's debate. On the basis of the analysts' estimates, therefore, about 40% of multinational profits are shifted each year to 'tax havens'. The winners in this share of the pie are countries such as Switzerland, Belgium that have such characteristics as a ‘tax haven’, as the European Commission itself points out. Of course, the same is true of Cyprus, Hungary, Luxembourg, Ireland and others. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] On this list, our country is also trying to become more competitive or to approach the attraction of investors. Near the cracked labour rights is the cheap workforce that you have jointly shaped all these years and the additional tax incentives for business groups, charging more to the grassroots scale. You have recently voted with the blessings of all parties, such as reduced tax rates, exemption from trade fees and other facilities for attracting investors. You support, in other words, from the one environment in which cross-border tax evasion rises, if you want to baptise yourself and lawfulness of being able to choose the members of multinationals to tax in our country about half of what other workers have done, and now you are acting hypocritically to combat the erosion of the tax base and the choice of the cheapest tax market. That is why the JRC cannot contribute to this hypocrisy by voting for measures on the spot. If you want to start somewhere, do away with the legitimate constitutional taxes of shipowners, the legal avoidance of various business groups, in order to finally alleviate permanent mortgages, workers, populaces that have no capital to carry in other countries, but not even incomes to ensure their minimum survival. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-21-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mrs. Konnakka.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-21-S1-commons.u4	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-21-S1-commons.u5	The reason for two minutes is now the Deputy Minister of Finance Mr. Theodoros Skylakakis, who has something to testify to us. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-21-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. This is a legislative improvement concerning the authorizing provisions, which I am recognizing. 1. In paragraph 1 of the third Article, the words ‘the list of Agreements shall be enlarged, as well as any amending or accompanying acts covered by the instrument ratified by the Convention in accordance with paragraph 5 of Article 29 thereof’ shall be replaced by ‘any particular subject relating to the Convention’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Paragraph 2 of the third Article shall be deleted. 3. Paragraph 3 of the third Article shall be renumbered paragraph 2. 4. In the new paragraph 2 of the third Article, the words ‘determined and determined’ shall be replaced by the words ‘determined and specified’, the words ‘conservation of compliance’ shall be replaced by ‘conformity’ and the words ‘any other relevant subject relating to the application of the ratified Convention’ shall be replaced by ‘the subject matter relating to the application of the ratified Convention’. I'm putting it down for the Minutes. As you can see, it's purely legal. Mr President, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-21-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Minister. I would ask that it be copied and distributed to my fellow Members. Now Mr. Criton Arsenis has the floor from Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-21-S1-commons.u8	Mr President, are we going in a row?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-21-S1-commons.u9	First they will speak of those who have voted 'no' and have expressed reservations and then the other Members of Parliament in turn. Here, Mr Arsenis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-21-S1-commons.u10	Thank you very much, Mr President. MPs and MPs, ladies and gentlemen, it is truly impressive and bold of the government to bring this bill, this convention here, which aims to prevent the taxation of profits generated and, at the same time, to move forward in its PPP policy a few days ago, deciding to privatise through PPP of the PPP of PPP of PPP of PPP of PPP of PPP of PPP, this part of the ESP, which was cut off by the company ESP, when it entered the stock exchange, in order not to privatise itself, because it is a basic fixed infrastructure, a public element. It's Mornos, the pipelines, the dams, all that's not meant to be privatized. And I am referring to that for a very simple reason. It is through the PPPs that started in the UK, where we had these phenomena to privatise public services and then the profits of these companies never return to the public. They are not taxed from that country. They escape through various practices. These PPP practices that you are promoting are calling on us to change. Of course, it is not binding on the way in which it invites us to deal with them. There are fifteen actions proposed by the Agency, and yet, in fact, only one of them is part of the convention we are about to discuss, this prevention of technical avoidance of the status of permanent establishment which is set out in Articles 12, 13, 14 and 15 of the Convention. The remaining fifteen actions are left on paper. It is characteristic that countries that are tax havens, even if they are in the OECD 'white list', that is, they are using tools compatible with the OECD, such as Ireland, the Netherlands, Luxembourg - countries that you mention them as countries - standard too many times by introducing them into your bills - these countries have imported this convention. It doesn't bother them at all. So when these countries which are called upon to self-restrict themselves by this convention do not self-restrict themselves, the question is how serious we are in our targeting. And it's very simple. What is happening through neoliberal regimes today? When we have a defence of the public interest, which is climate change, which is issues of control of the operation of multinationals, all are voluntary and relaxed, international agreements have a minimal effect. When we have the defence of the interests of the multinationals through trade agreements, there we have very hard conditions, we escape from the national courts, whenever the slightest disagreement arises and doubts arise about the continuation and compliance of the agreement, we create anti-democratic bodies, such as arbitration courts and arbitration bodies, and so on, by circumventing the institutions of each state. That is the framework in which we are moving and that is a characteristic of this agreement too. There is one action under the OECD toolbox. It is Action 1 which is not incorporated into today's convention. It refers to the digital economy, as it is a central issue now, because profits generated by the Internet industry are not taxed, there is no tax at all. Even though this convention we are debating says that the profits must be taxed where they are produced, this central issue is absent from today's debate. That is why we have brought it in our amendment that we tabled for the third time, Minister, as it stands. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. This amendment calls for the very simple one, the Internet colleges are either Netflix, where so many Greek citizens have now become subscribers, and yet not one euro from their subscriptions goes to the public funds through taxation, whether Amazon, Google, Facebook, all these colossians, funds, as they say, to be taxed in Greece, to tax their turnover produced in Greece at 4%. It would be self-evident at the moment to go ahead with this measure, which would bring to the public funds revenue amounting to even 1 billion. That is why we ask you to be clearly in our amendment. Of course, we know that in the past you have rejected it. We cannot understand how it is possible to bring us this contract and to reject the consistency of the contract, to avoid tax-efficiency practices in the country where profits are produced. That is why we ask you to accept this amendment or else tell us why you are rejecting it, how you can now say 'no' to a self-evident Greek right to tax of 1 billion from these multinationals on the Internet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-21-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr Arseni. We shall now go to the parliamentary representatives, if they so wish. Speaking time is five minutes. I'll start with Mr. Brutsi. Mr. Brutsis, if you wish to speak, you have five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-21-S1-commons.u12	I reserve it for later, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-21-S1-commons.u13	Mr. Floor Alexiadis has the floor from SYRIZA, who asked to speak. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-21-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. It would be a very good opportunity today for Parliament to send a message of unity, a message of determination to combat tax evasion, because in this bill there is a very great consensus from almost all the political parties that are in Parliament and it is very important to send this message, because it takes a great deal of effort to deal with these issues. I would therefore expect that, with that logic in the speeches in the Committee on Economic Affairs - probably the page has been lost and said today - the representatives of the New Democracy say how this bill was made, how it came to Parliament today, which government did. The Mountain government didn't do it, the SYRIZA government did it. She made the negotiations, she participated, she prepared the whole process. They probably skipped it. I hope it will be restored today because it is very important to send the message. Before, however, we say that, it is good to have answers from the finance ministers, because we do not have much to add to the bill. There is our consent and our assent. It is appropriate for the Ministry of Finance to respond to current economic issues. Because we are from the Committee on Economic Affairs, we are economists, we are discussing an economic bill. The elephant in the room, the avalanche that goes down the mountain is the 22 billion-dollar hole. There was a front page in "KATHMERINI" in the previous days about the 21.7 billion hole. Will the government answer for that? Is he gonna say anything about it? Is there a problem or is there a problem and we are struggling and there is no question of it and we are going to deal with it all? I say this because, if the government has a political account, an economic success record, a success story, a situation where everything is going well, but it is starting slowly in the next few years to come economic and other measures, then we will have other kinds of problems. So we are now asking for answers to how to deal with this problem and stop this account so far, which had been based on other assumptions and other assumptions. I do not want to waste time and tire of Parliament's recorders, who are doing a very good job - I say it once again - to submit papers on what you forecast in 2020, how you finally closed in 2020 and where we are going. And I say about where we are going, because once again with a deficit of 22 billion - as I quite rightly say again - the 'Kathimerini' - was headlined - something is probably wrong. Also, many times they put social and productive actors in a number of issues. Unfortunately, you have chosen in the political dialogue the possibility and the 'platforms' that communication superpower gives you, but I assure you that it has never been saved by communication superpower. We have many examples in our country. I would remind you again: the Hellenic Confederation of Trade and Entrepreneurship raised the issue of the disappointment of small and medium-sized traders in the unequal treatment of government measures, which is rapidly transformed into indignation. Will there be an answer from the financial staff on this matter? I am also reading the communication from the Athens Chamber of Commerce - and correct me if anything has been done so far, for which we have not been informed - on the matter which it raises in time and which it pointed out to the Ministry of Finance, the problem with the Returnable Payment 5 and the risks for businesses and professionals. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Finance did not respond, did not study it. So, at the moment, it is out of the Return of an advance of 5 too many firms concerned from various branches and as the Athens Chamber of Commerce rightly points out, not the Department of Economic Policy of SYRIZA or a SYRIZA official, this solution was chosen to exclude a large number of businesses and professionals that would apply for registration. I would therefore ask that there be answers to these questions, because we understand that you do not want them to be discussed. But be sure that we have a lot of arguments, and if you disagree, we will have so much more to convince you on these issues. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Because? Often, in your political speech you raise the question of "criticize, what you are saying, what proposals you have", I do not want to go back many years, I do not want to go back to what you have done, as an opposition, although the Prime Minister yesterday very rightly did and deplored those political officials of the New Democracy with their totality, either with statements or other actions, or with their invasion of the space outside the House, where they arrived to the Peristeri of the House, etc. Don't remember that. The Prime Minister has denounced them, we accept them and we move on. But at some point let us make a self-critic about what is said and respond to the proposals we are making. So we in the big private debt problem - another elephant in the room, another avalanche that goes down - are making concrete proposals. They are not our proposals, they are proposals which make the whole of productive and social actors. So I finish with three phrases. Will you make an overall adjustment of the debts with the logic of 'equity less reasonable living costs and what remains to be part of the instalment', for all debts? Will you do that? You are right to announce for a hundred, a hundred, two hundred, two hundred forty, three hundred, four hundred doses, but in many cases not enough, because the debts are too large and the incomes are very small. Secondly, are you going to create a special professional account? And if not, say why. Thirdly, will you delete on the basis of criteria - with specific criteria, not everyone - some of the debts, as the SYRIZA government quite rightly did? Pending your answers, we will always be here to contribute to every positive and show any negative. Thank you for your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-21-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr Alexiadis. We will give the floor to Mr. Vassiliardos from the Greek Solution, who is a speaker, but who wants to put himself on his vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-21-S1-commons.u16	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's convention, as we mentioned in the committee, refers to the practice of erosion of the tax base and the shift of profits, which is called BEPS with the initials. It is an accounting practice that has existed for several years. It is unfortunately the disastrous result of globalisation, with which the Greek Solution does not agree, considering that the nation - state - is the most right option, especially because that is all it ensures democracy. It is defined by the OECD as the exploitation by multinational companies of gaps and discrepancies between the tax regime of the various countries operating, while the Commission estimates that tax evasion in the European Union amounts to EUR 825 billion annually, as much as the EUR 750 billion recovery package. I have studied many of these contracts and tax havens, such as those existing in Europe, for example the Netherlands, Luxembourg, Ireland and even Germany. The contract was adopted in Paris on 24 November 2016 and was signed by Greece on 7 June 2017, with the view that it has not led to changes internationally, to any change. If nothing else, it just makes it easier for tax advisors, who are certainly always a step in front of the respective legislature. The draft law in fact includes the contract together with the exceptions for the cases of double taxation agreements. The first four parts set out ways of avoiding double seats, in the next two, the arbitration settlement procedure, which is probably the most important change, and there are some procedural provisions in the latter. According to the Ministry of Finance, the bill will speed up the adoption of standards without renegotiation of contracts, other than reservations, while preventing tax evasion through OECD regulations, which is certainly a wish. It is said that there will be benefits for the budget, but it will not be specific, while, on the contrary, the General Accounting Office of the State stresses that there may be charges. One of these benefits, according to the Ministry of Finance, will be the decongestion of the courts, where the time of trial in Greece is indeed long, in the thousands of eighty-six days in 2016, when in France it is three hundred six days and in Romania only a hundred seventy. Apparently the contract helps the governments of the states to fill gaps in existing international rules, which allow corporate profits to disappear or move artificially into areas with low or even zero rates of taxation. Therefore, it cannot be negative, nor can it be positive, despite reservations and objections to certain articles, especially the latter, but without waiting for it to work. We will close with the following proposals, which, unfortunately, we did not have time to bring to the committee. First, a reduction in VAT on imports. In particular, under Law 4714/2020 and Articles 61 and 62, the country of invoicing has been regulated, in accordance with the European Union Directive, which is made either in the country of entry, or in another country that will consume the product, or in the latter with the lowest VAT. If Greece reduces VAT, then many of the imported products in the European Union will be invoiced here, which is not the case, because our country has comparatively high tax rates. In such a case, the benefits for Greece would be very great, among other things, from investments made in transit centres, noting that only trade between the European Union and China is estimated, on imports alone, at EUR 30 000 000, 000. Secondly, the adoption of the digital tax, as the United Kingdom, France, Italy recently -3% - Austria, Hungary and even Turkey have done. In particular, in 2018 retail sales via e-commerce were estimated at $3.5 trillion or at 14.1% of total retail sales. These sales were launched as a result of COVID, even in Greece which was low. Therefore, such a tax can provide considerable revenue to our economy, in which international platforms earn huge tax-free amounts. Thirdly, a reduction in taxes, where, on the basis of budgetary figures, companies pay about 7% of total taxes, as well as in the United States, when private individuals pay 23%, while VAT comes from 37%. Therefore, the company’s contribution to taxation is already low, so the high rates do not benefit. The rates of taxation should therefore be drastically reduced, even if revenue does not increase, the funds will be injected, the production will be invested and the jobs we need will be created. In this way, Greek companies would also be repatriated, for example, the six thousand companies from Bulgaria, which we have already proposed. Finally, as far as the individual articles are concerned, our objections concern the second article with the many exceptions, which we cannot monitor, and may dismiss the subject, so we shall vote'residents'. Most importantly, however, the third that gives authority to the ADP and the Minister to define the exceptions and how they apply, which forces us, especially in this article, to vote 'no'. That is why we have finally decided to vote 'the present'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-21-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr. Villardo. Mr. George Logiadis has the floor since Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-21-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Good morning from me and a good year. This draft law is a joint programme of the OECD and G20, the so-called ‘Base Erosion and Profit Shifting, BEPS’, tax erosion and profit transfer. The tax evasion is calculated by the OECD at around 200 billion a year. I would like to make my first comment here. We have 200 billion a year to avoid tax evasion, as calculated by the OECD. Let us compare it with Greece's current public debt, which currently amounts to around EUR 370 billion, of which approximately 230% of GDP is. What do I mean? We must tell the Greek people that public debt is not sustainable, that we are always within the memoranda. Recently, the Governor of the Bank of Greece said that red loans would be further launched after the opening of the economy. And so is it. I should like to ask as MERA25 and as a new Member here, as Yanis Varoufakis asks, that the 2010 bankruptcy file be opened, as the Prime Minister had promised in an election. Now let's go to the draft law. The project comprises fifteen actions aimed mainly at combating the tax avoidance strategies of multinational enterprises by transferring their profits to countries with a more favourable tax regime. This multilateral convention, which we are called upon to ratify today, does not include all fifteen of these BEPS actions. Here, then, we already have the first erosion from within this multilateral convention and the current draft law when the problem of regulating the digital economy and the sizes created there is not included. The rise in the digital economy creates challenges related to international taxation. The digital economy must not be separated from the rest of the economy. That is why I too would like to emphasise and recall that Mera25 is the only political party that has proposed the urgent and immediate need to tax the profits of these large multinational companies, such as Facebook, Amazon, Netflix, Google, as in other countries, by tabling a amendment to the House again. In Greece, their economic activities and profits are taxed at absolute zero. There is, therefore, a huge tax base, as stated in this draft law, which does not have any erosion and is taxed at all, because the government does not have the political will to do that, because we believe it is obeying orders from above and outside. I would then like to analyse this draft law in two parts, firstly, what it refers to in preventing the erosion of the tax base and, secondly, what it refers to in the transfer of profits. Because we are talking about tax evasion, I will continue by saying that in order to achieve erosion, there must be a tax base. And I would stress here that there is no tax base when we have undeclared revenue, a black economy, a paradox, which in Greece represents 30% to 35% of GDP and has increased and will continue to increase as the crisis has grown since 2010, as the report of the International Monetary Fund says on 16-12-2019, when in many other European countries the corresponding figure is 10% of their GDP. As long as there is no real economic growth that allows for wages that are not too low, the incentive to avoid tax evasion to remain a survival income will be imperative. It is clear, too, that as long as practices that do not refer to taxation continue, but to a specific tax capsule, such as the tax advance that Mera25 constantly boasts as a measure particularly punishing and completely wrong, there will be a great incentive to avoid. As far as the second part is concerned, the transfer of profits, we know very well that there are too many legal ways to reduce or completely eliminate these profits. Recently, because of pandemic, we see that the lanes between the very few rich ones that have too many and many poor ones grow both in Greece and throughout Europe, an issue which we highlight and we are concentrating on Greece as MERA25, pan-Europeanly as Diem25 and internationally as co-founders of Progressive International. In conclusion, this multilateral convention is in theory a good initiative to harmonise tax practices in order to tackle tax evasion, but it is practically an alibi for business as a usual. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-21-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr. Loyadis. Mr. Katrinis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-21-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking today about an international convention aimed at combating disparities in taxation. So far, it has been a dominant role in reducing disparities that transfers have had, but today, the role of taxation has to be strengthened by the establishment of a progressive tax system. I think it has returned to the public debate, Minister - I take the opportunity to say this, since you are the one responsible and because of the content of the bill - the proposal to introduce a net wealth tax. Greece is one of the countries that may meet standards to mitigate wealth and income inequalities. This will also address the loss of revenue through the restructuring of indirect and direct taxation, which has deteriorated greatly in the last five years of SYRIZA governance, and, as you well know, mainly the lowest economic strata. The choice of several countries to reduce the progressive nature of the tax system and reduce taxation has led to inequality. Some governments have said that it was a forced option to keep jobs and to have increased public revenue. However, these reductions have resulted in legalising, in particular, tax evasion practices and tax evasion. An entire consultancy firm has been developed that guided the very strong in how their assets will be transferred to tax havens to avoid tax payments. It has therefore led to a choice of a different tax seat, with the profits earned by the very strong - quite clearly! - and losers who lost their jobs or paid disproportionately large taxes, very simply because they could not hide the properties or transfer them to foreign companies. According to the WORLD INEQUALITY LAB survey in 2018, more than 10% of world GDP is hiding in tax havens. This led the OECD in 2013 to take the Base Erosion and Profit Shifting initiative to digitise the economy and reduce tax havens. The European Union adopted in March the proposal to apply a 3% digital service tax - Giorgos Arvanitides said so - to companies with a turnover of more than 750 million worldwide and 50 million at Union level. It's an important initiative. I could call it a historic opportunity for many, but it is delaying, since at the end of 2020 it was clear that an agreement could not be reached between the OECD countries and a problematic one in that direction was the attitude of the outgoing President of the United States, who warned with retaliation the countries applying this tax, such as France. There is good optimism that the Biden Presidency will facilitate and strengthen the overall effort. It was right that the European Union had made it clear that, regardless of the OECD's agreement, it will go ahead with the process and I would like to believe - I am sure - that although Anna Diamantopoulou's effort to lead the OECD Secretary-General's position, with the views she has, it will strengthen this initiative which also guarantees tax, so social justice too. Several countries have already launched it, such as Spain with the digital transaction tax, with income from the company within the country of more than EUR 3,000,000 and Austria and more than 25,000,000. In this direction we are discussing today the multilateral convention signed by ninety-five states. We have said that we will vote in favour of it. It addresses the erosion tools of a tax base related to the intellectual property industries of large technological and pharmaceutical companies. It is estimated - you, Mr Minister - that there is a loss of revenue at European level of 160 to 190 billion per annum from the failure to implement this framework, which combats the cases of those who violated the institutional framework for avoiding double taxation. We are therefore voting in favour of it and why it amends the existing agreements with the benefit of the country without delay and why transparency and tax security are being strengthened, while at the same time decommissioning the functioning of the administrative courts. Ladies and gentlemen, the fight against tax evasion and tax evasion is certainly a national objective and should be combined with a fair tax system, a system which not only favours the holders and occupants, but the many people who are fighting daily in adverse conditions, which have been dramatically worsened in recent times, a system which will not strangle the enterprise, but will give them freedom, a system which, at the same time, ensures the necessary income for the state's strong presence in the daily lives of citizens. I fear, ladies and gentlemen, that it is lacking in the fiscal strategy of the government, and that is not good at this juncture that we are going through as a country. That is why the Change Movement continues in the progressive direction to provide solutions and answers to all these deadlocks that are created. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-21-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr. Katrin. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative Mr Ioannis Vroutzis speaks.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-21-S1-commons.u22	Thank you very much, Mr President. Today it is trying in the Greek Parliament with a broad consensus, as far as I can see, to vote on a multilateral agreement on a matter which concerns both a national objective in Greece and many countries in the world, Mr President. The issue of tax evasion and tax evasion is a matter that is a long-standing political objective for every favoured state. According to the Minister, Mr Besiropoulos, and as recorded by the figures, at European level, the loss of tax revenue for countries reaches a scary level of EUR 160 to 190 billion. Just to think that not all of this money, but a section of this money could have been in the public revenues of the states, that could have been transferred to social policies, development policies and what benefit citizens would have. But because the enemy of good is the best, we constantly pursue policies to improve tax performance in our country as well. Today we are doing this with this multilateral convention, which is really a positive step. I heard SYRIZA's rapporteur, the chosen friend, Tryphona Alexiadis, complaining "Why don't we recognise that this was done by signing the Greek Government on July 7, 2017?" Indeed, it did. But from the 17th to the 19th that you left the government, Mr Alexiadis, it's been two years. What have you been doing for two years? Why didn't you bring this to the House? We would have had a significant tax advantage on State budget revenues if you had done so earlier. You delayed it two years, and today you come and resign the government, why doesn't it just recognize the negotiation that took place in Paris? In any case, I understand that it's another piece at policy level that SYRIZA says "I haven't had time. You haven't had a chance, but we're here to do it, Mr. Alexiadis. And that's what the New Democracy government does. Our country has signed fifty-seven bilateral conventions to avoid double taxation. This multilateral convention comes into force in these fifty-seven double-tax contracts and will automatically resolve, by amending the tax mechanisms, the issues that arise, with a view to reducing - not eliminating - tax avoidance and avoidance, primarily tax avoidance, because it is a common place - we all know that big economic colossians, businesses, through tax evasion, legal proceedings, are transferring their profits to other areas with less tax rates, and that is exactly what we are trying to suspend. I therefore believe that this multilateral convention, which is being proposed by the Ministry of Finance, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, the broad consensus which Parliament will give on this multilateral agreement today. You will, however, allow me to make two - three comments on the comments which have primarily been made on the SYRIZA side. I have heard the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman relinquish New Democracy for the large deficit presented in the budget figures, as stated by the Minister of Finance two - three days ago, of the order of 22.8 billion. So, what should it be? Should we have a surplus in a year, Mr Alexiadis, of global pandemic, which we supported, with targeted policies, the labour market, the workers, the unemployed, the businesses? Where would we find the money if this budget gap were not opened, the opening? A deficit was created which basically went exactly as an economic transfer to support these regions of the economy, all the sectors affected, the regions affected by the unemployed in the OAU, with the dozens of allowances that we gave as an extension of the unemployment benefit, the five and a half million payments made by the Ministry of Labour in 2020. We made five and a half million payments, which amounted to 3.5 billion, which we gave to the rightholders through the suspension of contracts of employment and unilateral submissions of declarations. On this basis, according to what the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister said, as a whole in 2020, the Greek State paid EUR 24 billion - to say again EUR 24 billion - to meet these needs of weak social groups and businesses, through the repayable advance for businesses and many other policies that I do not need to analyse now. In other words, what magical way would there be, Mr President, if the government did not make this budgetary intervention in support of this society which was in an environment that was unprecedented as it is all over the world. And the impressive and positive thing for our country is that international organizations, with the primary role of the European Commission, have come and given Greece credit! World economists with articles in the world say - I am not talking about dealing with health, which has been positively matched by the policies we have developed - that the interventions we have made in the labour market to keep jobs, as is now shown by both ELSTAT and 'ERGAN', were effective. The balance of "ERGANI" closed positively with ninety-three thousand trillions for 2020. As far as unemployment is concerned, Mr Secretary, the budget has fallen out on two points. It fell out in a positive way, and I mean the deficit, which will be 1.5 billion less than we had predicted for 2020, but also the unemployment forecasted to be 18.9% in 2020 and will be, according to my own assessment and on the basis of the figures as I see them, below and from 17.3% in 2019. So, basically in this area, the Greek Government has done everything possible to tackle the crisis in the best possible way for the weak, the unemployed, our fellow citizens who have lost their jobs and for the rest to keep jobs for businesses. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-21-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-21-S1-commons.u24	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-21-S1-commons.u25	Yes, but you'll have to answer later, Mr. Catrin. You have a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-21-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr President. I really hear what the Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy said very much. Indeed, SYRIZA should at some point also give us an answer how all the benefits he has announced will be financed without causing deficits. That is the first question. But what Mr Brutsi has not told us is the following. After counting the 24 billion and the 5.5 billion leveraging loans from the banks, and after the bank's loans are put on them, Mr. Parliament's representatives, in the government's measures, take the loans of the debtors and citizens to manage them for the benefit of the citizens. What didn't you say? You did not say that we have a loss of revenue of 14 billion in 2020, 9 billion tax from the deadlocked policy of Mr Stavoura and Mr Vesyropoulos who insist on the twelve and twenty-four instalments that no one enters and with a maturities of 5 billion in 2020 again because of this deadlock policy. The government also insists on a strategy that increases the debts of citizens and creates a suffocating climate in the real economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-21-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-21-S1-commons.u28	Mr President, I can have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-21-S1-commons.u29	You have a minute, Mr. Brutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-21-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Now you understand that I challenge to continue my position where I left her, Mr. Katrin. Look. The side of the Change Movement, but also of the SYRIZA, have not so far been placed with a specific policy that will produce results, however, and also justify where they will draw the resources. Mr Katrinis, the Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement, is talking right now and says that we have a reduction in tax revenue - to fill in insurance revenue, a billion - in 2020. But how else would it happen, Mr. Catherine? Are you indulging the SYRIZA right now, without making self-criticism? And the insurance income covered by the state budget, be careful. As Minister of Labour in the past period together with the Government, we covered the insurance contributions in the nominal salary of all employees, because it was our priority not to lose the insurance report of each worker in his nominal salary. This created deficits because the state budget covered them. How else would the reduction of tax revenue be done with closed companies? It goes without saying that this would happen. So this is the policy that we have chosen, but a policy with which, as it seems, 2020 - as compared to the other countries - we have had visible results, in particular, recognised by the international press and by the European Commission itself. I would remind you, Mr Katrin, because it is worthwhile, because you say that we have no strategic plan and fiscal and developmental targets, that we are the government that in 2019 we reduced the company tax from 28% to 24%. We are also the government that reduced the dividend tax from 10% to 5%, which abolished HIS tax on the remote islands, which created, Mr Alexiadis, the hundreds of thousands of jobs that your party did not vote for. And you did not vote for the abolition of HPAI on the remote islands, as well as the reduction of insurance contributions by 3.6 points, which will increase the income available to both workers and businesses. In any case, a period ago, a few days ago your fellow Member, former Minister, also criticised the insurance, that he hit the middle class and the rest. Yes, we changed the insurance policy and brought the free categories, which are the choice of each freelance professional. We are talking about a million and a half people, farmers, free professionals, self-employed people, who for the first time choose for themselves - first time in the insurance sector of the country - the category they want to be subjected to. And this has given rise to the productive powers of our country, to choosing, that is, the insurance contributions they want to pay. All of this is the package of the policies and actions of our New Democracy, our Government.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-21-S1-commons.u31	Mr Alexiadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-21-S1-commons.u32	Mr President, I would like the floor for 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-21-S1-commons.u33	We are not going to make a ball, Mr Katrin, the parliamentary debate now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-21-S1-commons.u34	With Mr Besiropoulos' tolerance, I would like the floor for twenty seconds. In fact, twenty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-21-S1-commons.u35	Here you go, Mr. Catarini, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-21-S1-commons.u36	Mr Brutsis, I understand your anxiety and you are right to support the insurance contributions of those who have been suspended from work. I would, however, expect you to have the same sensitivity to pay the pensions to those who have paid insurance contributions and who, for your term of office, have been waiting for over three and a half years for three hundred thousand outstanding masters, subsidiary and one-off. So you're doing well and you're subsidising the insurance contributions, but to the people who paid for them, Mr. Brutsi, pensions didn't give your government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-21-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, too. Mr Alexiadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-21-S1-commons.u38	Mr President, I do not think that in a bill with such a large consensus and a majority, Parliamentary representatives need to be confronted at second level. Anyway, because the issues were raised, we in our position...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-21-S1-commons.u39	That is why you are taking the floor, Mr Alexiadis, because the issues have been raised.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-21-S1-commons.u40	We in our position have asked specific questions which we hope will also answer concrete proposals on which we hope to have a position. Comments now, revert etc. We can do it anytime you want. At the Government's initiative, let us have a debate here - if he does not want to do so, we will do so - to discuss both the overcrowding and the rest of the issues we have heard. Today, let us stick to the fact that Parliament sends a message against tax evasion.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-21-S1-commons.u41	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-21-S1-commons.u42	Mr. President, may I?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-21-S1-commons.u43	No, Mr. Brutsi. Perhaps the Secretary-General will give the answers. Mr. Apostolos Vésiropoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-21-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the bill obviously lacks positions and arguments on the contents, but also its aim is to push some people to launch charges for the management of the pandemic and the impact on the economy. It is a fact that we are experiencing a particularly difficult situation with asymmetric threats and risks. The government has set two priorities. The first was to promote the need to protect public health. The fact that Greece has one of the best comparative images in terms of the epidemiological load between the other European countries has justified this choice. We all stand reverently and with soul pain toward the people who have been lost. The second option of the government was expressed by measures to support businesses, workers, households, unemployed and economically weak citizens, amounting to EUR 31.5 billion. It is a given fact that we are constantly recording the financial data, updating and strengthening the support measures where necessary. The management adequacy of the previous government in the management of natural disasters and emergency situations was judged. In fact, we are talking about an established and confirmed by the facts themselves, management failure, which has been negatively assessed by the citizens. As the policy of overtaxation followed by the previous government, not only against the middle-class, has been negatively appreciated, as some officials of the Officerial Opposition have discovered recently, but also against the citizens as a whole. The Government of New Democracy, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis manages the greatest economic, health and social crisis after World War II, with the confidence of the majority of citizens. In this crisis, it seeks a budget space every time to take advantage of it in the direction of reducing taxes. The creation of a financial area is a result not only of the development process, but also of the fight against tax evasion and tax evasion. This is also the aim of the bill to be voted on today in the House. It is a continuation of institutional and legislative initiatives with our country participating actively in all the agreements promoted by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development to combat tax evasion and avoidance techniques, while strengthening international administrative cooperation through the exchange of information by the tax authorities of the Member States. Some of these agreements were voted against by SYRIZA as opposition, but as a government it voted in favour of their continuation. Today the House is voting on the ratification of the multilateral convention on the application of measures relating to tax agreements, to prevent the erosion of the tax base and the transfer of profits, which is now incorporated into national legislation. This contract was adopted in Paris on 24 November 2016 and was signed by the Hellenic Republic on 7 June 2017. The aim is to address the gaps that exist and allow some to violate the institutional framework of avoiding double taxation by exploiting the differences in the tax systems of the countries that are active. As I said to the Committee on Economic Affairs, it is estimated that the losses of tax revenue in the European Union countries from these cases of tax evasion and avoidance, range from EUR 160 to EUR 190 billion annually. What do we achieve through the content and implementation of this multilateral convention? Firstly, double taxation avoidance contracts create safeguards with anti-business clauses so that these contracts are not used as a vehicle of avoidance and abusive practices. Secondly, it improves the framework for resolving disputes in double taxation, which contributes to the consolidation of the rules of equitableness and tax justice. Thirdly, the artificial avoidance of the creation of a permanent establishment by companies which create cases of tax evasion is limited. Fourthly, it ensures that profits are taxed in the countries where the economic activity that generates these profits is carried out and where corresponding values are created. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I'm gonna need some more time, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-21-S1-commons.u45	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-21-S1-commons.u46	At a purely operational level, the activation of this multilateral contract offers another important advantage. With its ratification by each of the States participating in it, the amendment of the existing double taxation agreements which have been subject to the Multilateral Convention shall be automatically implemented. This means that there is no longer a need for a separate renegotiation of these agreements with each country. The multilateral convention lays down minimum standards which are binding on all the Member States which sign it. At the same time, however, it offers the opportunity for a minimum of flexibility in the Member States in the formulation of double taxation agreements providing for the possibility of clauses and specific procedures and provisions. What does that mean? It means that the Member States may either not apply certain provisions or apply them only to specific double taxation agreements. In these cases, it is envisaged that the list of States which have signed the Convention be posted on a specific OECD website, indicating the date on which it is signed and ratified. At the same time, each country's position is to be quoted and made public in respect of its reservations. For our country, the ratification and application of the multilateral convention for the implementation of measures relating to tax agreements to prevent the erosion of tax bases and profit displacement have specific practical benefits not only in the budgetary field, but also in the area of growth and the orderly functioning of the economy. Where are these benefits? Firstly, the imposition of rules of equitableness and healthy competition, secondly, the strengthening of healthy entrepreneurship, thirdly, the increase in public revenue, fourthly, the dismantling of administrative courts through the quicker resolution of tax disputes, fifthly, the strengthening of transparency and security in the tax field and sixthly, the savings of resources to be made for the bilateral renegotiation of any tax agreement concluded by Greece with any other country. The country and our government have a firm choice to activate but also to improve agreements on tax cooperation with other countries in order to deal with tax evasion and illegal activities. Greece participates in fifty-seven double taxation agreements on income taxes and capital, which are currently in force. I should point out with particular emphasis that each country's profitability in implementing international standards for the exchange of information in the tax field is assessed. I stress that Greece has received a positive assessment from the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. In a relevant assessment report, Greece states that Greece ensures the compliance of financial institutions with the international benchmark and internationally exchanges information with countries that meet the confidentiality and data assurance standards. Greece receives positive references not only to its participation and effectiveness in these agreements, but also to the prospects of our economy and the successful management of the pandemic. No matter how hard it is for some to accept, that's the truth. For the amendment with a general number of 715 and a special 107, ladies and gentlemen of Merra25, you know that in sanctions for international conventions it is a consistent practice not to tamper with amendments. You tabled it late and, in fact, just before the vote in plenary and cannot be accepted. Ladies and gentlemen, the government's institutional and legislative initiatives will continue. Our aim is that Greece should now be linked to positive news and reports. I urge you to vote in favour of the ratification of a multilateral convention aimed at limiting tax evasion and tax evasion at European and international level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-21-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is adjourned on the principle of the articles and the entire draft law of the Ministry of Finance: 'Movement of the Multilateral Convention for the implementation of measures relating to tax agreements to prevent the erosion of the tax base and the transfer of profits'. We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. I would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, the first article, the second article, the third article, the modal Article, and the entire bill. After your vote has been registered, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. For any question you may raise to the Bureau, so that the officials concerned may assist you. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened. [[VOCATIONAL TRAINING]] Once you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-21-S1-commons.u48	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-21-S1-commons.u49	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Undertaking of the Multilateral Convention for the implementation of measures relating to tax agreements to prevent the erosion of the tax base and the transfer of profits’ was accepted by a majority in a single debate on the principle, Articles and all of the following:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-21-S1-commons.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-21-S1-commons.u51	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-21-S1-commons.u52	With the agreement of the House at 11.24 p.m. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, 22 January 2021, at 9 p.m., on the subject of Parliament's work, parliamentary scrutiny: a) discussion of the item number 5/18-11-2020 on the topical and urgent question to the Ministers for Finance, Development and Investment, Health, Rural Development and Food; b) debate on topical and urgent questions.
