ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 6-10-2021, the minutes of its Third Meeting of Wednesday, 6 October 2021, with regard to the vote on the whole draft law: ‘Definition of contractual texts concerning the International Centre for the Development of Migration Policy (ICMPD)’.]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK A sole debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law: ‘Undertaking of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the French Republic on the establishment of a strategic partnership for defence and security cooperation’. As you know, the bill was voted by a majority vote in the Standing Committee. It shall be introduced for discussion in Parliament in accordance with Rules 14, 72(1), 112(3) of the Rules of Procedure, as well as the qualified majority required by Article 27(2) of the Constitution. Thanks to the importance of the bill, the procedure decided at the Conference of Presidents of 30 September 2021 will be followed to speak to the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, the rapporteurs and special speakers, a circle of speakers including a speaker from each parliamentary group, at the end of the day, the Minister of Foreign Affairs as an accomplice and the Minister of National Defence as signatories to the agreement. Parliamentary representatives may speak if the President of their parliamentary group has not taken the floor. As far as speaking time is concerned, I propose that rapporteurs and special speakers have speaking time for ten minutes without the right to denial, the Prime Minister and the Chief of Officerial Response twenty minutes, the Presidents of the other parliamentary groups 15 minutes, the responsible Minister for Foreign Affairs and the signatories to the agreement, the Minister of National Defence, ten minutes and those appointed by the parties - six speakers - five minutes. Parliamentary representatives have not spoken for ten minutes, since of course the President of their parliamentary group has not spoken. Finally, a roll-call vote will be held at the initiative of the President of Parliament, as provided for in Rule 27(2) of the Constitution and Article 72(1)(c) of the Rules of Procedure. Are we okay with this way? Mr. Drits wants the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. A point of order and a statement from the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group at the beginning of the debate. Mr President, since he signed this agreement and moved it very quickly to Parliament, the government has declared to all tons that this is a historic agreement. We will not comment on this, we are not questioning the importance of this agreement, on the contrary, with our own approach, and we consider it to be very important and very serious, whether it will prove historical, to be a matter of the future. With this in mind, the ratification of this agreement, so important, by the Greek Parliament, requires that all margins be exhausted, in accordance with both the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, for the participation of the maximum number of Members in this debate, because Parliament is responsible for ratifying this agreement. It is not just the government's responsibility, and the historical perspective of the House is charging it or crediting it. From this point of view, the invocation of Rules 28 of the Constitution, in conjunction with Rules 112 and 113 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, gives the opportunity to prevail political and institutional criteria for holding the debate. We raised this issue in good time, from the last days and yesterday, in the Conference of Presidents, by the former President of Parliament, Mr Nikos Voutsi. It wasn't accepted. Today, as a parliamentary representative, on behalf of the SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance, calling, as a minimum, for enlargement to be added, limited enlargement - to accept to some extent the pressure of time and much more - by adding another circle of MPs - twelve in total, with the ratio per party - so that it really can, in part, be cured, even at least - I repeat - this necessity which I described before. I appeal to you, Mr President, to the Bureau, but also to the House, because it is a real issue, it is not a point of order. I call on everyone to make a contribution so that the debate can be extended even in this way. I would add - I have heard it now - that a special provision will be applied in this debate that if the Heads of State or Government are to speak, they will not even speak at all, the parliamentary representatives will not even take the floor. And you understand that this is not a personal matter, because in today's sitting my party has made the honour of nominating me as a Parliamentary representative. It is not possible to hold this debate sufficiently well, to inform the Greek people, to get serious arguments out of the way and on such a crucial issue with this Regulation. It is precisely in the same logic and only with this logic that I announce to you, Mr President, and to the House that the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group - a Progressive Alliance - will table a proposal for a roll-call vote, precisely because it is a necessity that corresponds to the seriousness of the issue without measuring, precisely because we have to have the whole House as speakers, but also with personal responsibility and not through the declared commitment to take a stand on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u3	The roll-call vote referred to above will take place shortly after the conclusion of the debate on the Convention. Mr. Voutsis, former President of Parliament, is entitled to the floor. Come on.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u4	Mr President, I shall not repeat what Mr Dritsas said as a parliamentary representative at all. After all, yesterday the Conference of Presidents was given the opportunity to discuss both 108, 112, 113 and 27 and 28 of the Constitution, etc. It's a political matter. With its political dimension, we have received your first response yesterday. I hope that the answer you and the House will give will be in another direction. I am telling you straight away: In the debate on the Prespecies Agreement, which was also a very serious agreement, in which there were different opinions - because on this issue, which we will be discussing today in committee, three parties voted in favour - there has been a debate for three days with two hundred speakers and on the basis of these articles to which you referred today that this debate has been introduced. Then, when there was a second debate on the admission of northern Macedonia to NATO - remember it, it was also a very serious treaty - with a cross-party consensus and because almost all the MPs had taken part in the three-day debate, there was a debate on how Mr Dritsa now proposes, namely, that there should be at least a circle of 14 MPs at the time - it was then eight parties, not six, as now - in addition to the rapporteurs and one-member cycle, and it took a whole day indeed, the leaders of the parties again spoke to the minor importance - because I was following it - a convention with regard to the recognition of northern Macedonia. These are the most recent legacy - let me - data on the basis of which, unanimously, all the wings have gone. It is not possible today - I would say neither obsessed nor sterile - to deny that there is not even a further cycle to speak five - six people from each party, when it is a given one - and I repeat, Mr President, and thank you for giving me the floor - that there are three different parties on the subject, which must also be given great interest in this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u5	Well, I wanted to tell you this. As regards case-law, typically in the Minutes, none of the previous agreements came before the House on the basis of Article 27 of the Constitution. It is one of the rare cases where we have an agreement to which, on the basis of the report, Article 27 of the Constitution applies. It is for this reason that we shall vote roll-call on my own rare initiative, I mean the President of Parliament, as I have explained to you at the beginning of my presentation, because this procedure requires the declared absolute majority rather than the document that has a common draft law. Secondly, it is not the gravity and the historical obviously importantness of the bill the procedural shattering. That is why we decided unanimously at the Conference of Presidents which dealt with today's debate as I described it. In fact, then, we said that the process would be even more closely linked, but we accepted a proposal from the Change Movement formulated by the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Constantinople, and with no objection we added all six speakers equally to each parliamentary group. In other words, the Members who speak - the few, but that is what we decided - are not in line with the correspondence of the parties, there is full equality. On the other hand, the presence of the Heads of Government in this debate covers, in my opinion, politically - as you have raised it politically - the view of the parties, which is why the heads of the parties will follow, and, if I may say so, heavy - in the good sense - express the views of the parties. In yesterday's Conference of Presidents, which was not an appeal to the previous Conference which we unanimously decided what I have proposed today, it was indeed the view that it would be appropriate for us to open it up and speak out twelve other Members. That's not acceptable. We have talked about it and today we are introducing what I have announced at the beginning. I do not feel that in this House there is a limitation of speech, despite the forced oppression we suffer from the pandemic. Whether technologically or lively we enjoy freedom of speech and many bills, as you know, there is also a free registration. The procedure for such agreements that are not at all common - and that is why I call on Article 27, not for formal reasons or to deny the political significance of the debates - is what we have all decided together in a democratic and simple manner. I understand that ex post there has been a differentiation. We heard it yesterday at the Conference. It was not accepted, and I would therefore like us today to proceed with the debate on this very historic draft law, asking the House to express its opinion on the proposal I made on how to hold the debate. So do you accept the proposal I make to you on how to hold the debate?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u6	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u7	It is clear that the majority accepted the way in which we decided to hold the debate at the Conference and which was confirmed today by the plenary decision. The rapporteur, Mr Lazarides, then has the floor for his ten-minute speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by reminding you of a number of agreements. Thanks to these, the Greek Government managed in two years to restore its national prestige, political dynamism and diplomatic leadership in all directions. Agreement with Italy on the demarcation of maritime zones, an agreement with Egypt on the demarcation of the EEZ, a memorandum of understanding with the Arab League, an agreement with the United Arab Emirates, a memorandum of understanding for the establishment of consultations with the Gulf Cooperation Council, in principle agreement with Albania on the referral of the issue of demarcation of the EEZ to The Hague, supply of combat aircraft Raphala. Today we have before us a deal that changes the terms of the game. My reference to achieving the above agreements in a short political time is not for reasons of impression, but also to underline that the agreement that we will ratify reflects the literal implementation of the strategic planning of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis. At the same time, it is the practical proof of extremely sharp reflexive response to the escalating threats. It confirms the flexible adaptability shown by our country's foreign and national defence ministries in a landscape that is drastically changing and changing structurally. Right - quite rightly, the agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the French Republic on the establishment of the strategic partnership for defence and security cooperation is an agreement that must make us all nationally proud, nothing more, nothing less. The reasons are obvious. It is an agreement that helps our country to upgrade its geopolitical footprint, bring it to the heart of every process in our wider region, but, above all, its structure touches on the boundaries of the single defence doctrine with France, a country which is the most powerful military force in Europe with nuclear power and a permanent member of the United Nations Security Council and with which we share a history of understanding, but also we share threat contexts, a country which proposes the defence of international law and, in particular, the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. Ladies and gentlemen, my pursuit was and remains my suggestion of having a national and a celebratory tone, just as it suits an agreement that first contains a very strong clause of mutual defence assistance. This is the first time that it has been included in a bilateral agreement so clearly such a guarantee for the country. It is the most binding aid clause in the event of a war we have ever had in legally binding texts, without even contradicting the collective support commitments that exist in both NATO and the European Union. It complements and strengthens them and, at the same time, creates fertile ground for positive developments, particularly in the context of collective European defence and security. Secondly, it gives Greece at a critical point in time when the United States specialises their new strategic priority, which concerns their presence in the Indonesian area, the possibility of cooperating with a long-term perspective to be upgraded by an observer to a strong defence and diplomatic factor. Thirdly, in addition to the defensive, it also has a positive financial footprint, because while it has cost much less than the initial offer, this provision can be served by the financial area we have. The fact is that Greece had not invested in its Navy for nearly thirty years as regards the acquisition of new surface vessels. The last market was 1992 with the fresh MEOs. This is at the most interesting price today, while it is an option to which the decision of the Navy was primarily burdened. Fourthly, it brings Greece at the heart of a major Europe initiative tomorrow, because the agreement is the starting point and the precursor for more systematic cooperation in the area of defence and security between the European states. Greece will now be able to reconcile the yet demand for European strategic autonomy at a time when Europe must finally align its geopolitical power with its economic power. Of course, we must not degrade the predictions of deepening relations in central areas of security, defence and information. Of course I will add the opportunities to upgrade the Greek defence industry and the prospects for cooperation with a large number of Greek enterprises that the agreement provides. I also underline the prediction that the parties have the main responsibility for their defence and security. At the same time, the Atlantic Alliance remains the foundation of their collective defence. In simple terms, the agreement while it builds on a bilateral basis does not break down the multilateral provision of the country's structural security interests. I think that all of this is entirely justified by the national as well as the formal tone that I wanted to give to this agreement. Besides, this character is confirmed against the voices of our angry neighbours, voices that cannot hide the indisputable truth that Greece is determinedly claiming. So far, it would be all right. Unfortunately, the national climate is ruining one thing, the unrepentant opportunism and the populism of Officerial counter-population. I told you in committee, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. This agreement forbids anyone who feels Greek to see it short-sighted, to see it drunk, to see it with truly incomprehensible party criteria. Unfortunately, you are insisting and not only are insisting, but you are getting more and more immersed in the bogus of unreliable arguments to an extent that leads you to a slippery and dangerous path. What do I mean? Of course I cannot help talking about Mr Skourletis's grave sliding, a horrific delicacy that goes beyond all reasonable constructive opposition. The suggestions by Mr Skourletis that there may also be a question of 'black' money in agreement with the signature of President McCron, Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the Foreign and National Defence Ministers of the two countries are a heavy slip. I expect and expect - I think - all the restoration of moral and political order by the Chief of Staff. Such agreements must build on what has been built by all Greek governments. It's fair to disagree. This is predicted by the differences in our political approach to matters, but disagreement on issues of national importance is unsatisfactory, especially when you are basically admitting the correctness of this agreement. I would like to mention what Mr Katrugalos, the former Minister for Foreign Affairs, started by your rapporteur. What did he say in his report at first? "We have strategically described the approach of Greece and France. This is not only because France, as a Mediterranean navy, has an irresponsible national interest to oppose the promotion of power and the violation of international legality on the part of Turkey, but also because France in our common European home has positions that are closest to what we seek as a country and to what Europe's progressive forces should seek for their future." This is the right approach and the best reading of the agreement with France. In this context they don't fit, dogmatic ideals don't fit old-fashioned, they don't fit short-sighted party exploitation. The choice is one and it is a horizontal national. In the hope that this concept will prevail, in the hope that you will have the political honesty and sense of your parliamentary role, I invite you to return to the national line of national unity. And to remind you of what that is, I close by saying that national homogeneity is renewed and in negotiation the will but also the mandate of the Greek people for preparedness and determination towards any threat is reflected in our homeland. That is what the agreement we have to ratify today does to the letter. And it is true that I am proud to recommend her vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u9	Thank you to Mr Lazarides and to the impressive respect of time. I now call on the SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr Georgios Katrugalo, to step in.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u10	Mr President, there has been a reference to my face and I want the floor on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u11	There was no reference to your name from those that need to be explained. It was a vexation wish. The wishes are either fulfilled or not fulfilled. It wasn't anything that offended you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u12	Mr President, there has been a personal designation that is degrading to my face.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u13	I can assure you that there has been no definite designation. Don't worry, it's not...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u14	(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u15	Mrs. Fotio, at the beginning I saw, I was terrified! Easy, easy. Come on, Mr. Skourlet. We're not going to ruin today's conversation with shatters. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u16	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your understanding, and I do not think it is to be a sympathetic one that you may have on your face, but that is how the Rules provide when someone tells someone that he is fearful, because he refuses to answer the essential issues raised by the Qualified Opposition, issues relating to the overall defence strategy. Instead of answering how new equipment can be announced in addition to staff suggestions, beyond the institutional procedures provided for...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u17	This does not seem to me to be a matter, however.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u18	We have an institutional obligation as a Qualified Opposition to ask questions, much more so that the memory of great scandals around arms issues is still fresh. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] So, one should not only be, it should appear and be, in a country with other priorities, because the limit of the necessary equipment from super armaments seems to have passed it, when there are fifteen thousand dead in that country since the pandemic and there is not a single euro increase in doctors' wages...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u19	Now that's another matter!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u20	When it's not based on an ERC, you have to understand that billions are not tunnels and we have other priorities, so...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u21	All right, all right. The debate should be kept at the level of its history. If we're barely trying to stumble on her now, we're all being judged. Come on, Mr Katrugale, you have the floor as SYRIZA's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, with a sense of patriotic responsibility, we asked you at the committee meeting to fill the basic void, the basic infamous point in our agreement on the protection of our national interests and to ask France for a statement that this agreement provides for assistance and in the event of an infringement of the EEZ and the continent. You didn't do that. What you did not do was the EURACTIV International Network which asked a question to the French Ministry of Foreign Affairs: does this agreement cover the EEZ and the continental shelf? He answered in writing - I will submit the answer - the French Ministry of Foreign Affairs that the Defence Agreement with Athens does not include the AEZ. The Military Status Analysis (PSC), the official institutional text of the Armed Forces and the National Military Strategy (NSC) based on this identifys Turkey's main threats in the last period precisely in maritime economic zones. This essential need is covered by the agreement. And, ladies and gentlemen, do we need these institutional military analyses? We do not know for ourselves that Turkish aggression in 2020 was particularly expressed: with the unprecedented violation of our sovereign rights on its continent by 'Oruts Race', with the direct invitation that the government actually addressed to Turkey saying that our dominance is six miles, that this is the red line. I have heard the New Democracy's dear rapporteur declare national pride. Nationally proud you felt, Mr. Comrade, when in April of this year the French research vessel, which carried out investigations within the exclusive economic zone that we had just defined with Egypt, was harassed by a Turkish warship and asked the question by the Government representative, the voice of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, that "this is not the job of Greece". And a few days ago we had no further harassment within the FOZ of the same French ship? Some have said that harassment was under six miles. And today that we are talking about, dear Minister of Defence, we have new illegal NAVTEX on behalf of Turkey in the course of Southcal Geo. I ask you directly. Will you ask, on the basis of this aid agreement, for our warship that I hope will accompany the South Geo to be accompanied by a French french french? Or will Turkey trivialise the evil and harass the ship again within the continental shelf and our exclusive economic zone undisturbed? Will you continue not to tell the Greek people the truth invoking the so-called 'historical' agreements, not being able to defend our country's sovereign rights? And you will continue to mislead the people and on the second black point that this agreement has, for the first time since the Korean Greek militant force war, with the risk of having dead Greek soldiers in an area that is not France's territory, but is a former colony. Where is my claim here that you are not telling the truth to the Greek people? You are trying to create confusion between the integrated Sahel strategy that the European Union has established and which we support, because we want Europe to have strategically autonomous foreign policy and autonomous strategic defence from NATO and the United States and which does not provide for the dispatch of combat bodies to Sub-Saharan Africa, with the separate operation of France Barkan and Takuba, which have started since 2014, with the development of five thousand soldiers, who are engaged in military operations in the war zone, already with dozens of dead. This, ladies and gentlemen, does not only jeopardise the lives of the Greek fans who are going there, but is a major change in the example of the country's foreign policy, since it is also combined with the whole reasonable expedition from Patriot to Saudi Arabia, which will for the first time involve Greek forces in an intra-Arab conflict, in a Shia-Sunni conflict, in a terrible war with victims of young children. It says in an article that the Minister for Foreign Affairs in the 'NEA' that this creates a bridge between our country's sub-Saharan Africa, the Middle East and Europe. The very opposite: you are cutting off the possibilities for Greece to be a real bridge between our political home, Europe, and these countries, where every time we went as Foreign Ministers, what were we talking about? That Greece was never a colonial power. Our dispersal has never had relations of sovereignty in the countries in which it lived. He had relationships of peaceful coexistence with local communities. That is why we could be a credible interlocutor in both Tehran and Riyadh, we could offer our services without being part of the problem. You're overthrowing this. Refuse a country's permanent peaceful policy without getting anything back in return. You thrive on patriotism. Instead of taking advantage of the criticism we make you are making to improve the agreement, which has huge, monstrous gaps, as Constantine Karamanlis did in the corresponding criticism of Andreas Papandreou with "Drop the Hora", you have chosen not to tell the truth to the Greek people and to involve the country in the remodeling of its permanent foreign policy with enormous risks, without getting anything back for it. I could say more, but I would also like to refer to supplies and, indeed, to how the country's merits are guaranteed, because our joint effort must always be how we best protect the national interests of Turkey and Turkey and the great needs of the crisis and the pandemic. Let me first say that we had agreed to build the wells in Greece. Refreshments are essential for national defence, and that is why they were programmed by our government. I will return to Mr. Mitsotakis' renaissances in this field. We agreed, therefore, that the freshmen would be built in Greece. The corresponding forecasts for cooperation at defence industry level, in the agreement, are simpler. 'As far as possible' says Article 25. No forecasts are available for the wells. You've abandoned the defensive industry in her luck. Until yesterday I heard - not with horror - that even the cartridges of the Greek Army will no longer be produced by the NSAs, but that they will also be included in a new large supply, which you have proposed to the Committee on Armaments. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] A slight tolerance, Mr President. I'll try to be consistent. Let us now go to the issue of armaments. We say that the country needs sufficient defence. What does "sufficient defense" mean? To have our Armed Forces the deterrent power not to even think of anyone - and especially the known country - to proceed to any exodus. Who can tell us what is adequate defense? The country's Armed Forces. For this reason, and in order not to return to the misery and the parties of the past, we have agreed on a process in which in four stages - starting from the highest councils of the branches, progressing to the Directorate-General for Equipment, the General Staff Council, finally in the Defence Council - the physical military leadership of the Armed Forces itself to determine what its needs are. We did this for the first time in the Memorandum of Understanding and upgrading of the F-16 and planned the market of the three freshmen Belaras, which are necessary to provide defence for an open sea area - where Turkey's aggression is mainly being exercised - and we have ensured the interim upgrading of the NGO with the maintenance of their mid-life until the frigates are delivered. What did Mr. Mitsotakis do? At first he left the well market, saying it's accurate. Mr. Loverdos reminded the committee that the Minister of National Defence had said that we cannot buy them anymore because the Council of State imposed EUR 3 billion retrospectively for the anti-constitutional insurance laws of the PASOK-New Democracy period. In return he announced the Rafah market, which had not been planned and was not proposed by the Armed Forces. It had not gone through any of the institutional stages I mentioned, nor has it been planned and prioritised. And now we have heard from the footstep of Thessaloniki the purchase of six additional Rafalis, which again Mr. Mitsotakis, as if he were the same owner of the country, as actually "Maximos SA.'" He proclaimed, without having passed this from any advancement of the Armed Forces. I read in your newspapers welcome these successive markets. Yesterday, your friendly newspaper, the "PRO THEMA" said: "Regional military superpower becomes Greece". That ensures the necessary balance, though? What was announced yesterday by Turkey? The market for forty F-16 Block 70 and the modernization of eighty F-16 at Viper level. It is obvious that Turkey, with a greater economic depth than us, if we do not have a strategically planned defence policy, but we simply buy what Mr Mitsotakis wants for reasons of the impression of the Greeks and not for the real service of the needs of the country, will be able to take advantage of markets, because it has four times the largest Gross National Product than we do, because its public debt is 37%, and the main reason why 75% of its military needs are covered by the defence industry, while you have left NSAs and EAB in their mercy, cannot even produce the bullets that the Greek Army needs. It is not from an abstract palsiticism, then, which we say you are involved in a harmful armaments race, which increases the defence budget by 40%, while it reduces the health budget by 12%. Yes, peace is a statute for the Left, for the progressive powers and every reasonable man, every Greek, every patriotic peace wants. However, we are saying this and why the armaments race really undermines the country's defence capabilities. This is how the Soviet Union collapsed, ladies and gentlemen. I'll be done. It's your political and abstract diplomacy. Diplomacy gives solutions, ladies and gentlemen. We asked you to promote the appeal to The Hague by asking Turkey to commit itself to the last European Council and not to grant free of charge the upgrading of the customs union that wanted it and the countries that have traded with it. You have ignored our calls to seek a peaceful solution to the dispute through diplomacy, the only way that there is to resolve the differences, the way we have shown you by the Ambassadors' agreement. We will continue to propose this integrated policy that promotes solutions through diplomacy, which protects sovereign rights through effective deterrence, this policy that you do not have, the one we and the one we are going to implement again, when we are called upon to govern the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u23	Now the special speakers, with the special speaker of the Change Movement, Mr. Konstantinos Scandalidis, are following. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, ratification of this agreement, in our view, is a golden opportunity for a wider debate on the issues of the national strategy, not, obviously, to change it - why do we not have such a right - but could we detect the scope of a national understanding and - why not? - consensus, where possible, on the country's overall course, on the new national objectives and the necessary strategy, which is necessary in the current circumstances and circumstances. It is clear that we do not see this debate as a controversy of patriotism and that it does not offer for communication channels, barren controversy and inexpensive rhetoric. And I place myself in the first place. Is today's agreement in the overall strategy a step or not? Is it a historic agreement where all the Greeks have to rescind it or are it to condemn it? Neither one nor the other. We consider it a positive step, with strong advantages, but also with some significant disadvantages, which should be reviewed or improved in the course of the process. That is why you will allow me to make a reference in principle to the great picture of developments in our wider region. It is clear that the Pacific Agreement prevented and surprised the European Union and severely affected France not only economically but also geopolitically. Obviously, it is no coincidence that he has rushed to present today's agreement, which for some time now seemed to be on the shelf, the particular juncture and the time involved. The United States is leaving Afghanistan and is moving the field of conflict to the Pacific with a clear target for China. The easy conclusion that they also leave the Eastern Mediterranean would be dangerous naive. It is no coincidence that while they have accepted the Greek agreement without reaction, they are rushing to sign the long-designed defence cooperation with us. At the same time, in the region Turkey insists on and escalates the regional power strategy in the Eastern Mediterranean as part of the expansion and revision of its strategic conditions. These are new developments and they are developments that dictate very carefully to address the new national objectives and to determine what, in our opinion, in the coming years would be the central aim of this country in this corner of the world. Greece must exploit the favourable juncture and plan, claim and conquer the central national objective of the coming years, which is nothing but the geostrategic upgrading of the country in the wider region. This objective is divided into two main axes: The first axis is the return after fifteen barren years in the centre of European developments. The agreement is a step in this direction. It strengthens our country in the European field. Do not overestimate it, but it contributes not only to strengthening the deterrent force, but also to the prospect of CEPA and the overall need for Europe to design its common defence and foreign policy. At the same time, we must fight for a multi-faceted strengthening of the effort of a new treaty and speed up the procedures that would bring the European Union a strong player in the region. And here this agreement has its positive footprint. The second is an overall renegotiation in our alliances with the West of the country's role in the region. We have criticised, ladies and gentlemen, on the two voyages by the Prime Ministers, Mr Tsipras and Mr Mitsotakis, which have been made in recent years in the United States, for journeys that have actually brought rhetoric agreements with the service of our own interests but have not had any real geostrategic or economic consideration. At a time when Greece gives bases, it expands its cooperation, does not take the corresponding role it should play in the region. Now it opens up a debate if the agreement which will be signed with America is defence cooperation, is five years old, or is indefinite. I hope that the government will take the right approach to this and indeed seek a certain time-lag that will give us the opportunity to have increased participation in developments in the region. In order to implement this strategy, there are certain specific conditions: The first of these is the country's deterrent and defensive ability. Evidently, it is strengthened by the agreement. The second is aggressive diplomacy on a multilateral and bilateral level. We have heard the new Republic's rapporteur on the agreements signed by the Government. In all agreements there were gaps, more characteristicly, that we did not dare go to the south of Crete and give a more substantial answer to the problems we face with the external threat from Turkey. The third is the search for solutions on the basis of the rules of international law and the sluggish internal front. And there is always in all these initiatives the economic aspect of the problem that is very critical of the country's productive reconstruction. A negotiation, then, must cover all these needs and bring far more integrated agreements and conventions to enable the country to fulfil its basic strategic objective and role in the region. Let's go to the deal now. I must say, ladies and gentlemen, that, in view of the overall and, if you like, of all this movement, I do not understand the self-determination of a negative vote, despite the fact that the agreement has substantial shortcomings. For us it is a positive step. There is one question of the way and the timing of the negotiation which, in our view, the government has not exhausted the limits and possibilities it has had to do in a better manner. One of the most characteristic examples is this question of sovereignty and sovereign rights, namely that the agreement speaks of sovereignty, mutual assistance in matters of violation of sovereignty and not of sovereign rights, it is a narrow concept of our ability to respond to a Turkish challenge, an armed - if you like - a choice that Ankara will make. And when we say 'principal rights', we do not generally say the rights we claim and have not been defined at the moment. We are talking about the demarcated zones, about all that can enable a foreign force, such as France, to join us in a war - say - with Turkey. I think that is an important weakness that should be corrected. The second negative point in the agreement is that while it is being understood, there is no explicit link with the Treaty of Lisbon to the 'Mutual Assistance' clause of 42.7 of the Treaty of Lisbon. It is not that it does not conflict, it is not enough 'do not conflict', it should be linked, in order to predetermin the attitude of the other European forces in a possible confrontation with Turkey. Because they can very easily distance themselves if they consider the agreement to be partial in relation to European developments and as bilaterals they do not want to implement the debt they have in terms of mutual assistance. Also, there are simplistic and little precise expressions, such as 'armed violence' and not'military means', as well as others in the agreement, which appear to be sketchy on many points. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And the last point we have to make in terms of the agreement is to decouple it from any part of the country's productive reconstruction. What does that mean for our war industry? When our technological production is so long that the commitments concern our country's commitments, this will only work in favour of us in the defence industry armaments sector, if our country develops a similar strategy, for example, in the Medium-term Defence Equipment Programme, there will be French choices with transfer of investments and production in Greece. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANAOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] And, of course, where greater emphasis should be given and there is no need to support and regenerate the shipyards in our country, as a very large part of the construction of weapons, which we agree with France, could be built in Greece. You know what? Let me tell you one example: Turkey may have a major economic crisis, but it has never made any cooperation with countries such as America or any other country, without budgeting the added value of its domestic production to contribute to the implementation of this agreement, and there is no such commitment here. On the contrary, everything seems to be happening in France. It is clear that the agreement cannot be changed. Corrigendums, omissions, incompatible terms could be covered either by an exchange of letters - you know that very well - either by a private communication or by an interpretative statement. We believe that from now on you should not sit on the laurels of the history of the agreement you signed, you should try to improve the irrationalities that exist, which are not of importance, are not rhetorical, are not verbal. And finally, negotiate with some comfort in time to be able not to subdue to the processes or targets set by other forces, because it is clear that France sought to bring immediately, to show its strength and strategy in the region, the bilateral agreement with us, and Greece has rushed to sign for the fryers and to create the agreement that is our own against this economic transaction with France. So no triumphs, no stubbornness, no unscrupulous rhetorics and free patriotism! The moments are very critical and the country must find its pace. The parties of the Greek Parliament also have to enter this debate in a spirit of understanding and cooperation, so that we can achieve the next difficult steps for our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr. Scandalides. Until the Edrano is ready and given the floor to the Special Speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to you that the Ministers for Environment, Energy, Economic Development and Investment, National Defence, Education and Religious Affairs, Labour and Social Affairs, Health, Citizen Protection, Culture and Sport, Justice, Interior, Infrastructure and Transport, Maritime Policy, Rural Development and Food, Climate Crisis and Civil Protection, and the Deputy Ministers for Finance, Development, Foreign Affairs and Home Affairs have tabled a draft law on ‘Integration of Directive (EU) 2018/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2018 on the amendment of Directive 2012/27/EU on energy efficiency, Regulation 2018/1999/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council and of the Council of 11 December 2012 on the Renewal and Renewal of the Energy Union (OJ L 206, 11.8.2018, p. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Mr Marinos, special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor. Here, Mr Marino, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr President. The government is attempting to give historical character to the Greek-French agreement, but in vain. In practice it has been shown that the agreements that are historical to the sovereign order are harmful to the people's forces. The JRC substantiates that the Greek agreement does not serve our people and the country's defence, but that the general objectives of the French and Greek bourgeoisie within the framework of the Euro-Atlantic strategy in the race with competitive forces. The Communist Party of Greece opposes the Greek-French agreement for the following reasons: the agreement recognises NATO, a murder mechanism against the peoples, as the foundation of European security and highlights the role of the European Union's common security and defence policy, which is behind dozens of foreign operations. In other words, the agreement is based on two main pillars of imperialist intervention and war. It opens the way to French military bases and infrastructures in Greece next to the Americans, adopts all the pretexts used in imperialist interventions and provides for the dispatch of Greek Armed Forces abroad. The Government presents Article 2 on assistance and assistance in the event of an armed attack on the territory of one of the two states as a sign of salvation in the Turkish challenges. And we ask, where did the well-known NATO and the European Union support clauses go? What remains in hand, ladies and gentlemen, from Article 2 of the Agreement is the dispatch of Greek military forces to Mali and more generally to the Sahel region in Africa and more generally to the Sahel region in Africa and to other dangerous missions, so that the government can assist the French troops. And this is a challenge for our people. The SYRIZA's position that the choices of the agreement are in principle strategically correct unwinds the government's policy and is confusing that imperialist alliances can guarantee the country's sovereign rights. SYRIZA pleads hypocritically against a Greek military mission in Sahel and claims that this mission or other imperialist missions are acceptable, they are good if they are covered by the European Union. Of course, it is well known that the escalation of aggression and the escalation of European troops into Africa and other regions is a strategic objective of the European Union. To stand up to one more claim. The Greek-French agreement provides for the so-called'strategic autonomy' of the European Union and the establishment of a Eurostrate. That's what the government, SYRIZA and KINAL support. They support a military mechanism, organised militia, which, independently, either in cooperation with the United States and NATO, will operate throughout the countryside in new interventions and imperialist wars for the interests of the European monopolies. Only, they say, that this action that will result in death and extend misery and refugee will be seen as a European perfume. That's what they tell us outrageously. The people must fight these positions. The truth is that the Greek-French partnership and the agreements concluded by the government with the US, the United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia and Israel lead Greece to engage in wider fields of geopolitical controversy and fuel competition with Nato-Turkey. The myth has been destroyed that the imperialist states and their allies can secure peace and security in the region, support the sovereignty and sovereign rights of Greece and Cyprus. The examples are many. The United States, NATO and the European Union have criminal responsibilities for the Cyprus tragedy, the occupation and partitioning of the island. Under their noses, Greek borders are challenged, the domination of Greek islands is violated, the airspace and sea space are escalating, the challenges, such as these days east of Crete, from Kastelorizo to the Cyprus exclusive economic zone. A year ago, Cyprus signed a defensive agreement with France. The French energy colossal "TOTAL" has set foot in the Cypriot AOZ, but these did not stop Turkish claims. The situation deteriorated with the opening of the enclosed city of Ammochostos. What determines the attitude of your imperialist alliances, gentlemen of the government and other parties, is their interests, their strategic relationship with Turkey and its secondment from Russia's influence, the strengthening of NATO's South East Wing to competition with Russia and China, but also the business between the urban classes. France is a strong imperialist force fulfilling a special role in the Euro-Atlantic Alliance. He has nuclear weapons, eleven military bases abroad, has participated in the Euro-Atlantic wars in Afghanistan, Iraq, Syria, Libya, Côte d'Ivoire, Chad, Somalia, Mali and the Central African Republic. This is the allied force that is being projected today. The French bourgeoisie claims to increase its position. It extends its intervention throughout the countryside and expands its alliances for its own interests. He seeks a better place in the campaign of NATO and the European Union with Russia and China. You cannot, therefore, cultivate false expectations for salvages of French interventions in the Aegean Sea and the Eastern Mediterranean. Every kind of allied intervention, whatever name, assistance or assistance appears, has the stamp of their own geopolitical pursuits, throws oil into the fire and complicates the problems. The government is exaggerating the fighter Raphala and the fresh Bellaras, and there are three crucial issues. First, Greek frigates are patrolling in many parts of the horizon. Aircraft F -16 guard the air space of Albania, northern Macedonia and Montenegro. You sent, gentlemen of the government, Patriot gunfighting in Saudi Arabia against Iran to the position of American Patriot headed in the Indonesian. And these prove that the equipment does not serve the country's defence, but NATO needs and your allied missions abroad for the needs of the bourgeoisie. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The so-called 'allied obligations' that all governments are invoking relate also to armaments in line with the interoperability commitments of NATO and the European Union military systems, the integration into their missions and not the needs of the country's defence from the point of view of the people's interests. We stress that the Greek Armed Forces and the media have no place either in Persian or in Africa, they have no work outside the border. Secondly, for the naval needs our people pay more than EUR 4 billion a year and will pay many more billions for the new orders. You also rob workers from taxation and claim that there is no financial possibility for health, education, wages and pensions. You give little money for firefighting, flooding, earthquake patients. Thirdly, your policy fuels the armaments race. You showed the effectiveness of the Raphah fighters and Turkey hosted thirty-five Rafalis from Qatar. And you are well aware that both in the Rafalis and in the freshwaters Turkey responds with S -400 and a new armament programme. The Greek-French agreement is in the same direction as the Greek-American agreement on military bases. The government continues its policy of strategic dialogue with the USA launched by the SYRIZA Government. He signed the Greek-American Agreement in 2020, upgraded Souda, built bases in Alexandroupolis, Larissa, the Stefanovich used to surround Russia. Now the government is provokingly preparing the new five - or indefinite agreement, with new bases in Kavala, Xanthi or elsewhere. Please beg for a base on Skyros. You have turned the country into an imperialist bay and a retaliation target that is very dangerous. You put the people in great danger. As we have said in committee, the Communist Party of Greece is voting against the Greek-French agreement and calls on the people not to give the basis of the ruling drum impacts, to strongly condemn the policy of involvement, to strengthen the fight against NATO and the European Union, to dismantle the US bases. Our people have to go through the counterattack, behave with the power of capital to overturn it, build relations of mutual benefit and live in peace with neighboring peoples. The Communist Party of Greece will table a proposal for a roll-call vote on this agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u27	The roll-call vote referred to above will take place shortly after the conclusion of the debate on the Convention. Thank you, Mr. Marino. The next speaker, Mr. Mylonakis, from the Greek Solution, has the floor. In the meantime, I would like to inform you that my colleague, Mr Constantine Vlasis, is requesting permission from his absence abroad for personal reasons from 11 October 2021 to 19 October 2021. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u28	The House therefore approved the requested permission. I would also like to inform you of the topical and urgent question report on Friday 8 October 2021, which reads as follows: A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 18/4-10-2021 by MP Carditsa, New Democracy Mr Georgios Kotsou, Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: ‘Possibility of subsidising farmers of a photovoltaic system for offsetting produced - consumed energy’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 14/4-10-2021 topical question by SYRIZA MEP - Progressive Alliance Mr. Socrates Famelou to the Minister of Climate Crisis and Civil Protection, on the subject: "The problem of fire protection in the Sheik Sou is exacerbated by unauthorized and responsible confrontations". 3. The question by No 1/4-10-2021 of the Member of the State of Change Movement Mr. Georgios Kamine to the Minister of Climate Crisis and Civil Protection on the subject: ‘Principal control of the country's building stock and structural support programmes’. 4. The 3/4-10-2021 topical question by MP 2 Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Leonidas Stoltides to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Harpa the 1st High School and the 2nd High School of Lagada in Regional Unit (IP) Thessaloniki". 5. The 15/4-10-2021 topical question by MP Heraklion of Mera25 Mr Georgios Logiades to the Minister of Finance on the subject: "Let the government clarify the intentions of the GOI for the airport of Nikos Kazantzakis" Heraklion. B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 25/4-10-2021 by MP Evros of New Democracy, Anastasios Anastasios (Tasu) Treasury to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The vertical energy axis will offer a valuable development advantage to the Prefecture of Evros". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 17/4-10-2021 topical question by SYRIZA MEP - Progressive Alliance Mr. Socrates Famelou to the Minister of Climate Crisis and Civil Protection, on the subject: "In the National Park of Schinia - Marathon, a crime was committed against the environment and biodiversity". 3. The Question No 33/4-10-2021 by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the subject: "Aid for the reconstruction of the earthquake in Arkalochori". 4. The Question No 5/4-10-2021 by F' Vice President of Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Georgios Lambroulis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "To withdraw the illegal and vengeance of the trade unionist, working at the "Praktiker Hellas" store in Larissa". 5. The Question No 31/4-10-2021 by MP B2 'West Sector Athens of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Civil Protection, on the subject: 'Unpredictable police violence against the citizens of Tinos'. 6. The question asked by MP B1' North Athens, Neo Democrat Georgios Koumoutsakos to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "North Cycling Axis Attica". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The 19/4-10-2021 topical question by MP B2' Western Athens Department of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Charulas (Haras) Kafantaris to the Minister of Civil Protection, on the subject: "Protection of citizens in western Athens". 8. The question by number 344-10-2021 of the current question by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassiliou Kegeroglou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport on the subject: "Measures and procedures for supporting those affected by the catastrophic earthquake". 9. The Question No 94-10-2021 by MP Achaias of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos to the Minister of Finance, on "The redundancy of thirty-six workers in the Greek Arms Industry (EBO) in Agios". 10. The Question No 21/4-10-2021 by MP V' West Attica of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr.Georgios Tsipras to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Catholic Revenue of the Public Defence Industry through the vertical fall in the production of all the factories of the NSA and the mass redundancies of the modern factories of Egypt". 11. The Question No 35/4-10-2021 by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr Vassiliou Kegeroglou to the Minister for Development and Investment on the subject: "Aid measures for business and workers in the earthquake in Arkalochori". 12. The question under number 29/4-10-2021 by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Finance, on "Thessaloniki, indirect privatisation of water and sewerage". 13. Observations of the Court of Justice The Question No 22/4-10-2021 by Mr Vassilis Larissa of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance to the Minister of Finance, entitled 'January' - A Year after the Report'. Here, Mr. Mylonakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, today I do not know whether we are all aware of how critical this meeting is. It happens at a time when our homeland is in danger. As a military officer - and there are enough in here - I can assure you that there is an escalation of the thermometer and the intensity of the Turkish challenges and of aggression that Turkey daily goes up in the Aegean Sea and the Eastern Mediterranean. That means our Armed Forces are on guard at all times. And I say it on account of knowledge. That's how the hot episodes are created. So today we must all put our hand in the heart and make a self-criticism. What have we done in recent years so that we do not get to the current point of jeopardising Turkish aggression? Nothing, ladies and gentlemen! And I'm saying it clearly. Now, however, today it is time for all of us to say and give the Greek people to understand whether the term 'patriotism' that we are all using now, is valid or not. Clear words! The Greek Solution since its first step in this Parliament has never said'men', 'no', 'but'. Our proposals are given clear and clear, and our decisions are always clear. I have heard Mr Katrugalo today and compare him with his speech to the Committee on Foreign and Security. It was not at all mentioned whether or not this agreement had to be made strategically or not, whether it is in the interest of our country or not at the outset. Today he didn't say anything. Other words to be loved. We need clean words in here. Why, wasn't SYRIZA a government four and a half years? He blames the New Democracy today - and he welcomes it as a New Democracy because, in previous years, he has also for our defence industry, like PASOK and SYRIZA - but he does not wonder whether he has done anything to remove our defence industry, whether it is public or private, because we have several private companies that export too large and high-level material. The Greek Solution from the beginning had said - and I tell Mr Lazaridis, the rapporteur of the New Democracy - that agreements with Italy using the term for the first time in the Law of the Sea "partial influence" and with Egypt will have a bad effect. We see these today's results. Turkey took advantage of them. He exploits them every day and has become the Profrusti of the Aegean and the Eastern Mediterranean.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u30	We raised Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u31	Let go of those fairy tales. You've been calling it a life, Mr. Lazarides. You've been telling the same stories for a lifetime. The Greek people no longer believe you. Let it go. Another mistake that is made at the Prime Minister's level is this: you cannot buy euro billions' weapons systems at a time when you have exactly the deterrent power you need and say 'This is mine'. Leaving Turkey, say 'I will make mutual retreats'. To make mutual retreats with who? With the one who doesn't make any retreat? Wrong, too! These mistakes, ladies and gentlemen, we are paying today. Today, then, Turkish warships are struggling the Eastern Mediterranean, they have persecuted the French research which is doing searches for EastMed from the Cypriot EEZ, and they have forced it to anchoring out of the port of Larnaca. And what does Greece do? Absolutely nothing! With'so I want' he enters the exclusive economic zone of our country! We've been talking about weapons systems. Since the first moment the Greek Solution has supported the market for the Rafahs, which is a very good market for Greek data. For the Aegean and the Eastern Mediterranean, I think that the Rhafas are the best aircraft and with the weapon systems they have is the next generation. For the next forty years, they'll cover us. With regard to the freshness of Belaras, the President of the Greek Solution himself and from the Step of the Parliament and, in private, the Prime Minister had supported the first one that our Hellenic Navy wanted, that is, the freshness of Belaras. Now, for their value, for their honour, because yesterday we had the Committee on Equipment, I will not say much. I'm just gonna say that. Do not triumph that the French have done us too good. Nothing's been cut. Because I read that 400 million euros, he says, were cut off by the French. Oh, no. One and a half billion euros, which was the original price of each fryer, were with their terrible weapon system, the Scalp Navale. That's not what Bellara will have them. I say this, to explain and not triumph, because the agreement with France, as we will now say, and the French are benefiting. They want to be in control of the subnatial pod of the Eastern Mediterranean. And what are the powers that make up this pouch? It is Greece, Cyprus, Israel and Egypt. So, on her behalf, France wants to be placed here and control this hyponatoid enclosure. We are now going to the same agreement. Strategicly - question to everyone and clear answer - is the agreement correct, is it in the interest of Greece and the Greek people? The Greek Solution at first answers yes. There are gray points that we'll see, we'll see. And because it has been said and heard - and we must all understand it - that only by letters and financial communication can these gray points be corrected, the gray points are corrected as we want, ladies and gentlemen. Article 31 speaks clearly of an amendment or a change of article, which would like one of the two countries to change. So there are no excuses. And the government must listen to what we say to her. The Greek Solution always speaks with reason, seriousness and honesty, let it be a small party. That is why we are proud, because we have a parliamentary group disciplined, a President who says things by their name, warns the Prime Minister. And where appropriate, we put back, as in armaments and in this agreement. But listen to us on a number of issues. In Article 2 there is indeed one ambiguity. He's talking about territory here. Territorial is the geographical area in which a country has sovereignty, that is to say, controls. Yesterday the French, Mr Katrugale, made a statement that we are not talking either of EEZ or of a continental continent. We are talking only about the territory, which is understood in the sea and the territorial waters. Your mistake, Mr President-in-Office, is that we have not extended our territorial waters from steam, fear, because of casus belli - I do not know - to twelve nautical miles. So don't be surprised when the Turk comes at 6.1. The mistake has been made by us. So we have to fix it. The Greek Solution proposal from the first moment is to extend our territorial waters everywhere on the ground to twelve nautical miles. It's over and over and out, it's clear talk. Secondly, your big mistake and I think that we have said it at least ten times, is why do we not demarcate a continental shelf and declare an EEZ? And now, Mr President, if we had declared the EEZ, we had set a continental shelve with the Republic of Cyprus, which we could have told you for so many years here - there would have been no problem with the Turklibi pact which now went and passed on to the United Nations' registries. And can I tell you something else? The French in the geopolitical atlas, Minister, have exactly the areas in the Aegean Sea that Turkey says are gray. Of course they have a demarcated turmoil and the exclusive economic zone between Turkey and Libya. See the French seaside atlas. To see how what we're telling you, you don't do it and then we come here and we're trying to patch up and fix the incorrigibles. So, directly, if we want to have what the entire Greek people are asking for, our dignity and our credibility, the Greek Government must firstly change what Article 2 says about the territory and talk about exclusive economic zones and continental shelf. There is one issue here, and I must be honest with you to ask a question. Minister, if a Greek ship is struck within the territory, the Greek sovereignty, will the French intervene? Will the French help? And when we say armed violence, what do we mean? Isn't it Armed Forced Violence to prosecute the French, the Greek of your maritime zones, from your domination? That's also violent, and that's what we need to see. Another point is in Article 3, which has not been mentioned. All this is done on the basis that the two countries belong to NATO. The agreement here speaks of third countries. What does he mean? Third country from the European Union or it means within the framework of NATO, and so Turkey is not meant as a third country since we are allies in NATO. There are some grey points. Finally, in Article 18, to close, Mr President, the mission of forces, for example, as it stands in the French companies, is a questionable question for our country to send. But I will tell you that for years now, gentlemen of SYRIZA, you have been a government when we had sent forces to Afghanistan, and we have also brought wounded from there. So you cannot say that we have rightly sent to Afghanistan, but now we will not help the French-administrative forces in the Sahel. In Article 18, however, the object of the Greek Solution is that, as it speaks, for example, for the Sahel had to enter for both the Aegean and the Eastern Mediterranean and include our brothers Cypriots, whom, Minister of Foreign Affairs, we have completely abandoned them. We remember them and only say good words.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u32	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u33	To conclude, the Greek Solution is always clear to the Greek people, to the Greek political forces, honest and decent to themselves, and is voting in favour of this agreement with which we have denounced the gray points that the government must immediately correct. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u34	And we continue the speeches of the special speakers with the speaker of Mera25 Mr. Fotini Bakada.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u35	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating the ratification of the agreement between our country and France on establishing a strategic partnership for defence and security cooperation. A defensive agreement that comes as an abrupt from the market agreement on our side of three bellaras-type freshmen with the right to opt for one more. The French defence industry - we all know - is not saying anything new - after Australia cancelling a order of tens of billion euros because of the AUKUS agreement, has taken the 'green light' from Washington to turn to everything willing - as all players in the international political chess board know - Greek governments to increase public debt, in this case to buy arms against protection that is supposed to be the strategic partnership. The agreement is presented as having the strength and the ability to change the balances with regard to defending the interests of our country in the Aegean and Eastern Mediterraneans towards Turkey. In accordance with Article 2 of the Agreement, a mutual defence aid clause shall be introduced in the event that one of the two countries is attacked on its territory. Thus, at theoretical level Greece is shielded against threats to the Eastern Mediterranean. At the same time, the agreement is being presented as a foundation for a strong Europe of the future which can also have military power outside its economic power. I am also saying that Europe's economic power is limited - and this is something that the citizens of Greece have experienced in recent years in their faces - to the almightyness of the few and powerful, who are the ones setting the framework of the Union's modus operaandi. Then let us always keep our reservations when we hear and when we read mainly about aligning economic power with geostrategic. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, if we look at support over time, we will find that support has never been given to our country by its allies or perhaps with few exceptions, and that, of course, when they thought it could be returned and amended in their interest. I will simply set an example: the mediation of the United States before the 1964 Geneva negotiations. In particular, to remind our fellow citizens who now hear us that before the talks in Geneva we had the convening of the five-day conference in London at the beginning of 1964 with the participation of Britain - Turkey - Greece and a representative from both sides of Greek Cypriots and Turkish Cypriots, where we had the first presentation by the U.S. Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, George Bol of the American-British crisis resolution plan in Cyprus, which provided for a broad NATO participation, a project that was recorded in history rejected by the Hostile, who appealed to the United Nations. However, let us turn to today and to the agreement under discussion which, on the one hand, comes to raise by almost EUR 10 billion our already unsustainable national debt and, on the other, is an agreement which is not really dictated by any real need for our country, beyond the deepest need to serve European and American interests. Moreover, the previous efforts of the Greek Government to sign the agreement last year were hampered by the US at the time and the pressure they were exerting on supplying American frigates. Eventually, however, AUCUS changed the climate by finally imposing the agreement between our country and France. In this way it has been possible to restore frozen relations between France and the United States and to compensate France for the financial damage caused to it by the loss of the contract with Australia. Of course the United States, once again in modern history, wanting to become a key player in the geostrategic chess board of Europe - the Mediterranean - the Middle East and as a pillar of shaping the final balances, they were backdated and blessed with the Greek French agreement. Let us now return to the part of mutual defence assistance soon. Unlike the vague, general and strategic cooperation Article 2 on mutual defence assistance in the event of a joint armed attack on the territory of one of the two countries, Article 18 in the section on 'Military Cooperation' is extremely clear. In the first paragraph of this article, it refers to the words: 'Military cooperation between the two countries may take the following forms: firstly, participation in joint deployment of forces or joint development of enterprises in support of common interests, such as the French administrations in Sahel'. But does Greece really have interests in the Sahel? According to the Prime Minister of our country, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis has. If we even look at statements in the signature of the market and then the so-called strategic partnership agreement, we will see that it has been mentioned among other things in the geostrategic interests of our country in West Africa. But let us be honest and clear: it is not our country that has interests. It is France that has interests in West Africa. It is France that, if necessary, should have our help and not the return. I will conclude with a very brief comment, since many of you, ladies and gentlemen of the Partnership, will hurry to criticise the vote on Mera25 of today's agreement, accusing us of standing against the defensive shielding of our country and the acquisition of military leadership compared to neighbouring Turkey. Ladies and gentlemen, if we look at the historical data, because whether history develops roundly or is evolving linearly, it always has something to teach us. So if we see what we can get by studying it, we will see that at any stage of our history and if it started a rally of armaments with Turkey, the final result was negative. As I mentioned the 1964 negotiations in Geneva and the presentation and discussion of the Aceson plans to resolve the Cyprus problem, I will close by reminding you of the bitter story of July '74 when the submarines 'Glaukos' and 'Néreas' were forced to return to the Salamis shipyard as soon as they had sailed out of command. And it's not something Mera25 claims. This point of history has also been recorded with reference to the Cyprus Folder as a whole recently published. Unfortunately, to applaud the armament races on which the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis has been indulging shows that nothing has been learned since 1974 and nothing like this in our modern political history. For Mera25, whatever supermodern weapons may be given to the country, even without the wonderful exchanges that our allies are asking for, France, if there is no genuine national independence from the various economic and other interests, will have no practical usefulness. Any other attempt to involve our country in toys from which nothing has to win either these in West Africa or Saudi Arabia and an entirely communication rally of impression. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u36	We too thank Mrs Bakadima and her exemplary observance of time. Following the completion of the parties' rapporteurs and special speakers' seats, we enter the circle of the speeches of the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups with the first speaker to speak to the Prime Minister and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u37	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, last Tuesday we signed with President McCronn the Agreement on the new strategic partnership between Greece and France. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] It is a treaty that enhances the cooperation of our two countries in the fields of defence, security and foreign policy as a whole. This historic text is being put before the House today, thus making today's historic meeting, because its resolution will mean many and critical: the armouring of our country in the troubled Mediterranean and, at the same time, the first bold step towards Europe's strategic autonomy, the strengthening of NATO's South Wing by the significant strengthening of our Navy, and the founding of an ally of peace with wider radiation. It is this multi-level dimension of the Greek partnership that makes it a pioneer, because its national advantages I believe are to all of us clear. For the first time, there is expressly and categorically provided for a military aid clause in the event of a third attack on one of the two states. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We all know, as the Minister yesterday reminded us, who is threatening who with casus belli in the Eastern Mediterranean. This is a very strong, legal defensive error, with an explicit reference to Article 51 of the United Nations Charter. Our country has been negotiating since 1974, since Constantine Karamanlis, such an agreement. And that is what is happening today, again with a New Democracy government. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] As it is also true that this new partnership with France is framed with the addition to our fleet of three state-of-the-art bellaras. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] They are ships which, as you well know, were a deserving desire for our Navy and with the prospect of obtaining another number of corvenas, Greece will no longer have surface vessels worthy of the possibilities of its captains for the next forty years. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] All of this was not until yesterday, as they are now together with the twenty-four Rafas of our Air Force, the first of which will arrive in Tanagra before the end of the year. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] There are also the latest generation Romeo helicopters - for those who know, the best in the world in the anti-British war - the heavy torpedoes of our submarines and the new equipment of the Port and the Border Guard, as are today our agreements with Egypt and Italy on maritime zones. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] There is an agreement with the United Arab Emirates, with a corresponding clause of mutual defence assistance. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] There are forms of joint action with Israel and with many neighbouring countries and, of course, the forthcoming extension of our defence cooperation for a five-year period with the United States. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I have also said that for this government defence and diplomacy they are two sides of the national shield. Clearly, however, it is also the Euro-Atlantic character of this new partnership, as it is signed by two members of the European Union, which are also NATO members. It also moves in the same sense, in the direction of Aachen's French-German precursor pact. It is worth noting that, until now, such guarantees from Paris had not been received by other capitals, except in Berlin. From now on, Athens will have them. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The cooperation of the countries of the south of our continent is being stepped up and the defence of European interests in the Mediterranean is being given new content, while at the same time our common interoperable defence is being built, as Rafah will soon fly not only to the French and Greek but also to the Croatian degrees and the ships that we acquire are basically the same ships as the French navy. At the same time, however, there will also be a single European attitude in the Mediterranean, the Middle East and the Sub-Saharan Africa. Everywhere, everywhere where Europe has strategic interests. This is a pretext for tomorrow's strong, autonomous and self-powered European Union. Because I, too, share President Macron's view that we Europeans should stop releasing tectonic changes on the global geopolitical chess board. Indeed, it is time to match our economic power with our defence capacity. After all, our continent does not only have history and culture, but also has rich production sources, know-how, scientific minds, worthy work hands, forces which, if all on the same track, will make it an active protagonist. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] "There is no other way for our peoples from their union," underlined one of the fathers of the United Europe, Jean Monet. His words take a different dimension today in the face of the great challenges of our time. Common problems such as demographic, migration, security against terrorism, digital and green transition will not find answers to individual solutions. So the true Europeanists are called upon to become European pragmatics, courageously engraving the path of the strategic autonomy of our Union, which I firmly believe is a one-way path for its future. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as Greece is concerned, I believe that all citizens are aware of the enormous importance of our strategic partnership with France. Because I will say this again that it is the first such trans-European agreement that expressly provides for mutual armed assistance if one of the two parties is threatened, which means that, in the event of an attack, our country will have on its side the most powerful army on our continent, the only European nuclear power and the only European country of the Union that is a permanent member of the United Nations Security Council. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] At the same time, our national fleet has three last-generation frigates in the context of a planned upgrading plan for our Armed Forces. Here, too, I would like to stress something important. Although the armoring of our country is always worth more than it costs, our planning for the Armed Forces of the future does not go beyond our financial capabilities. The price of frigates finally reached much lower than the original offer, as we took advantage of the juncture to negotiate hard. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The repayment of the price is extended over time, but the delivery time is also unprecedented, as Greece was basically agreed to take the lead, taking the place of orders from the French navy on the production line of the French shipyards. Because, you know, ladies and gentlemen of Anti-Population, the pre-war dilemma 'bread or cannon' is no longer valid nowadays. Our country at this juncture and in this neighborhood it is needed, it can also have both. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Besides, there is no defence without a strong economy that finances it, but neither can the economy develop without the security that the Armed Forces and active diplomacy can ensure. So anyone who is today questioning the supply of new vessels is doing his work on the bottom of his own inconsistencies. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Depending on equipment, they are also being promoted for the Mississippi Army, because our country has left us behind at the time of defensive abandonment under the foolish doctrine that we will risk it with the neighbours without protecting ourselves. Our first fry will sail to the Salamis Shipyard in 2025, where some of your companions sailed red carpets and worshipped the waters in Kitch ceremonies for the Salamimans. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] All because we must be judged, but we must not be forgotten. Because that's the only way we finally compare. So Greece is now on a new route. It is neither threatening nor threatening. On the contrary, it expands its alliances, always with a guide to International Law, and with agreements such as today's recipient, a potential provider of security in the Mediterranean and the wider region. In other words, it incorporates its defence in its strategic perception and geopolitical view, always alongside our strong diplomatic and legal arguments. I believe that this is the national concept of a powerful, modern state. That is why anyone who does not understand the defensive and dissuasive nature of the Greek-French agreement can only speak in substance from the position of the attacker. At the same time, however, there can be no exaggeration of advanced West prisons. What's that, I don't understand, a complaint? Because to anyone who claims it, I answer that yes, Greece is the last outpost of the West to the East. Geography tells it, history confirms it and culture seals it. Unless you want to change Greece's position on the map and take us where Denmark is. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, such a policy can be seen to go beyond the time limits of constitutional terms. This success is not only a success of the government. It is primarily a success of the country, a reserve for the place that will run through the next generations. If it is historic, then, the importance of the new strategic partnership between Greece and France must also be historic. The citizens and the Armed Forces have already responded with a proud 'yes'. So every 'no' to be heard in the House today will be a 'no' to their own will. Mr Tsipras, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, I address you because I have informed you of your negative intention, following the debate in committee, and I urge you directly today, each and every one of you, to revise it. Do not repeat the mistake you made in the Agreement with Egypt on demarcation of maritime zones, where you voted'residents'. Don't tell us again that you wanted to, but you did not, like the Treaty with Italy on the extension of our territorial waters. And don't fortify behind the awkward'residence' you voted on in the Mutual Defense Aid Agreement with the United Arab Emirates. As I told you, it's a deal with many similarities to the Greek-French. I will repeat today that the'residence' means 'abs' from the national front, while the interests of our country want us all present today. After all, Mr. Katrugale, in your original announcement SYRIZA described the right choices as defensive partnership with France and strengthening our Navy. What did this 'yes' happen in a few 24 hours, and then, as I understand it, it becomes 'no'? Really, what voices have been heard at your party meetings and at the meetings of your MPs? And who finally decided to appear in the House today as a national exception? I hear you're projecting two reasons. The first is that there should be undertakings that French assistance will cover the maritime exclusive economic zones and the continental shelf of the two states. Answer: You know very well that post-commitments to an international treaty cannot be added. Secondly, you know, I imagine very well or will have been explained by Mr Katrugalos, Mr Tsipras, that the term'state', which the partnership expressly protects, includes not only the ground, but also the sea and the air. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Thirdly, the Treaty moves under international law and the Convention on the Law of the Sea, which fully covers the Greek positions regarding our sovereign rights. I will also add that the agreement includes a general commitment to defence assistance in the event of an attack, regardless of where, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, or on the ground. That is why the reference to Article 51 of the UN Charter is so important. And I imagine you are aware that Mr Katrugalos will have explained to you that the International Court of Justice has accepted that an armed attack is not only the invasion but also any incident of violence against military units of another state, even outside the stricto sensu territory. Isn't that right, Mr. Catrugale? That is why no defensive agreement in the world refers to an EEZ or to a continental shelf! Isn't that right, Mr. Catrugale and Mr. Tsipras? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] All this, Mr Tsipras, you who have been Prime Minister should know about it. So you can't get over it by zeroing advantages that Greece is gaining for the first time. Because never before such a powerful ally was found by our homeland as a guarantor of our territorial integrity on the ground and if necessary on a weapon! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] In fact, under an international legal regime which, as I have explained, favours Greek positions. So it seems that your past is avenged. From yesterday's 'no' to the ties, you went to 'no to the french'. It's really a shame. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] But the second condition, which relates to Article 18 of the Agreement, is lame. So, what are you saying? That we must ask the French to assist us, but we must not help if this is requested by France, that is to say, to vote on a mutual assistance clause without it even being mutual. I'm sorry, is this a serious party responsible, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA? And finally stop moving in this room lies. Because you are talking about allegedly possible battles, involving our soldiers in Africa, when armed - I stress - a involvement is provided for only in Article 2, if the territory of one of the two countries is threatened, and in other places they are indeed talking about cooperation in problems such as immigration, in areas of common interest. So to speak, Mr Tsipras, a little bit about the Sahel region. Do you not know, Mr Tsipras, that in Sahel today they are active in the framework of the 'Takuba' eight European countries? As far as I know, none of them signed a defence cooperation agreement with France. Do you not know, Mr Tsipras, and you were not in the European Councils when the conclusions were referred to the Sahel region by acknowledging the great strategic importance of this region for the European Union? Where were you, Mr. Tsipras, then? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I'll tell you where you were. You were talking from the safe. Because as a follow-up to one of these meetings of the European Council, I have a little overthrown to my Minutes and see what I found. So I found a tweet of yours, along with various African leaders, which he says? 'The security of the Mediterranean is inextricably linked to developments in sub-Saharan Africa. Europe must show solidarity with the African countries that face challenges in the area of security, poverty and terrorism." How much more hypocrisy, Mr. Tsipras? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the Government, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The last sanctuary you are looking for, ladies and gentlemen of the Police Department, is in the name of Mr Venizelos, who proposes to strengthen the agreement with some additional statements. Fortunately the man is free and he did. Because, although SYRIZA is often invoked lately, I remember him in prison for "NOVARTIS".
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u38	Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u39	Even this appeal, unfortunately, collapsed at the expense of the historical importance of today's debate. Well, look, ladies and gentlemen, there is absolutely no point in questioning the historic importance of the new Greek-French Agreement to establish a strategic partnership for defence and security. This is a shield of our protection, protection of our integrity against threats, unfortunately, from countries that, in the context of the North Atlantic Alliance, are our allies. But it is, and as I have explained to you, the preface of the common defence and European strategic autonomy. It is a view of stability and peace in the Mediterranean, a bilateral model of action with multi-level reference. So I do not have much more to say here today in this House. In addition, the debate has been broad, both in Parliament and in the public sphere. I will close by pointing out the serious tradition of our democracy, the parties, at least the parties of power, agree to national security issues. And I will welcome the attitude of the Change Movement, which, despite its reservations - I imagine, will then be presented by its President - supports the agreement in principle. For this very reason, only the home and no party are speaking, and in the name of this tradition I will again call on the MPs, in particular the MPs, to review their attitude to the vote that follows, especially at this juncture, which Turkey is moving on to the unprecedented step to openly question the sovereignty of the islands of the eastern Aegean, because they are allegedly not demilitarised. So the message that the Greek Parliament must send today is a message of unity and national responsibility. That is why each one of us is called upon to face up to his vote as his own, individual signature under an agreement that shields Greece and as his "yes" in the autonomous, self-powered Europe of the future. These signatures will remain forever in the memory of all Greeks and will be, for future historians, a list of patriotic debts, and from this list, no one should miss the name of anyone. No name Greek MP. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So the verdict of history will also be heavy and heavy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u40	The speech of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group and Chief of Officerial Response Mr Alexis Tsipras follows.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr President. If I understood correctly, Mr Mitsotakis in his report basically invoked us - because almost half of his speech was dedicated to the SYRIZA stance, the Officer of Anti-Population - for irresponsibility and micro-participatory purposes on critical national issues. And while I was listening to him, I was wondering: Really, who is talking about micro-party bumpers, the one who made micro-party patriotism trade while he was at the headquarters of the opposition officer, when we solved the name and found a peace and cooperation agreement with our neighbours, to fish in the blur waters of the extreme right? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] The one who, for two years now, and despite his complete conversion to the treacherous agreement, came here and told us that we exchanged them with the pensions, now speaks of national responsibility? The one who now, despite his full turn for the Prespes, refuses to bring to Parliament three memoranda of cooperation, including the one which provides for the surveillance of the country's single area from Greek war aircraft? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] So you are talking about responsibility, which, in fear of Bogdan and other Members of Parliament, lacks operational space from our country's Armed Forces? This trade of patriotic patriotism goes a long way! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I, too, will never mention you, Mr Mitsotakis, nor my political opponents, implying a patriotism deficit. We have differences, different strategies, different perspectives, but I will never imply, as you have done. You said we'd be judged by history. Right. And of the citizens, even more rightly you said so. That is why we must now speak the language of truth and the citizens must judge. Because the story, which you said you would judge us, has already judged and recorded what was the order that bankrupt the country, and what took the country out of bankruptcy! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] What the obsessed governments of the past have been about the deadlocks of an armaments race in the recent past, who have raised the debt and deficits! Who are those who over time invoke the national risk, but for choices that do not strengthen national interests and who, in the end, in practice defend these national interests, if necessary? Because today you have not just presented us with a Greek agreement which, in our view, is bad, which does not, in our view, cover our national interests and involves us in extremely dangerous foreign adventures, but at the same time, also a new doctrine for the country's foreign policy. A doctrine that has been distanced from the logic that for years now lies our foreign and defence strategy, the logic of the pillar of stability, peace and security in the region. A doctrine that moves away from the standing positions of years that we had in foreign policy. How, then, can there be in this obvious displacement of consensus? Consensus to unreasonable armaments costs, taking us back to other times and jeopardising budgetary stability? Consent in wordings that not only cover us, but also expose us to dangers, or do they give us a consensus in a wrong direction on our foreign policy? Consent to the mistake we will not give, Mr. Mitsotakis. That is precisely because our actions and our vote today will be judged by the citizens in the future. But let me start over. From the government of SYRIZA you inherited a negotiation for freshmen with France aimed at a mutually beneficial agreement. A negotiation based on promoting defence cooperation, in the context of our joint declaration in 2015, which President Macron recently mentioned, our joint declaration with President Holland on a strategic partnership and was based on the conviction that France is a central element of Europe's strategic autonomy, which Greece must support to the extent that it serves peace, stability and the protection of international law in the wider region. Our negotiation aimed at strengthening Greece's deterrent capacity on the basis of the logic of adequate defence and always on the basis of concrete suggestions from our military personnel. The aim was to exploit the Greek defence industry to the construction of the wells and not to become exclusively abroad in the French shipyards, and it clearly took into account the country's economic potential. A country that has been bankrupt - your own governments - and has been found for eight years in a great budgetary adventure by the Greek people! Didn't we find out anything about this? Eight years in the memoranda, we also counted the last euro and took the country out of this difficult position with the debt regulation. So when we negotiated, we always had in mind the need for adequate defence, but at the same time the last euro of the Greek taxpayer, and our concern was to strengthen the deterrent capacity of the Armed Forces, but without reintroducing the country into economic adventures. That's why, after all, if you remember back in the press, what were we talking about? We were even discussing the possibility of financing the purchase of frigates from the return of the retained Greek bonds from the central banks of eurozone countries under very difficult budgetary conditions. Mr. Mitsotakis laughs because he thinks that the Greek people's money is the property of his family... [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] ...and go shopping wells and Ruffalo like he's shopping ties in a department store. He's laughing! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] When we find ourselves in the difficult position again because of your choices, you will not be here, of course, you will be somewhere else, but the Greek people will be in this difficult position again, under very difficult budgetary conditions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u42	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u43	We have fought for the reasoned strengthening of our deterrent force - I repeat - within a reasonable framework of adequate defence, with a characteristic example of the programme of modernisation of the F-16, which together with the P-3 programme has been developed with the participation of the Greek defence industry. You, in less than a year since you took over governance, as if you were ruling another country that never went through this financial adventure. Not the country where you went bankrupt and where, with the difficulties and sacrifices of the Greek people, we have restored to clarity, but another country and you have come to inflame the country's defensive budget with more than EUR 10,000,000,000 and, without planning, without any prioritisation, without any suggestions from the Staff and without any guarantee - I repeat - participation of the Greek industry in any of the relevant programmes. In Article 25 of the agreement you are bringing us today, there is only one wish: 'As far as possible', he says, 'the defence industrial cooperation will be sought'. In other words, we are talking about some 7 billion in France, without any guarantee in the defensive agreement that you have entered into to exploit our defence industry, an industry that you have neglected so much that it has lost its exclusive contracts. EAB had a exclusive contract with ‘LOCKHEED’ for the production of three spare parts for F-16 and lost this advantage. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] To avoid talking about the corporation of Defense Systems, which was at 31 million in 2019 and has just fallen to 4 million. You'll see it in the documents I'm filing. No care, then. What exactly are you doing? You are actually leading to a closure of the country's defence industry, and you are deciding huge markets. And here I must admit that you are going beyond the governments that have been bankrupt and who have made large-scale armaments, because they have also given the defence industry some crumb, you are nothing. And the question we ask you and we ask you for an answer is where the account will reach and who will pay him that account. Because it is not just the freshmen, who were indeed - you are right - a delightful desire of the Hellenic Navy. There were suggestions for the freshness, which is why we were negotiating for them. Here we have freshmen, we have cords, we still haven't heard how much they'll cost. We had the first eighteen Raphalls you took without being a priority of the Staff. It's all six more Rafahs you announced September at the ICU without even knowing about the Staff. It is also the intention of us to enter the F-35 programme with the prospect of a new market for expensive aircraft. It is also the modernisation of an additional F-16 to 700m euros, instead of the 450m that we predicted. It's the modernization of the MEOs for 450 million, instead of the 150 that we predicted. [[Noise in the Chamber]] It is also scandalous over-coating in upgrading the Air Education Centre in Kalamata, in cooperation with Israel. Scandinavian over-coating, because it is a project that we were planning and a project for which we were given recommendations for a similar costing to the one you and we had chosen to promote with our own forces in 1/4 of the price. [[Noise in the Chamber]] And I ask you: will you provide proof of the necessity of the two billion euros to upgrade the Airport Centre to Kalamata? We're here, waiting. But we are here and we will check to the end and the last euro of the Greek taxpayer leaving the public fund. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I repeat: all of this is being promoted without a coordinate institutional planning and prioritisation process and with an agony, Mr Mitsotakis, to prevent you from covering as long as you are still at the headquarters of the country's governance the possible agreements for the entire armament horizon of the next decades. Why this rush? With great costs and fast-track procedures. In fact, for an overdebtedness - I repeat - the country and, in the midst of a pandemic. At the time of your own governance, the debt went back over 210% and at the same time fifteen thousand fellow citizens have lost their lives from the coronary, but you are increasing the defence budget between 1920 and 1921 by 41% and reducing the health budget by 12%. I am addressing the average Greek citizen who is watching us. Does it make sense? Of course, and is there a need to strengthen the deterrent power, the country's defence, but 41% increase in the middle of a pandemic? And in this case, so much patriots are you, Mr. Mitsotakis, and we were not? And we weren't wasted, and we didn't spend that much money because we weren't patriots? And since you're so patriots, and we're not, because when the "Orutch Race" orchestrated the whole Aegean to the outside of the port of Kastelloizos... [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] ...infringing our sovereign rights, then you said that the waves took it and that he's not doing any research, why is he making a fuss? And unleash the Security Counsel, your advisor, because he was telling the truth. Or were you holding this stop then why didn't you have the Ruffs and the Fresh Bells? Ladies and gentlemen, since Mr Mitsotakis is constantly talking about the terms 'historic times, historic votes, historic agreements', good words. Nice and small-scale patriotism trade. But better always than the big words is the truth, because national is the truth. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I now come to the agreement you are bringing to the vote. First of all, I would like to ask you: what changed since spring 2020, when you decided that we cannot buy French freshness because it was outside our financial potential, so we cannot have a defensive agreement with France. In the summer of 2020, we had the most aggressive Turkey of the last twenty-five years. But you let summer pass and when we might need a defensive agreement with France more than ever, you ignored it, you refused it. Do you remember that? Do you remember what you said to the political leaders you met in your office in the House at the time when we asked you why you were buying Rafah and not freshmen? You have even chosen to cancel the well market at the last minute. And when the journalists asked the IGC in September 2020 what is going to happen with this defensive agreement, you lowered the issue, saying, "The mutual defence aid clause already exists at European Union level. It is Article 42(7) of the Treaty on European Union, which provides that the Member States have an obligation to assist and assist with all the means at their disposal in a State affected by an armed attack on its territory.’. Those were your words then. Please keep it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] And I wonder what's changed? Then, at that time, both public and private - because he did not tell me any secrets from me and the other political leaders, he said them publicly - you said and spread that you canceled the agreement because the freshmen at 3.3 billion were very expensive. Because the decision had come, you said then, of the Council of State on retrospectives and we have to give the retrospectives. There is today no decision on retrospectives? Suddenly we've been in a surplus of our budget? [[Noise in the Chamber]] On the other hand, of course, you have told us, too, that the political forces, in the name of understanding, believe in this logic that our national issues are crucial, where to imagine that we have something to do with a Prime Minister who is saying and doing other things, and above all he is lying to us. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We then heard you when you told us that in exchange for the frigates you don't buy, which were then very expensive 3.3 billion, but now it's cheap, we get one in three gifts, like the pizzas that deliver the delivery boys... [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We then heard you saying that in return, because we want to have the alliance of France next to us, we will buy Rafah and buy Rafah at 2.3 billion. And again, I stress that there was no suggestion at that time. Then the suggestions from the military staff were made. And then what happened, ladies and gentlemen? Do you remember them? It has been four months since "Oruts Race" violated our sovereign rights in the sea, not in the air, reaching six nautical miles from Kastelorizo and eight and a half miles from Rhodes, without Greece having any support from France in the European Councils beyond the declarations and some symbolic moves, with our country unable to ensure even the minimum European sanctions against Turkey. So today, since Greece has borne all this defensive, diplomatic and economic costs of your relics and of your sluggishness, since the budget has increased by 2.3 billion with the Rafahs and many other costs have been added, you are proposing that we support a defensive agreement that, for an unknown reason until yesterday, you have refused. And I say: let's put all this aside and see the deal itself. But the agreement you are bringing us has two serious problems. The first problem is in Article 2. It is a good thing, and we do not overlook it, that France, on a bilateral basis, supports the Greek territory and we hope that this support will be practicable, especially in the daily air breaches of our airspace, because you quite rightly said that land is the sea - look, six miles, but there we have sovereignty and twelve in the Ionian Sea - and the air, where we have declared our airspace. What, though, does Article 2 for the sea, where we have had the escalation of the challenges and violations of our sovereign rights lately? It expressly provides support for only six nautical miles. Turkey, however, does not question our territorial waters by six nautical miles, neither in Kastelorizo, nor in Rhodes, nor in Crete. The crisis we have recently faced was a crisis involving our sovereign rights on the continent, our demarcated exclusive economic zone with Egypt, and our country's right to extend its territorial waters from six to twelve miles in the Eastern Mediterranean. And I ask you directly: if we had this agreement that you are bringing us today and we had ratified it before the crisis in the summer of 2020 with the 'Orutch Race' along with Turkish warships outside Kastelorizo and Rhodes, would the French navy be obliged to assist us? The answer is: No. If we had this agreement when the same things happened east of Crete and again were harassed by a Turkish warship of a French research vessel in the region between six and twelve miles, when there was no reaction on our part, or when the Turkish war has previously harassed in our demarcated exclusive economic zone with Egypt, when the Government representative came out and said that it is not about us, it is France, on the basis of an agreement, that France would be obliged to assist? The answer is: No. If tomorrow we have breaches of the exclusive economic zone that we recently declared with Egypt and Turkey illegally constantly questioning our agreement with Egypt with the counterfeit Turkli agreement, will France be obliged to assist? The answer is again: No. And the answer to all these questions is negative, not because there is a mistake, or why there is some omission, or why it is in the agreements, or why we do not know what may be signed. The French Ministry of Foreign Affairs asked the question the day before yesterday and gave a detailed written answer to the Euractiv agency for Article 2 of the Agreement and the answer is that Paris focuses only on the territory, that is, the territory and the territorial waters, and does not include the exclusive economic zone. I'm tabling this for the Minutes, though you know it. [[At this point, the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] So my question is whether there's any omission. No, there's no omission. What's there? There is obviously an approach on the part of France, where issues it considers to be open and on which they may have jurisdiction and should have - we say - the international courts do not want them to be incorporated into the agreement. And from your side there is another approach. Why don't you admit it? Your doctrine is what Mr. Gerapetritis said on the days of the crisis with Turkey, that our red line is at six nautical miles. This doctrine is ratified by the agreement you are bringing us. That is why, when we proposed that you extend the twelve nautical miles south and east of Crete, you did not accept it. At least if you had accepted it, today you could say that there is an obligation for France to protect this region. But you and that you refused. An area where - I remind you - a few days ago we had an incident. So what did you do with Article 2? You confirm the doctrine of Gerapetritis as our national doctrine, as a central doctrine of our defence strategy against Turkey's challenges. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I now come to the second negative point of the agreement, which is Article 18. Here clearly the defensive agreement exposes the Greek Armed Forces, not in general and vaguely, to the Sahel region, to sub-Saharan Africa. You have read a passage of a statement from me at a European Council with the African countries just about the Sahel. And of course we all recognise that the Sahel is an area where the risk of destabilisation is too great and where this destabilisation creates refugee waves across Europe and that it must be financially supported, it must also be supported for security. By who, though? From little Greece? From Greece, where is it now in a very critical area on the map? And you tell us that it is not our doctrine anymore 'peaceful and security and stability', but a guardian of the West. And not just a prison post of the West, but I also participated not just in support bodies, but in combat bodies. That's our big difference. This is not the case - let me say it this way - an ideological mist. I want to be very clear. This region is warfare and in this region tens of French soldiers have been killed lately. You do not commit yourself to European training missions, to develop the capabilities of the Sahel countries, such as the European mission in Mali that we have been participating in since 2013 or in other European Union training missions. Nor abstractly do you say that we will support France in its efforts to ensure security and stability in the Sahel. This is where you give a concrete reference to this agreement. In fact - and I would like you to make it clear - we have been asking you for a week now. You have the opportunity to speak openly to the Greek people. It is heard, and you have not objected, that you intend to integrate Greek Special Forces into combat units under French command against jihadists, with all the dangers that this may bring, not only to the soldiers who are there but also to the asymmetric threats. Because we know that we are at a time when fundamentalism and jihadists not only act in the war zones, but throughout the planet. And be careful now, many may not know this, we are at a time when France itself has gradually announced not its departure from the region but also the shrinking of its combat forces. Why? For within six years fifty-three coffins with the French flag, with French soldiers, travelled from Sub-Saharan Africa to Paris. French public opinion begins to think differently, and France itself announces the reduction of half the five thousand French soldiers and seeks to find willing countries. All the G5 in the region, the five critical countries there, react to this reduction and, indeed, take Russian mercenaries to fill the gap. And you, as willing, Mr Mitsotakis, declare that, among other things, the gap in the departure of the French troops will cover it with Greek soldiers. And I ask you: The non-born, how many soldier coffins with the Greek flag will you set a limit for leaving the Greek forces, the Greek soldiers from war zones? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] [[Noise - protests from the New Democracy Wing]] You're asking for the language of the truth. So we'll tell you the language of the truth. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Because the Greek soldiers are historically fighting...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u44	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u45	...and even sacrifice their lives to defend their homeland, defend the old terrain. In the Sahel region, however, what exactly will they defend, for whom will they risk their lives? These are the crucial questions - do not respond like that - that you must answer. So to be clear...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u46	Please! You don't sound anyway. Mr President, you have also exceeded the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u47	What can we do? It's a historic deal. I shall speak as much time as a historic agreement requires, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u48	Can we get another five minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u49	Give me seven minutes, Mr. President. To be clear, therefore, the agreement you are bringing us is not, in our view, an agreement between equal partners. France receives more than 7 billion in Raphael and freshmen from a highly indebted country such as Greece, whose Belharo debt reaches 210% of GDP, without any guarantee of participation of the Greek Defence Industry that collapses. We are obliged to send Greek soldiers to Sahel, where tens of French soldiers have died and in return France does not have to support us outside our territorial waters, where we had a crisis last year, even if there are seven Turkish naval miles east of Crete. So, in our view, this is not a historic agreement, it is an unequal agreement. In addition, however, it is clear that for us the problem is deeper. At a time of radical geopolitical changes, where cold war tensions are worsening, you choose - and you said it clearly in your speech - to move away from the fixed position and stand "Greece - pillar of peace and stability". Involve Greece consciously into the plans of our allies, which surpass it and expose the country to dangers and conflicts far beyond our neighborhood. You do not, in our view, promote an active multi-dimensional foreign policy, but an overactive communication, but a passive one when it comes to claiming our national interests, foreign policy, which is at the same time one-dimensional in relation to priorities in particular of the United States. Your pursuit is not to be a pillar of peace. If it were - and I will give you an example - in the Sahel we would not send fighters, but we would use Greece's mild strength and our historical and diplomatic capital as a European country - bridge in the region, without a colonial past and promote humanitarian and development aid programmes in one of the poorest regions of the world, by exploiting a very small fraction of expenditure on armaments. But, here it is a different concept, it is another doctrine, it is another direction. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] "Greece - a pillar of peace and stability" means not sending another example - missiles and soldiers in Saudi Arabia, where the United States and France are withdrawn to replace them. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] This is a foolish microbialism and exposes our country to danger. How much does the international image and identity of our country change from such choices? They pay Greek taxpayers to have Patriot missiles to protect our islands and you send them to Saudi Arabia along with a hundred Greek soldiers. Protect who there? You want them to enter between the Sunni Shia Controversy? And, of course, outside every framework of an international organisation. Even the United States - I repeat - has more and more distances from Saudi Arabia. And, of course, since I referred to the United States, I heard you speak for five years. The American side is talking about an indefinite agreement, Mr Mitsotakis. Two years, they say, if it's not denounced, indefinitely. This has not been accepted by any post-population Prime Minister and I want you to make that clear. And, of course, these are critical decisions at a time when cold war tensions are intensified instead of consuming. And we hear no commitment from the United States of America to support our sovereignty and our sovereign rights. Will the American soldiers in Souda and Alexandroupolis be disembarked more and more by Turkey will be violating Greek sovereign rights without any provision or obligation for American intervention? All of this changes the fixed position and the fixed strategy of the country and, at the same time, marks, Mr Mitsotakis, and a final decision of your own, it seems - despite your words at times - that you do not, in the end, promote a strategic solution to Greek-Turkish. After President Biden's election and the imposition of US sanctions on him, you and your government were stumbling how pressed Erdogan is. In a very clear way, we stressed that this pressure was not an opportunity to gain only a few months of calm, a quiet summer in the Aegean Sea and that only a substantial dialogue would lead to a medium-term reduction in tension. We stressed that you had to make use of international pressures so that the Turkish President could accept a substantial dialogue in the exploratory, with a view to bringing to The Hague the demarcation of the EEZ and the continent and promoting confidence-building measures, with always clear our red lines for supposedly gray zones and demilitarised islands and without delusion that we can find a solution immediately. We stressed, however, that we were prepared to support such a dialogue, because that can only lead to a prospect of progress. I proposed, then, that the Hague be interconnected with the revision of the Turkish Customs Union - the European Union, in order to make use of the European economic incentive, so that Turkey can hold a constructive dialogue. You refused that, too. In the context of the probable diplomacy you apply and a doctrine of stirring that leads nowhere, you accept a pre-formal dialogue, without even recognising that this is Erdogan's only interest, as it allows him to widen the tension and intensify his efforts for diplomatic and military "grass" in the region. At the same time the investigatives give him a pretext to the international community, that there is supposedly normalization and that he himself shows flexibility. And so you left it to many months in which Turkey could have been pushed to ensure that Greek-Turkish relations are in a more peaceful phase and that tensions are reduced so that on both sides today a new hysteria is not created for a vertical increase in defence spending, a race which can only be harmful to Greek interests and future generations. Because what are we comparing? A Turkey with four times as much GDP as ours, with a debt of 37% and no 210% and with 75% of its equipment being made by its domestic industry and not by markets. How do we compare to a armour race on these terms? For all these reasons - and I close, Mr President - our position today is clear, our position is crystal clear. We do not consent to a wrong strategy for our foreign and defence policy, we do not consent to an unreasonable race of armaments without a plan and priorities that reminds other times, times that have contributed to the country's bankruptcy, we do not agree with two extremely negative forecasts. And our attitude is not a short-sighted or short-sighted attitude. Our attitude is responsibility, it is a profound patriotic attitude, it is a attitude of responsibility to our national interests, but also to the labors and sacrifices of the Greek people. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We don't consent to the mistake, but that's not all. We are, at the same time, determined very soon by a progressive government to correct this wrong strategic direction to our foreign policy... [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] ...and bring the country back to the path of peace, to the road of security, to the path of stability, to the right side of history, to where it belongs over time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u50	The Minister for National Defence has asked for the floor for a brief speech, because he has been heard about issues relating to him. Mr Minister, you have the floor for a brief speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u51	Very soon, Mr President. I have heard in your position, Mr President of the Officerate-General, mentioning scandalous overcompensation of the training centre in Kalamata, and also claiming that we have better alternatives, that we could do this cheaper with our own money.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u52	I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u53	In fact, 1/4 of the total cost. These claims are outdated and I would urge you to refer to those who advised you to say these, because they did not come well read and, therefore, did not consult you well. The only proposal we had in our hands when we took over governance, Mr President, was that of a Canadian company amounting to 1.9 billion. The move came about and the Israeli company started operating competition, we had successive reductions in the proposals and we reached the level we agreed on. Since the programme has been passed by the relevant committee of Parliament after five hours of discussion and detailed explanations for costing, the main negotiation has started, which has led to the final one, the one you claim to be a scandalously overestimated price, which is by far greater than the original one because the indexation clause has been introduced, which is not scandalous intervention from nowhere, but common practice in such long-term contracts. As you know, this contract had a duration of twenty-two years. Besides, this clause was negotiated and would be discussed, if they took the job, and the Canadians. The claim, however, that we also had our own proposal put forward by the Air Force and did not use it, is completely untrue, because at the meeting of the SAGE in January 2019 the then Minister of National Defence - in the minutes you can see this in my memory and I would like to freshen up yours - said, it has been decided that the Canadian proposal should be further explored, such as possibly seeking other solutions. Other solutions have never been proposed. And even though we asked the Committee on Armaments and Defence to do so for five hours when we discussed Kalamata, no one produced the dossier in which we were supposed to be able to do so on our own in 1/4 of the amount. And that was not because there was no file. There was only one theoretical search by Air Force officials, but it was never recorded in a proposal. That is why we have sought solutions to a problem which, as you can see, at the end of the year, with the end of the life expectancy of the educators, would have dramatic consequences for the smooth continuity of our Icars' education and we have found it with the Israeli proposal at the price negotiated and certainly not scandalous overcompensation. I would, therefore, really recommend that those who advise you on these issues come better read so that there is no impression, an early scandal in this Chamber. I would say that the discussion on armaments has taken a large part of this debate, which is done for others and not for armaments. In conclusion, I have only to say this: if you have shown the same zeal about equipment when you were in the government, such as the one you are showing today in this debate, we would not have to run to fill that big gap. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u54	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u55	Series now, after this brief intervention...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u56	Mr President, I would like to speak for ten seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u57	It is now up to Mrs Gennimata, the President of the Parliamentary Group of the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u58	Mr President, this House must be informed. That's not right.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u59	All right, there's gonna be a lot of it all the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u60	It's not like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u61	Mrs. Gennamas, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u62	Thank you very much, Mr President. By following this debate all this time, the conclusion is one: how much damage has been done to us that we have not drawn up a single national strategy. And this with huge personal responsibility, Mr Mitsotakis, who has denied the dialogue over the last few years. That leaves room for us to come here today on such serious issues and for the confrontations to be heard - challenges on the part of the government, populism on the part of Officerial Response. And I would like to add one more thing: Only anyone who has no serious arguments to support his position, his actions and his decisions is resorting either to challenges or to populism. Anyone who is a rider on the horse and feels confident of his great victory or his great "no", has no reason to create these conditions and, indeed, to attempt a new separation of who are patriots and who are not in the place today. We have been through this for many years now, the PASOK has closed it with national reconciliation, and let us finally leave it all permanently in the past. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] However, I would like, ladies and gentlemen, before I come to the important issue that we are discussing, to address three issues which I consider to be very serious and to which we refer. The first is the pandemic, because the pandemic is not over. You have, Mr Mitsotakis, a great responsibility for how you manage developments with your Government. In any case, you admitted your failure when you changed all the staffing skills that handled it to this day. The National Health System is again in red, vaccinations are not progressing and dozens of people are losing their lives every day. You announced facilities for the vaccinated. Very nice. But if they are not accompanied by effective control of measures, then you are taking a huge risk of people's health and life at the place. And I stress it, because so far you have not shown this effectiveness in the control of the measures you have been announcing in recent years, not just months. Promote vaccination, monitor what has happened in other European countries with compulsory vaccination in special groups and do not make any mistakes because they cost human lives. The second big question is the accuracy. It comes heavy winter and the accuracy of the moment we are talking is affecting households and small and medium-sized enterprises. The problem is clearly international. In our country, however, oligopolistic behaviour and the phenomena of greed have worsened the situation. And within all of this, you decide to privatise PPC, which was the only way to normalise prices on the market. After all, you yourself announced these arrangements from the Thessaloniki Exhibition. So let us finally release the production of renewable energy from consumers, from farmers, from energy communities and thus put an end to energy dependence on imported gas. That's where you've led us. These are your choices. The measures you take are too few, not enough. You directly need to reduce VAT on food, but also on excises on fuel. We need to support the weakest with a substantial increase in the minimum wage and, of course, real checks by the RAE and the Competition Committee on price formation. At the same time, you must fight the European Union, because the European Union must as a whole negotiate, set up a special fund to support the first-stage victims. The third most important issue is that of the right-wing threat. A year after the condemnation of the Golden Dawn, the far right rises in our country with incidents even within schools. The extreme right-wing concepts remain very alive within your own party. You have deleted Mr Bogdano, but we have told you that this is not enough. You're a government officer who says he's coming back. So I challenge you, Prime Minister, to place yourself from the Step of the House and to tell us: Are Mr Bogdanou's statements expressing you, expressing your party, yes or no? You can't play on two tableaus. The far-right flirt strengthens them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u63	..................................................................................................................................................................... (Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u64	Mr. Mitsotakis, I'm talking about the deletion of Bogdan. You're not listening to me. Then you'll say again more than I told you. You're talking to your MPs. I said deletion isn't enough. The question I ask you is how right the turn you have made is in the end. I expect you to condemn these views, but also the warnings of your ministers that they will return. Don't do that you didn't hear what I said once again. It won't be the first time. Ladies and gentlemen, we have always supported and supported any action that strengthens power, deterrent capacity and ultimately our country's role in the wider region. We are therefore voting for the Greek-French strategic partnership agreement because, in general, it lays the foundations for enhanced cooperation in the area of defence and security. We support the modernization of the fleet, in line with the demands made by the Armed Forces. We are concerned and agree to have as close relations as possible with France. It is a traditional ally of our country, and this is of particular value now that Turkey is rescaling its challenges towards Greece. However, there are problems in the agreement which need further clarification and explanation that are not hidden and need to be raised here in the House. Of course, there are opportunities that can be exploited in the future if the government is working with a plan and a strategy. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot continue to deliver lessons from a faithful and stable ally, and at the same time begging for protection from intra-American threats, nor can we, of course, drift into a race of armaments with Turkey that undermines the already affected economy and has adverse consequences for the citizens' livelihood. Strengthening the country's deterrent capacity must be accompanied by a new national strategy addressing Turkey's reform policy. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] We will not get tired of repeating this, Mr Mitsotakis. Finally, let's sit around a table and discuss in this place for the interests of Greece. We can, with determination and efficiency, make use of our powers, our alliances, so that we can resolve the issues of demarcation of maritime zones and thereby ensure peace in the wider region. That can mean both the new agreement with France and the country's presence in the European Union and NATO, and that logic must also prevail in negotiating the renewal of agreements with the United States of America. Those who internationally claim that the agreement with France reminds us of similar agreements between 19th-century European countries that were left on paper in critical times should not be justified. Ladies and gentlemen, I said before that there are serious issues to which the government has to give specific explanations. Firstly, the agreement does not cover all possible threats to our country. It refers to the territory, therefore it does not cover the continental shelf and the EEZ. As you know, those that have either been demarcated or demarcated do not constitute territory of the State, but areas that exercise sovereign rights. Given Turkey's challenges in these areas, therefore, the government must do everything it can to complete the agreement, because even the presence of French warships will be a strong deterrent to Turkey. Secondly, a year ago the Prime Minister had invited us to his office to inform us that the ship market costs expensively and we should have taken the Rafahs. Today we take both the Ruffalo and the fresh ones. You told us, Prime Minister, that you have achieved a price reduction. We're waiting for detailed information, because we're always talking about major costs. I would like to remind you here that we have proposed to the Government to negotiate with the European Union the reduction of the targets for the primary surpluses set after 1923, so that part of them can be used to cover our defensive expenditure without new burdens on the citizens. Now, then, is the time to push in that direction. Mr. Mitsotakis, we are waiting for your answer and your commitment to this crucial issue. Thirdly, the mutual assistance clause provides that each side involved must assist each other in military operations. Question: Do we pledge to assist France in military operations in the Sahel, as provided for in Article 18, yes or no? And if so, which of course we are opposed, what part will we have in these operations and how exactly will we be involved? We're waiting for you to let us know. Fourthly, the freshwater agreement must certainly be supplemented by measures to support and regenerate the shipyards in our country. No substantial effort has so far been made by the government to make use of such a large EUR billion maritime programme for the Greek shipyards. Is there such indifference, when participation in the construction of part of the warships would ensure that Greek shipyards and know-how and equipment, but also futures and prospects and jobs, while you know that there are so many jobs at stake from the shipyards? We have fought to keep open all the previous years which have been even more difficult today because of the pandemic of this support and we have this agreement before us, do you indifferent to secure a place for Greek shipyards and their workers? It is unacceptable, really unacceptable. We only voluntarily become a consumer of defence systems, when all other countries claim and take part in their industries, even Turkey. I am really indignant because I myself have fought for the Greek defence industry against the troika that wanted to put down the rolls and today that we can guarantee them this perspective, just don't do it. As a movement of Change we have expressed our opposition to the government's actions that concern both the present and the future of the Greek shipbuilding industry. We have warned the Prime Minister about the tragic consequences of his inertia and the ideas of his Government for their resolution and sustainable operation and we have tabled very specific proposals on what could be done. Because, ladies and gentlemen, we are not simply saying no, we are not making a sterile opposition, we are never opposition to the opposition. We always have a documented counterproposal, always a responsible attitude! Ladies and gentlemen, the bilateral agreement with France must in no way weaken the provisions for the mutual assistance clause in Article 42(7) of the Treaty of Lisbon, which obliges all Member States of the European Union to assist another Member State which is the victim of armed aggression from a third country. This clause must apply to all countries as well. We cannot alibi the current agreement with France for the rest of the countries so that they do not become activated in this case. And I want to make a reference here - because no one recalls it - that this clause is a PASOK project. The PASOK government negotiated it with an Foreign Minister then George Papandreou since 2002 and has achieved, after a hard negotiation, to be incorporated into the Constitution of the European Union. And one more point, regardless of the clause. Greece rightly moves its strategy towards active support for the strategy of autonomy and the creation of the European army promoted by France. Following the experience of the extraordinary departure from Afghanistan, in particular the Americas, Australia and the United Kingdom, the AUKUS Agreement, Europe has no choice but to strengthen its autonomy and military capabilities. In this context, however, Greece should place its own package with specific Greek requests: Firstly, the collective guarantee of the Union's external borders. Today the European Union is protecting and does not guarantee external borders. Secondly, active support for the idea of creating a rapid reaction force, which will also be used to guarantee external borders in case of danger. Thirdly, the adoption of the specific operational arrangements for the activation and implementation of the mutual assistance clause referred to in Article 42(7) of the European Union. It is therefore time for our country to play a more active role in the European Union and to put pressure on the interests of our country. Because, for example, the European Union is not able to enter the essence of the only Greek-Turkish difference in maritime zones, but it can push Turkey to lift the casus belli against our country. It can force Turkey to accede to the Convention on the Law of the Sea, which is part of the European acquis, and it will be a serious step in supporting any discussions that are taking place from now on with Turkey. Otherwise, what basis are we talking about? I really don't understand. The question, Mr Mitsotakis, is whether your government has constantly raised these issues on the table, because so far we have not seen it. The 'yes' of ours, our responsibility for the agreement with France, is also linked to the requirement that the government take the initiatives it must take to make use of the agreement so that Turkish aggression is halted, that maritime areas are demarcated and that peace and security in the Eastern Mediterranean are strengthened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u65	We also thank the President of the Parliamentary Group of the Change Movement. The President of the Parliamentary Group of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Dimitrios Koutsoubas, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u66	A year ago, on October 7, 2020, the condemnation of Nazi, criminal Golden Dawn met the demand of the people and youth, as expressed by the grand gathering outside the court. So then we said no reassurance is allowed. One year later, events in Thessaloniki but also in the neighborhoods of Athens with the attacks of the fascist groups not only confirm us, but also demonstrate that fascism is a useful weapon, a multi-tool of the system, which does not hesitate to exploit at the expense of the movement, at the expense of the fighters, at the expense of the Communists, who in these difficult conditions are in front of all the struggles. Your responsibility is enormous for both the tolerance shown by your Government and the mechanisms of the state against these groups, as was seen in Thessaloniki. And you in SYRIZA do not know that the European Union, which you are deposing, has as its official ideology anti-communism, the equation of communism with fascism, which is now coming to equate criminal Nazi violence with the struggles of peoples and youth? And since we are debating today your famous agreement with France, is it entirely irrelevant whether Nazi, fascist action and such agreements which serve the plans of the United States, NATO, the European Union in our region? Of course not. Because Nazism, as has been proved historically, serves imperialist designs and is also fed by them. Mostly it reappears, recovers and is used in periods of deep economic crisis and prepares imperialist wars. That is why the fight against Nazism, fascism, goes hand in hand with the fight to cancel these dangerous plans for the people. And to remember the story a little bit, the older ones learn, to refer to another irony of history. Such days a hundred years ago, in October 1921, the famous Franco-Turkish agreement of that time was signed in exchange for Turkish plutonium production sources. French imperialism would place at the service of Turkey's rising urban order and Kemal Ataturk a valuable armament from the territories of Kiliki, the Adanas, the surrounding areas, which until then existed for the collapse of the Greek army in Asia Minor, a few months after the French imperialism had encouraged Greece, the Greek bourgeoisie class of the time, to launch the experientially destructive Asia Minor campaign. Ask a question and a question of any Asia Minor - because we have many grandparents, grandparents, well-known - refugee of that time and his offspring what the French and French ships have done, when the Turkish army tossed the refugees, the Greek Miracians at sea, as they have always done and do the imperialist states, whatever name they have. They sell their allies, when their changing interests are served differently, depending on the stage in which competition and interests pass. We regret, Mr Mitsotakis, ladies and gentlemen of the other parties, that we will break the climate of so-called national celebrations that you are trying to set up today. However, things are very serious and the Greek people need to know the truth about what is behind this famous historical Greek-French agreement. And the first thing the Greek people need to know - what the government and other parties are trying to squash, even those who are putting an asterisk to the agreement on the eyes of the world, such as SYRIZA - is that this agreement is not really about the defence of the country, the protection of territorial integrity, the defence of sovereign rights, that is, it does not serve the people's interests. This agreement, like other similar agreements in the past, as was the agreement on bases with the USA - 'an defence' - was also called the one opened by the SYRIZA and the New Democracy - it relates to Greece's participation in aggressive, dangerous US projects, NATO, the European Union in the wider region of the Eastern Mediterranean, the Middle East, North Africa, the Sahel region in sub-Saharan Africa. And no matter how much you want to hide this from the Greek people, the texts of the agreements themselves disguise you. It is characteristic of Article 18 of the Agreement describing how the notorious bilateral military cooperation will be implemented. It is essentially about placing the country's infrastructure as a base for the French Armed Forces. And not only this, it refers to joint activities, training, military exercises and others in the context of the growing sea presence of France in the Mediterranean or joint participation in bilateral or multilateral exercises in the Eastern Mediterranean and the Aegean Sea. What else does he say? Participation in joint deployments in support of common interests, such as the French-administrative enterprises in the Sahel, participation in multinational defence structures, such as the European Intervention Initiative, and any other activities jointly agreed by the Parties. Can you tell us, gentlemen of the government or of the other parties, all of you who consider this agreement strategically correct, what and where these multinational military missions will be? Did it happen in Libya? Is it in the Strait of Ormuz? Maybe in Mali? And what does the Greek Armed Forces have to do in these areas? What does these regions have to do with protecting Greek sovereign rights? What kind of interests does the Greek people have in these areas? You're fooling around and challenging! This agreement serves not only the needs of the Greek people but also the objectives of the great capital that it wants to be actively involved in the predicament of the region, the economic and energy competitions which are now escalating globally and which are always accompanied everywhere and with military controversies, which, of course, are paid for by the people. This is also the role of the agreement with France, but also of the agreement with the United States, which is to be renewed. France is neither a pigeon of peace nor an angel guard, as you want to see. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANAOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Let me refer here to an excerpt from a discussion by Mikis Theodorakis with the Rector of the European University of Cyprus Kostas Williamos, published in a book, in the "Delection of Harmony", which, although it refers to earlier events, is extremely timely. It says, therefore, Mickey: "About the production of "Black Death" by the war industries in Europe and the United States, I would like to explain the following incident a few years ago, President Miteran revealed to me in Brahati Corinth that the level of French society is entirely dependent on the influx of funds created by the sale of war materials". "The most rewarding things" - stressed to me - "is the export of major weapons, such as warplanes, thunderstorms, cannons, tanks. Later, when my son was transferred to a military hospital in Paris with heavy burns at the late - day Cure Military Treatment Unit, I personally found that most of the patients were Iranian soldiers, injured by the war between Iran and Iraq. And, of course, I was amazed, when I found that these injured were victims of chemical weapons supplying Iraq with France and had been sent to the military hospital not as ordinary people, but as experimental animals to examine the French scientists and to find out what was their mistake in the recipe for chemical weapons and escaped the death of these heavyly wounded Iranians, because Saddam Hussein paid too much to buy this torture death from France, a country - beacon of civilization and a guardian of world peace." "And the one who disgusted me most was the role of scientists in this monstrous machinery of torture of death. All citizens should be aware of the fact that from bullets to bait the goal is to exterminate whole peoples, as has recently been done with Yugoslavia, Afghanistan, Iraq, Palestine, Libya, Sudan, Black Africa and Syria, only to keep up their standard of living and their place in the club of the great predators of the era of imperialism, who literally live from the blood of innocent peoples of a lower god," concludes Mickey Theodorakis. I'm closing the parentheses. Ladies and gentlemen, France is a powerful imperialist force fulfilling a special role in the Euro-Atlantic Alliance. He has nuclear weapons, eleven military bases abroad, he has engaged in wars in Afghanistan, Iraq, Syria, Côte d'Ivoire, Chad, Somalia, Mali, Central African Republic, first in the break-up of Libya. Operations military in Mauritania, Mali, Burkina Faso, Niger, Chad. It calls for an upgrade of its position and seeks to extend its action throughout the countryside, to extend its alliances for its own interests, of course. It seeks a better position in the campaign of NATO and the European Union with Russia and China, which has a strong influence on our region. France also wants to take advantage of the new geopolitical landscape that is shaped after the withdrawal of the US forces from Afghanistan, the reorientation of their powers on the Indian-Pacific side and the establishment of the AUKUS Alliance between the USA, Australia and Britain to competition with China. In fact, you themselves are saying to all tons that the agreement with France has been accelerated since the signing of AUKUS between the USA, Britain and Australia. You confirm, in other words, that the agreement is a link between the Euro-Atlantic designs and the redeployment of NATO forces and the US throughout the region with the barrel to China and Russia, that it goes hand in hand with the very dangerous designs of the United States and NATO, with the new doctrine of 'NATO 2030', which attempts to make this murderous global ranger. Fairy tales for the supposed absence of the European Union from the international scene are not convinced, not only because the European Union is currently conducting some twenty imperialist interventions, but also because either alone or in close coordination with the United States and NATO is going further than militarisation, with the aim of penetrating it to third countries on behalf of European monopolies. The above elements are reflected in the agreement you signed, ladies and gentlemen of the government and have the following characteristics: Recognises NATO, this murder mechanism against the peoples, as the foundation of European security, and highlights the role of the European Union's common security and defence policy behind seventeen undertakings abroad, namely the agreement supports and is based on two main pillars of imperialist intervention. It opens the way to French military bases and infrastructure in Greece next to the Americans. It raises the question of the creation of a Euro-Mediter within the framework of the European Union's strategic autonomy in cooperation with NATO, in order for the European Union to fulfil a more advanced role in its aggressive policy. It adopts all imperialist pretexts to combat terrorism, proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, energy challenges, immigration, maritime security, hybrid threats and others. Ladies and gentlemen, you tell the Greek people that this is a historic agreement, because there is a defence aid clause for the first time. I will not dwell so much on the criticism of whether this clause only relates to territory or to sovereign rights and maritime zones. In particular, I would like to stress that for the first time a defence aid clause has been established in the event of an attack, which must of course be seen together. Look out! It should be taken together. And the question arises: is there or is there no such clause in the founding Treaty of NATO? Of course there is, and it's Article 5. Has it ever been activated to protect Greek sovereign rights and to prevent daily violations of Greek airspace and marine space? Of course the question is rhetorical. It never happened. It is definitely a negative answer. It was, however, triggered when NATO murdered other peoples, such as Afghanistan, and then our country came by giving land and water to the killers. He will say yes, but in Greece's case the threat comes from another NATO member country. However, such a clause of solidarity and mutual assistance also exists in the so-called 'euro constitution'. And, as you know, Turkey is not a country of the European Union. Has this ever been activated in all the above cases of threats and violations? Did anything happen at this time when the presence of Turkish ships east of Crete is being investigated in the 'EastMed' pipeline from Kastelorizo to the Cypriot EEZ? Did the European partners ever show you real solidarity in Cyprus, which is a member of the European Union against the Turkish threats and the continuing Turkish invasion and occupation? Of course these questions are again rhetorical. Of course not, that's the answer. Why? Because it is quite simply what he considers the attitude of both NATO and the European Union towards Turkey to be their own interests, it is their strategic relationship with Turkey, it is the pursuit of stability in the south-eastern wing of NATO by seconding Turkey from Russia's influence. They are the business between the urban classes of these countries. And all this concerns France directly, because at the same time that you put forward European strategic autonomy as a step that will benefit Greece's sovereign rights, at the same time countries - members of the European Union are developing diverse economic, trade and military trade with Turkey. At the same time as you celebrate for Greece - France - Alliance, the French Minister for Foreign Trade visited Istanbul, accompanied by French entrepreneurs and co-chaired with the Turkish Minister for Trade at the 6th Session of the French Economic and Trade Committee - Turkey. All business! Therefore, the myth has been constantly devastated, and many times in the past, that strong imperialist states and their alliances can secure peace and security in the region, support the sovereignty and sovereignty of Greece or Cyprus. The interests of business groups are the ones that define the relationship between you and the correlation and not the various declarations that are easily made to wind. So you cannot cultivate false expectations for salvages of French interventions in the Aegean or the Eastern Mediterranean. Any such allied intervention, whatever its name may appear, either as a 'assistance' or a'support', shall have the stamp of their own geopolitical pursuits. They put oil on the fire and eventually only complicate problems. Let the Greek people be sure that such as Article 5 of NATO finally took advantage of the murder plans against other peoples with Greece's participation in them, so Article 2 of this agreement will be used to send Greek military forces to other dangerous missions to assist the French troops in the field. And finally, the military cooperation and assistance agreements signed by the current Government of New Democracy, like the previous SYRIZA, with the United States, with Israel, with the United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia will form a framework of greater involvement in wider fields of geopolitical conflict, also fuelling competition with Turkey. This also applies to the agreement with France. What you do is give it to France's bourgeois class to participate in better positions in the Euro-Atlantic bazaar with Turkey, which includes defining spheres of influence, but also percentages in the various partnerships. It is the other side of the dangerous coexistence arrangements that are taking place in the Aegean Sea and throughout the Eastern Mediterranean. And it is revealing that the agreement on how energy wealth projects are the ones that give tone and the arrangements, as it provides for both parties to strengthen in particular their exchanges of analyses on energy issues in the Mediterranean, as these are an important parameter for the stability of the whole region. The parentheses are closed. Ladies and gentlemen, the same applies to the issue of armaments which are fully integrated into the aggressive plans. Is that arbitrary? Is it again the sterile refusal of the JRC, as you say by snatching the same candy for many years now, or is it the result of specific events? So we say: are there or are there not Greek freshmen presently participating in missions outside the borders from the Black Sea to North Africa? There are. Is there or is there a Greek F-16 commitment to patrol the airspace of northern Macedonia, Montenegro, Albania? There is. Did you or did you not send Greek war material and specific pyres into Saudi Arabia for the aggressive plans against Iran? You sent! When the SYRIZA Government signed the F-16 upgrade, was there or was there not a document from the American pentagon that said that this upgrade would help the Eastern Mediterranean and Middle East naval missions and contribute to the foreign policy objectives of the United States of America? There was. So answer us, and above all answer the Greek people what it is all about with the real interests of the people and the defence of the country. Unless Greece's borders are somewhere in Persian and we're not getting it yet! And this question must be answered by both the Government and the other opposition parties, especially SYRIZA, who, with his government's words and his overall opposition, has literally become the best "washer" and the fervent enthusiast of this strategy. First of all, SYRIZA described the agreement as strategically correct, taking part in the shameless mockery of the Greek people that it allegedly concerns the defence of the country. He also put an asterisk on the Sahel. Are you serious? The dangers for the Armed Forces and the Greek people are related only to the Sahel? This isn't about the other out-of-border missions? Isn't this about military high schooling with Israel upgraded by SYRIZA? Is it not about the American military bases that you planted throughout Greece, from Alexandroupolis, Larissa, Stefanovicio and elsewhere, as your former co-pilot Panos Kammenos has recently reminded us with great pride? Is this all about peace? Is this about the country's defence or Russia's surrounding plans? And now, the New Democracy Government is preparing the new five-year agreement, as the Prime Minister said today, with new bases in Kavala, Xanthi, Skyros - and I do not know what other regions - turning the country into an imperialist facility but also to a retaliation target, putting the people in great adventures. All of you together have made Greece a champion at military naval spending, over and above the United States of America as a percentage of GDP. Four billion euros a year is already being paid by the Greek people, and at the same time you say that there is no financial opportunity to shield the public health system, for welfare, for education, for firefighting, for firefighting, for earthquakes. Now the people will pay again for the Bellara frenches, which, as they say, also special soldiers, provide protection for a region and not a sign defense. New frigates have the possibility of controlling a large area around each other and prohibiting flights within the range of their weapons. Therefore, new wells with their weapons and radars, you don't need them for the Aegean nor can they operate in the Aegean. Keep them operationally exclusively outside borders, where they will probably not have the required coverage. You intend to provide them with early warning and air defence to other maritime units that will have roles and missions in the Euro-Nathian war plans. We call on the people to ignore these government celebrations and the reassurance they cultivate and condemn Greece's involvement in dangerous projects, in a geopolitical environment of extreme competition. The real interest of the Greek people and other peoples in the region is to strengthen the fight for release from NATO and the European Union, in order to cancel anti-grass agreements, dismantle the bases and people to go through the counterattack with their struggle, with their claims and finally get the country's steering wheel in their own hands. With all the other peoples in the region, we have nothing to share. On the contrary, we have a lot to share with only the exploiters and their alliances that drag people into war slaughterhouses. I conclude with an historic event that matters. In 1924, there was a corresponding military aid agreement. It was the French Mutual Strategic Assistance Treaty that became a rag just a few years later. Not only did the French Republic send troops to defend the northwest border of the Czech Republic threatened by the Nazis but it signed with Britain, Nazi Germany and Fascist Italy, the Munich Agreement, which opened the way for the handover of part of the Czech territories to Nazi Germany. This is the base of their capitalists and imperialist alliances. You know, obviously, whatever political algae you are trying to forge us for silk ribbons, that French weapons are a very old case in our country, as well as in Turkey. From France we had provided a few years ago the lost Greek-Turkish war in 1897, the battleships "YDRA", "SPATS", "SPARA". Again from France, after the Asia Minor disaster, is it not that we had purchased "PAPANIKI", "KATSONI" and four other submarines, before that same country, France, supplied Turkey with other weapons? Do you prefer to talk about the market in 1985 that decided another party, of course, PASOK - not yours, Mr Mitsotakis - at the same time buying American and French brothers, the well-known Miraz, the ancestor of the Rafahs? Kalpidic claims similar to those of today's people listened to you and then the Greek people - open a little bit - that we had so far extended our alliances or, to say it in your truest language, our protectors who only protect themselves are their own geopolitical, economic, political interests, selling to the abundance - erase the people according to what they impose each time their opportunistic constantly changing interests. Are we not in the same and worse position today because the interests of large capitalist states are paying for the endless and undeadly armaments race and in our region often by sharing with each other who sells and what sells? You confess, after all, to it without shame and you yourself, too, reluctantly. You have made it clear to us in the past few days, ladies and gentlemen of the government, that the Americans have blessed your agreement with the French and as we all know, only the Americans approve equipment that meets their own American anti-American priorities, their own designs, with the well-known features in the context of sharing competences with other allied countries - country guards. So, to whom do you sell in this Chamber the feeling that Greece is now supposed to have a European protectionist of its defence and integrity, and is now supposed to be promoting an independent European policy, while you are confessing that what you are doing is to strengthen NATO's – supposedly – defence and in fact an aggressive Mediterranean force? The more the French and American weapons of the past prevented the stirring up of the aggressive sights of the Turkish ruling class, the more they will be prevented from the new ones you buy. And these will be paid by our people with a deterioration in their living conditions for the master of food, as the verse of Kostas Varnalis so rightly says, by completing the classic nature of wars, their causes, the greedy capitalist interests, military, industrial and economic complexes. The strengthening of the aggressive views of Turkey, that of your allies in NATO, has been and has so far been the only tangible result, along with the greatest poverty of the Greek people. For all these reasons, which we have explained in detail, the JRC rejects and rejects this agreement. And this position of the JRC is fully aligned, we believe, with the needs of the Greek people, including its needs for the armoring of borders, friendship, cooperation with other peoples of the region and the world. We are with the alliances of the struggling peoples. We believe that this is the most profound, genuine, patriotic and at the same time internationalist attitude. And here is the hope for the Greek people, for all the peoples of Europe, the region and the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Mr President. And now the President of the Greek Parliamentary Group, Mr Velopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u68	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to remind him, as the Secretary of the JRC went back to history, that as today 7-10-1751 we had the Naval battle in Nafpaton, where the Christian forces devastated the Islamic forces of the Ottomans. I do not know if the government chose to bring this agreement on purpose today or at all, but, Prime Minister, Minister, Minister, during your speech, I found some ambiguities and I would like to make that clear. It's not a treaty you're doing, it's a deal. The Treaty creates International Law. The agreement is bilateral. So it can't be a treaty. I note this because it is written in the Minutes and I want us to be careful. You also referred to NATO, that is, you put the umbrella of NATO. You know very well that this bilateral agreement is under the umbrella of NATO, and so it does not cover us in a possible conflict with Turkey because there is a NATO umbrella. We came here to tell the truth, not to say half the truth, because Mr Tsipras wants it or the New Democracy and the Prime Minister wants it. We'll say what's really going on. You say that if a third party attacks one of the two states there's a subscription. That's what you said yourself here, Prime Minister. If Turkey is attacking Greece, is it a third country or is it a NATO member country? Questions needing answers. You said, Prime Minister, with a veil, that you did the greatness of EEZ with Italy and Egypt, forgeting, of course, that the reduced influence leads Turkey to Kastelorizo and the constant question of our own EEZ. You said, Prime Minister, something that went through the change, no one mentioned it either, Mr Tsipras, that you made a five-year deal with the United States. For the first time in time, Prime Minister Mitsotakis, Greece is making the deal five years. You commit the next government, whatever government. Maybe it's not you. You want to be, I imagine, as the newly-democratic Members would like, but the Greek people might not want it. So how do you commit the country to a five-year deal when your life time is two more years during the Constitution and if you win the elections, although I'm very afraid it won't be exactly the results, will you all go together? This agreement cannot be carried by the next government. I want you to tell us here, Prime Minister, the agreement is bilateral, is it European, is it natoman? What kind of deal is it exactly? For the Greek people to understand. I do not want and we do not want the Greek people to believe, Prime Minister, that we have covered our backs. Don't do that. Instead of cultivating the mind and vigilance of the Greeks, you come today and say to him: "Don't worry. The others will run to save us." That's not the case, Prime Minister. You said that the eastern end of Europe is Greece. This is where you're mistaken in geography. The eastern end of Europe is our sister Cyprus, Prime Minister. It's not Greece, Prime Minister. That's reality. When we talk about territory, we talk about islands and FOZ. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Prime Minister, the word ground is key. I would like to thank you very much, indeed, for thanking Mrs Gennamas for voting on this particular agreement. That means you're flirting with Mrs. Gennamas and that proves they're coming for better days for you than, of course, the underground routes you've been conducting, both you and KINAL and SYRIZA. Thank you. We won't definitely get it. You should know that. No thanks or anything. We will do our national duty and the national duty is served by the Greek Solution. We shall vote on the agreement, but we have our reservations, which we will be tabling one by one, and I sincerely want you to be kind enough to answer them. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] But I'd like to do some lessons to some of the people in here, make them a little wiser. Why are we talking today? To buy ships. Why do we need the ships? For our national defense. Why do we need our national defense? Because Turkey is threatening our country. Why does Turkey claim, Prime Minister? For the energy, natural gas and oil that is full of our country. And I say it like that to understand it. Why does Turkey need natural gas? For the energy. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] What have you not done New Democracy and SYRIZA, Prime Minister, for energy? I'm telling you now: EOZ and twelve nautical miles. This is not what you have done in any government by the UNCLOS agreement and all that has happened in the past and has been in place for decades. You and your Minister, on your right, Mr. Dendias, the honourable Minister for Foreign Affairs, I would say from far away, you, Prime Minister, from the UN, and the other from Saudi Arabia have canceled the gas. I really do wonder which adviser informed you to do this in public. You did, of course, at a time when the price of oil and gas was low. But once you and your Minister have said so, the prices have risen, Prime Minister. The Minister told Saudi Arabia. Let me remind Mr. Nines smiling that there is a video from Saudi Arabia where he said that Greece would not extract natural gas, that it was something from the past. And the Prime Minister and the UN also confirmed that. Prime Minister, I personally when we met a number of months ago I told you one thing, that what you are doing right we will support it and what you are doing wrong we will dismantle it with arguments, not screaming. We're right. We are proud of the Greek Solution that you took the Raphalls and the fresh ones because they were our suggestions. We're happy about that. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] And I say that because, Prime Minister, you made some mistakes. You are mistaken. We will make these mistakes clear to you if you can correct them. Wrong first, you closed the lignites. We have a terrible increase in the price of energy. Secondly, you told the UN not in natural gas and oil. Thirdly, you take ships to defend the country without EEZ and without twelve nautical miles. It's empty what we need to make up for. Do you want a month? Do you want two months? Do you want in three months? They must be replaced. The man, the political leader, the Prime Minister clearly and will make mistakes, but he cannot continue to make the same mistake and insist on the mistake. Change Rotate and we are next to every national good, any government. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Gentlemen of the Left, whatever the Left, the Fake Left or the Left in essence, the whole world is being shaken. We have huge, tectonic geopolitical and geostrategic changes. Greece is directly threatened by Turkey. Today, the Foreign Minister knows - the militarisation of our islands has been threatened. They're asking for the demilitarization of our islands. People are unfortunately in the '40s. They play war in the school courtyards among them new Greeks. As we say - and I will say it again - 'the times are not clean'. It's been a long day from now on. With this agreement it will - it is certain - Turkey - and with its internal problems - create a problem in the country. We have to be united. National homogeneity, national unity, not a division in society! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Says SYRIZA - and I hear it if you like, Prime Minister - why send an army to Saleh. First, we're not sending an army. We're sending professional soldiers. We're not sending couriers. Secondly, as long as SYRIZA was a government, Mr. Tsipras, were we not sending an army along with NATO forces? Didn't we send our own soldiers to Afghanistan? I will say this with specific references: Bosnia, Georgia, Kosovo, Sudan, Afghanistan, Chad, Albania, Mali, Somalia, Iraq and Morocco. If, therefore, there were consistency between words and works by SYRIZA, I would welcome and listen to Mr Tsipras' argument. But I cannot hear it for a very simple reason: why, to ask for the change from this government which does not make it self-evident, the SYRIZA government had to do two simple things: EEZ and twelve nautical miles. Since he didn't do it, he can't ask for the change now from this government. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] We also need to be important and not trivial. If she goes to seven nautical miles, I hear that, ladies and gentlemen. No one's going to be bothered. France made it clear today. This is not about the EEZ. Do you know what the problem is, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, Prime Minister? It's not important whether France is going to intervene. Importantly, Greece itself will intervene in its seven nautical miles. We are ready to intervene, or we will again let the ship take the wind, as a minister said, if I'm not mistaken, which was the wrong statement. If we seriously want to have national unity, we need to see our mistakes. I am disturbed, ladies and gentlemen, to hear Mr Tsipras falling into the trap, and the Prime Minister seems to be dealing only with their personal controversy. There are controversies at personal level. That's annoying, it's disgusting for the citizen. The controversy should take place at both the level and the field of politics rather than personal controversy. That means healthy policy. So let us stop personal attacks. And, of course, I am beginning to understand that personal attacks not on policies but on their personal peaks are, unfortunately, often mentioned in things that do not concern all of us, for one single reason. They're doing it why? Because SYRIZA's policy with the New Democracy's policy is identical. They can't hit their policies. It's the same. They have derogations and it makes sense. Today, Mr. Tsipras addressed his generation, I imagine that he was in high school, at the university, and he marched peacefully and said out the guns, outside the bases, outside NATO, out all this. That's what's been going on in the past decades. He is now Chief of Officer Response and must, if he wants to rule the country, the mistakes of the past, the failures of the past to leave them in his past. Today Greece is in danger and today the country's political staff must stand up against what is coming. It's over and over! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] And finally, the parties must cease to be indifferent to the future of our young people, our young children. Because the political system will not be judged in the next elections. We are all a political system and the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister. It will be judged by the next generations if this House has stood up to the circumstances. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Do you know the philosophy of the Greek Solution, gentlemen of the New Democracy? Because I don't care about the little ones. When can this really be a state you know? When we fight for 2040 and not for 1940, that state will become a state, then that state will gain quality! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Unfortunately, the Prime Minister is probably busy. Regrettably, gentlemen of the New Democracy. And I'll say it now. We reached the point of the Prime Minister who said that he would never welcome the "Macedona" Prime Minister to accept with honor the false-machine President of Skopje, Mr. Pentarovski. And you know, I didn't get too disturbed by this cubism. And he's not the Prime Minister here. What bothered me most? So the false-made president, now called "Macedona", is unfortunately the one who spoke of Macedonian minorities in northern Greece and welcomed him with branches and vaudes. He talked about a Macedonian minority. Because, then, the New Democracy does not know, to tell them that outside to the Unknown Soldier there is the battle of Kilkis and Lebanese. This battle took place to kick out Pentarovski's ancestors from Macedonia! Do not forget these, gentlemen of the New Democracy. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Of course, not even a single channel showed the visit. You hid him, he sneaked out. Because you feared the memory of the Greek people in your inconsistency with Macedonian. You are supposedly fighting - and I refer to SYRIZA - for the treasonal pacts, protocols that New Democracy does not bring. And it's true he doesn't bring them because he's scared. And I am sure many New Democracy Members will vote against it. Mr President of the House, if I may make a point to you on turbulence, we have lost the ball, we have lost 3-0. I'm sorry, but that's the way it is. In fact, we are going to apply the Rules of Procedure. So I say, you're talking - and you're a lot of Macedonians here, MPs - about the betrayal memos with Skopje. I ask, gentlemen of the New Democracy: will you make a nominal sure? Yes or no? I ask, gentlemen of SYRIZA: will you leave or will you stay here to support like Potami has done in the past the betrayal protocols? Let Mr. Tsipras tell us. Mr. Tsipras is obliged to tell us. Will he leave to let the New Democracy alone vote, so that it can finally show where the problem is, or will it stay here and say that because we have brought the agreement, we are voting on it? You know, politics is a very serious case to deal with political and cultural movements. We, you, all of you, see left and right. We see fanatical neo-Greek ideals trapped fake leftists hitting the other fake right, far right or fascists. All hope is lost like this. We're here to unite. We came to say, self-evidently, that the Greeks must unite in the face of problems beyond strife, ideologies, ideologies to unite together. The Greek Solution will never impose separations on the Greeks. Unfortunately, the New Democracy divides them. It divides Greek society. He's looking for vaccinated, uninfected, bad, good. It divides them, hates each other, when Turkey questions Greekness not the Aegean, not Cyprus, it questions the country's very existence. You're making mistakes. Greece wants union. Members of different parties and journalists come out and swear the inhabitants - where? - Stavroupolis, Cordelio, Eusmos. These areas are democratic. 57% of these areas were given PASOK! The JRC had high rates at the time. They were called all fascists in general. Aren't they ashamed? I grew up in Cordelio, and I am proud of his democracy and his nationality. And there to stop this hurricane against Macedonia and Thessaloniki. Prime Minister, we are clear and we are addressing the Greeks all. We do not even care 'right' or 'left'. We're interested in Greece. Where's the future? Here in Greece, in our country. Whose life is this? It's ours, it's ours. What are we gonna do with it? We will live it in every way and every means for a better Greece. We'll give the solution to the Greek solution. That is our view and it does not change. Minister, Mr Dendia, no matter what you say in the Greek Parliament, there is no other party with such stable views. We have not derogated a single destiny from what we have said since the beginning. We are proud that all our proposals toward good have been heard even too late. I won't just say about the Rafahs. I won't just say about the Belaras. I won't just say about armored cars. I will not say about all the proposals we make in the economy. But I'll tell you a very simple thing. Our specific proposals are always made in a very simple sense, the undeniable ideological hegemony of the Greek Solution, which is proposed by national goodness, national duty and, above all, the national interest. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] I'm not one of the delusional ones, Prime Minister, and, Mr. Treasury. The attitude of our allies in the two World Wars was well known and is well known, especially in 1920-1922 when they found them with terrifying ease with the Turks. We don't forget that. We must not forget them. This story must have taught us something very simple. Our national defence cannot and will not be taken over by any contractor. Only the Greek takes over the country's defense! No stranger! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] So don't cultivate fruity hopes to the Greeks. No one's coming to support us. But the connections between Greece and Turkey are not determined by military or armament. They are defined by demography. And Greece is dying. Greece is dying demographically. We won't have any soldiers in a while, and that's what the government, Mr. Dendia, and the Minister of National Defence and the rest. We won't have Greek soldiers anymore. Turkey makes use of strategic advantages that we do not use, language, religion, a large internal market, ability to gain national economic power and extroversion and orientation. Turkey is doing this. I will give an example very simple to you, the friends of the New Democracy, Mr. Tsipras and Mrs. Gennamas. In 1999, Turkey was the third largest arms importer in 2018. What about us? With ELVO closed, shut down? That's not right. It's not about getting geopolitical value, geostrategic value by buying weapons. The point is to have value for yourself and because of your territory, your territory, but mostly because you produce your own weapon systems. This is the different philosophy of the Greek Solution in relation to the New Democracy. Because the defence agreement with France, despite the flaws, is likely to improve. It is a first positive step. But in order for the entire step to be taken, an EOZ and a dozen nautical miles is needed. Understood. Don't make the same mistake. He's not the Prime Minister here. Prime Minister, I would like to ask you a question, a simple question. While buying French freshmen, on French TV you made statements. And I ask the Greek Prime Minister: Prime Minister, you have made us be vigilant because you have spoken of mutual concessions and concessions on French television. At the time we bought the ships, the Greek Prime Minister easily said that we would make mutual concessions with Turkey. What can Greece grant Turkey? Let the Prime Minister tell us. Why does the Prime Minister insist on talking about maritime zones, on the condition that the gynaecitis zone is included, which is a unilateral right of each country? You don't negotiate that. President-in-Office, please explain the differences you say with Turkey. You say the differences will be settled by The Hague. You're making a mistake and a crime here. You have acquaintance teachers who don't speak. Let them talk. If we want to go to UNCLOS, we shouldn't go to The Hague. We have to go to Hamburg because that's the only one in charge. You go to The Hague when you have a lot of differences, not one. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] These are the traps set up by the New Democracy and to which I will tell you one thing: we are neither children nor will you trick us with some candy. You say half the truth and you will find the truth of the Greek Solution to you. You're lying to the Greek people. So why don't we go to Hamburg? You tell me why we're not going. We have also "buyed". We didn't buy them. We'll buy them. We don't know what weapons they're carrying up, we don't know anything about corvets, the Prime Minister didn't tell us anything. Somebody let us know. Also, Prime Minister, you and your ministers make mistakes, which we will pay. You said that by buying the wells that Greece is becoming geopolitically autonomous. Where did you see that? Where do you see that? Geological autonomy is when you manufacture the weapons and export them and not when you buy them from others. It's self-evident. This is geopolitical autonomy. The Americans have geopolitical autonomy, the Chinese can have the Russians and the French. Greece doesn't. They must also stop talking to the ministers. I heard the Minister of the New Democracy in a channel - homogeneous - saying that 'the agreement may not include the twelve nautical miles, but we never did EOZ, we did not do twelve nautical miles'. And it's called the Minister of Government, taking hold of Turkey. These should not be said by ministers. Maybe the grocery store in our neighborhood says so, our farmer, the private employee, but the Minister on television doesn't say and he shouldn't say that. Well, they didn't do anything, as a minister said. Then why did we make the deal? Will the French help us when the Turks take Athens? Is that what you mean? Oh, no. In the absence of a completely Greek foreign policy at the level of Ministers. I'm not talking about the face of the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Mr Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs and Minister for Defence, it is necessary to take SCALP. It's over and out. The government must say what its red lines are. He hasn't even said now. Others say six miles, others say 12 miles, others say EOZ, others say semi - EOZ. Tell us what are the red lines beyond which the substrategic weapons available to the Greek Army will be activated. Make a single defensive doctrine at last with our sister Cyprus. You're avoiding it. Why? There is an urgent need to set up a National Security Council. You see we make suggestions, we don't talk in the air. National Security Council at last. I've said it all along. And I'm saying - and I'm closing up here - because we're saying the deal, yes, to prove it. Before I say yes, I will testify this in the Minutes of the House, friends and friends, so that people don't think that the Greek Solution is a party like all the rest. We're different. So we are tabling you in the Minutes after a fight of ten experts all the proposals for smart weapons, the cheap weapons that Greece can produce and it can also be purchased very cheaply, very cheaply. We will present them in the Minutes of Parliament, because the history of the future in 2040 will say: 'They at least said them and did them, not just said them'. In the Minutes, I will testify them because there are many ways of having weapon systems, that is to say, "game Changes", which we say, to change the game with very cheap weapons and, above all, strategic weapons. There's a way. Firstly, we say yes to the agreement, because the strategic alignment of Greece and France with a strong Greece mobilises France. It's for granted. We didn't have ships. Don't lie to the people. Forty years we haven't taken ships. The government's out to get it. We may disagree on ten things. Do they need to, yes or no? They need to. The rest are fairy tales for our party clientbook. Well, stop this. There's no party client list. There is a Greek citizen who must feel security. No more fun with that story. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Secondly, we have a great desire for France to involve the Turkish factor. We've been talking about it for a while. What was the Greek Solution shouting since September 2019? "Greece - France Alliance" not because France loves us but because our interests are parallel in the Mediterranean and we need to use this geostrategic, geopolitical, geo-economic, geocultural. We can take advantage of it, mainly because of its own interests, not because of our own interests. Thirdly, the right to tighten up relations, because France is a nuclear power, one of the only ones in the world. That is to say, luxury for our country to have, gentlemen of SYRIZA and Mr Tsipras, a nuclear power next to, at the same time, come to help us fight. Nobody helps anyone if it's in no interest. Some people don't understand that. That's a great deal of guns, Belaras. I said SCALP. And I live, Prime Minister - and I would really like your answer - to questions that need answers. Question 1, is the Turkish pact officially posted to the UN? Has the UN officially accepted this pact, yes or no? Secondly, was the reduced influence good for the country or bad for the country? Thirdly, do we have differences with Turkey or do we have a difference, as all the governments and all the Prime Ministers have said? Fourthly, does the agreement cover us at twelve nautical miles and with the EOZ? Fifth, you're doing an EOZ with Cyprus? Sixth, will you finally make minings of our huge wealth, natural gas, south of Crete, northeast of Crete, in Kastelorizo, yes or no? [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] And he tells you a man who has had a fight, has been bleeding from 2007 here for gas and oil. Seventh question: finally bring back PPC and the lignites where they deserve them. One example: The 50-doll down. The value of the lignite 230. If $100 the value of lignite goes, it's $460 billion. Who is he who has the right to bury EUR 460 billion of the property of the Greek citizen, the farmer, the farmer, the fishermen, the private employee, the civil servant, all the Greeks. Who has the right to bury lignites, when Germany, which has some in here as an example, as a vision, has lignites, opens lignite plants? Poland itself, Britain itself, China itself. Why do we insist that our 12 billion friends who have wind turbines lose their lives? Well, let your friends go to the blocks too! But open the lignites. Will you ever be serious about the domestic arms industry? That's the eighth question. Ninth question: does NATO finally cover us in a possible conflict with Turkey, yes or no? Tenth question - I told the Minister, he caught it a little, he left it - is as follows: Take care, Mr Tenders with India. Take serious care of India. He's a potential regional player. I told you about France. It happened a few months later. I hope you and India will do that. Because I, gentlemen of the New Democracy, the President of the Greek Solution, expects no French soldier to fight for Greece. We are satisfied that they only sell weapons to us. And that's what the Left, the False Left, forgets that the French don't sell guns to the Turks, until at least now. The Italians sell, the Spanish sell, the Americans sell, the Germans sell. The French never sold us and the French never sold Greece. Let's not forget that! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] And what he said, "Greece - France Alliance", Konstantinos Karamanlis, did so by Andreas Papandreou, we will continue, they do not want any so-called philanthropists. Yes, we'll make Greece armored. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] In international policy, there are neither lasting conflicts nor lasting friendships nor only lasting interests. That must not be forgotten by any of us. So we say loudly, yes to friendship with deeds, not to theory, yes to equipment. That's what the Greek Solution says. In order not to have a war, however, we say yes to the extension of the territorial waters to twelve nautical miles, we say yes to the EEZ, which is connected with Cyprus. We say yes to the hydrocarbon extraction. We say yes to the extension of lignite plants. We say yes to not giving citizenship to anyone who comes yesterday. We say yes to the Constitutional Court. We say yes to the abolition of the betrayal agreement of the Ambassadors. We say yes to philosophical measures. You all say what you're saying. This is the big question, because you have culturally equalized the country. You did, after decades of degrading the language, history, religion. With the fragmentation of Greek society, you made ignorance and ignorance to our children on a daily basis. Our children don't know. Tensions, wood, clashes between fans, clashes between children in schools, wood with ANTIFA, wood on Greek birds that lift the flag, chase them in the narrow, Nazis to caradoon and attempt some in here to regenerate the Nazis and I'm ashamed to say it in here, unfortunately! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Government that divides vaccinated and uninvasive. You have all made a society - I will say it directly - divided Greeks at the critical moment, when we make a match move to get the ships and we must be united. Turkey is caradic. We therefore appeal to Greek citizens, to those who did not vote in the previous elections, to 55%: do not expect the regeneration of the state. Find yourself by reading books. Read classics, read Papadiamante, read anything else. Turn off the TV. And I'll say it quite simply: TV is seriously harming the brain. The brain is an amazing organ. She's got ninety billion cells. It works unstoppable day-night, until the man who stops his brain opens the TV. Why does it stop? Because the New Democracy controls everything, controls the media, controls the social media. Where did you see that, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, party Twitter throwing it and there was no Greek solution on Twitter as a party? Where have you seen this? Where did you see the Greek Hoaxes controlled if the president of a party says it well or wrong? Where did you see all this? Only in North Korean type regimes. And the Prime Minister is not here to tell him, here to speak to him, to address him a political reason, that he cannot leave his trolls or the people that New Democracy pays to do harm to others. You just exist in Greek dreams. You scare the Greek every day. You tell him "Security do you want to live or risk, do you want to be compromised or incompatible, do you want to be imprisoned or free, do you want to be scared or brave, do you want to be a diplomat or a revolutionary, do you want a party or a protagonist?" What do we say? We chose, between fear and dream, the dream of Greece, the dream of the Greeks, the dream of Hellenism. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] And because I was talking about the media, I'm going to say this. Check the media, check the social media, check the PSE, check the polls, drop the bills. But you don't control everything, it doesn't work. With steadfast polls, problems are not solved. Only yesterday - no one said it in here - the police and the investigators in the Chancellor in Austria invaded a set-up poll. In Greece there should have been many polls in prison with the fake polls they do. Many of them had to go to jail, because they serve and serve a dirty and black system, the unique feature of our time. Today's time has some historians, if you like, depending on previous situations. The whole is the only historical period that we are going through in a characteristic, the only one: it does not destroy the opponents biologically, no. It marginalizes them and fades them. This makes the paradigm of the New Democracy glossing every other voice, every sensible voice. I'm hanging up here, Mr. President. We have arrived with New Democracy from the Cartesian "I doubt it, I exist" to "if you doubt me, I control you". An exquisite road to the New Democracy. An exquisite road. So to give you the answer: we tell the Greek citizen that we are neither left-wing nor right-wing. We don't care about all of this. What are we asking? Give us a Sunday out of your life. I want every Greek who now sees a Sunday in the elections to go and vote for any other party, except those parties that brought the country here. Any party. Check, search, find, search. One Sunday out of your life and the Greek Solution is sure to give you thousands of days of joy, thousands of days of happiness. We will fight, win, we will make Greece and the Greek proud! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Mr President. The President of the Group of the European People's Party, Mr Giannis Varoufakis, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a defensive agreement at the table. The enthusiasm of the Prime Minister and all of you, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, was particularly impressive, as you presented it. You are presenting this defensive agreement as a move to strengthen national independence, and that is why I imagine you seem so excited. We collect it as a move to weaken the already collapsed national independence and national defence, and that is why we are voting against. SYRIZA, the Qualification, considers that your agreement goes in a right direction, but not far enough. We believe that it is going too far, in the very wrong direction. What direction? In the direction of a race of arms with Turkey, which, in law, cannot be won, which will push us deeper into bankruptcy, thereby weakening national independence and defence in the long term, with the result of this weakening, of course, the highest risk, the higher risk of conflicts, namely greater national insecurity. Ladies and gentlemen, national defence requires three basic things. Firstly, national defence requires a government or government over time that can and will want to act in favour of our people, without the prior approval of Washington, Brussels, Berlin and Paris. Mr. Mitsotakis, that's not your government. "Yes to everything," you say. Yes men and women are. [[Applause from the Wing of Mera25]] The second thing the national defense requires is the demolition of the debt prison, in which the majority of Greeks and Greeks rotate. Because only this demolition will put an end to the departure of young people, and the young people, our young people, are the largest and most important weapon that shields the country in the future. Mr. Mitsotakis, on the contrary, your government has a loan from a loan to a loan. Every day, you bake the walls of the woodland, climbing young people and young people on the streets for strangers. The third thing the national defense needs is allies who want and can stand up to you at a difficult time. Mr. Mitsotakis, Mr. McCron is not such an ally. It acts as a dealer of weapons with deceptive dreams for a mare nostrum. He's a cynical dealer, who to get his act, promises you a subscription that neither wants to provide you nor will be able to provide you at the difficult time. Your defensive agreement is founded on three myths and two truths. The first myth is you say it works deterrently against the Turkish threat. Really? The opposite does. You are giving this agreement that you are going to vote on today to Erdogan the opportunity to show that the French commitments to you are empty, thus irresponsiblely increasing tensions. Take the hammer. France may neither intervene in the event of Greek-Turkish conflict. The second myth - and I listened very carefully to you presenting it - is that this agreement - you said it - is, he says, a European option. No falseer. Real Europeanism, Mr Mitsotakis, requires a democratic codecision in the European Union within the framework of a common defence policy. Nothing like that even exists on the horizon. Not even the horizon. How can it be done anyway? If we take three words, the word 'European', the word 'defense' and the word 'policy' and put them together, we end up in a joke. There's not that thing. [[Applause from the Wing of Mera25]] Europeanism is right, since you have referred to Jean Monnet - obviously we as Europeans are here, as part of our pan-European effort - indeed requires the unity of the peoples of Europe. Yes, but you are confusing the unity of the peoples with the unity of arms traders. The agreement you bring us does not smell of a democratic Europe, Prime Minister, smells 19th century, smells of a subjection relationship, smells of a relationship that the French party, the new French party, which is the Memorandum of Understanding, is New Democracy, PASOK, SYRIZA, and you have the courage to present it to us as a saving European choice. The third myth: I have not heard you say it today, but you have implied it. But you write it in your texts, and colleagues have said it here in plenary and in your press friendly. You say, and you want to pass this view, that the agreement is a result and a correct response to the strategic void created in our region, as the United States is moving away, shifting their embroidery from the Eastern Mediterranean to the Pacific, targeting China. Whether you are being deceived or trying to deceive the public. Washington, Mr. Mitsotakis, remains geostrategically hegemony in our region. As it was since 1950, as it was from Truman doctrine. The new French influence in the region, which will supposedly fill the gap that is created because the United States is removing their focus from the region, is only a smart marketing of the fake Rafalis and Freights. Let's go to two truths now. The first truth. AUKUS, Joe Byden, Boris Johnson, and Scott Morrisson, the Australian Prime Minister, was so mad at Emmanuel McCron, because he badly lied, 70,000,000 euros lost from the submarine trade with Australia. They ate them and did it in a very vulgar way because while it was an agreed arms market with Australia, Biden and Johnson went in and took him out. So then, from this really unacceptable attitude to France, Mr. Byden, Washington, gave the green light to have a little fun with Emmanuel McCron's anger, who did not forget that he withdrew his ambassador from Washington. You do this just before the declaration of war. You don't do it with allies of the West in NATO. In order to have fun, therefore, after the case with the Australians and the British, in fact, and also with the Paris and Berlin Agreement, what they are doing is to give the European Central Bank the mandate to print another 7,000,000 to 10,000,000 euros, which will give it to Mr McCrone, instead of the 70,000,000 euros that were to get from the agreement with the Australian submarines, which will of course be charged to the debt-growth "Greece" and that is what you are coming to present to us now as a European defence agreement. The second truth. The agreement you have brought us binds us - it really binds us - to the chariot of the French pragmatic imperialism that is evolving in sub-Saharan Africa, with negative results for the whole of Europe and, of course, inhumanely for the people of Sub-Saharan Africa in Mali, in Sahel. You are right in saying that when he was at the European Council, you are right when the European Council under the pressure of the French Government tied all the European people to the chariot of this stupid French imperium. Indeed, together with New Democracy and SYRIZA without hesitation, without hesitation, you are dragging Greece - I am talking about Greece, the rest of the governments are responsible for their own people - on this Viet Nam of this pragmatic French imperium. We shall now proceed to the essence of the agreement which is, of course, the fresh ones. Are you asking us there - well do you - is it not positive that we strengthen the Navy with three freshmen? Maybe four. months ago, you asked us: is it not positive that we are strengthening the Civil Aviation with twenty - twenty - four Rafahs? But think about the logical extension of this. Tomorrow you should ask us in the same sense: is it not good to buy a plane now that it has sailed Turkish? This reasoning of the more weapons we have, the better, not only incorrectly, but also dangerous for our national defence. Incidentally, do you think that with the Ruffalo that is now coming, will Turkish overcrowding in the airspace be prevented from taking the Greek and above our islands? Here you are, here we are, we don't believe that. Did you see what happened, Prime Minister, yesterday - the east of Crete with the Maltese flag 'Notikal Gio', which was repulsed by the Turkish war? If this agreement had been signed a week ago, wouldn't that have happened? I'm telling you this was because you're ready to sign. Intensify tensions with these agreements and markets. Prime Minister, as much as you try, even to give the Parthenon a pledge to borrow more, isopily, how much more can it be done with Turkey? The only thing that the ambition of parity with Turkey will bring is the race of arms that will bring deeper and faster bankruptcy, greater dependence on lenders, where we do not forget that good business has been set up in Turkey. The same ones who give you the green light now to make the markets are the ones who have set up huge business in Turkey, especially in Berlin. Such a dependence and bankruptcy will also be borne by the permanent austerity, will also put out other young people and other young people from the country and will leave the country even more helpless. That is why we say that this agreement weakens the national defence in the medium to long term. Finally, you, the right of this country, who are you still pretending to be the Bourbons, who didn't forget anything from history, nor did they learn anything from history? I ask, because I know that most of you in the New Democracy did not forget the bitter lesson of July 19, 1974, which day Friday, 3.07', if I'm not mistaken, the submarines "Glaukos" and "Near", the submarine "Near", under the commander Vasilis Gabriel "Glaukos" and under Ioannis Panayotopoulos, "Near". We know exactly what happened. Indeed, those submarines were supermodern, they were much more modern than anything the Turkish navy had. Like the Fantuzzi then, in 1974, Turkey did not have them. We know what happened, what the Fantomos did and the submarines, they called them back. The treasure of the then superpower proved to be carbon. And don't tell me that today has changed since 1974, because today we have a democratically elected government. Yes, it is very good that we have democratically elected government. If you dare tell me such a thing, that it makes a difference, then I will only answer you: Imia. You're not telling me, Mr. Mitsotakis. If, the non-born, let us assume a scenario equivalent to January 1996, you are Prime Minister and - we beat up - something similar to what was unfolded in January 1996 with the Imian crisis and even that we do not have three frigates or four, we have ten French supermoderns, to what exactly will the defensive agreement that you bring us today? To be more specific, please tell me: Do you seriously believe that this Greek French agreement would be observed by France with the French navy to speed up assisting the Greek Navy? Do you think that this agreement would prevent all ten freshmen - I say ten, not three - from making provocations, because Ankara would be afraid of the freshmen and the Greek defensive agreement? Do you think that it would do anything that this agreement with France, which is signed today, to prevent the President of the United States from calling and to tell you what Mr Clinton said then to Mr Simitis, in other words,'stay on your eggs, don't move'? Do you think this Greek-French agreement will prevent the United States from doing something similar to what they did at the time in Imia? If you believe even one of these three things, then you're more dangerous than we think. All that this agreement will do is give Ankara another motive to pull the rope to confirm, for example, that your agreement with Mr. McCrone is a "hole" in the Aegean Sea. You'll allow me to make a punk of fun, too, because you did so much today. It can't be a "hole" in the Aegean Sea you did. [[Applause from the Wing of Mera25]] Mr Mitsotakis, the defensive agreement with France you are bringing us is the wrapping up of a cynical arms market, a market that undermines our national defence, increasing tensions in the region and starting a new, futile armaments race. This defensive agreement is the defensive one you use, so that it becomes more fragile than the bankrupt Greeks, the Greeks, the majority of our people, who are more and more bankrupt every day. You want to make them vulnerable to this discreet market of the century. The Greeks have no problem making sacrifices and paying for money they do not have, but to shield our country. This agreement does not shield the country and increases, deepens the debt colony. The defence of this country, Mr Mitsotakis, is not so dependent on equipment. It depends on our ability, firstly, to use the weapons we have at hand without permission from the United States, from Berlin, from Brussels. Second, to keep our children in their place. Which means what? The third is to escape the bonds of the debt prison. So, let the demagogue that we can have guns and bread. Our homeland, weakened as it is by debts, taxes, poverty, will be kneeled further by wearing new armor on the ground. The armor you will pay will be paid by the Greeks, the many, the tax-payers, not the others, who will pay those armor with the bloody surpluses, which also says the Troika's JRC. Is your surpluses of 3.7% not your target for the next few years? - to take off again the same people who are now telling you "stop, take Ruffalo, get some freshmen, get some more loans". They make you increase austerity, increase the primary surpluses. So far - and now I shall refer to SYRIZA's colleagues, not the JRC - the 'Metsotakis S.A.'.'" He was a merciful European Central Bank, the predatorial oligarchy with these fake red loan markets, gambling, Greek in Latsis, etc., sinking the state deeper into debt. Today this oligarchal gagpotti, which you raised in the summer of 2015, “Mitotakis S.A.” comes to add to it a more traditional armaments food. They ask the children throughout the territory “why is Kakali happy and smiling father” and the answer is “why, my child, from “Greece France Alliance”, this particular one, in the most expensive French champagne, a cigar is a cigar”. It's a lot of money, ladies and gentlemen. This is how the traditional nationalist populism of the right comes today to button on the monumental populism that you rescued in that summer of the '15s wearing left cloak. What then did you expect when you did this, Mr. Tsipras, ladies and gentlemen, friends of SYRIZA, when you took them out of the naphthalene in which he put them 62%, so that that night you could go against them and make together the 'no' of 62% of the Greek people in dependence, in diligence? You heard what Mr Mitsotakis' companion, Spanish Casado, leader of the People's Right, who is now preparing for Vox's fascists to take things back into their hands in Spain. I thank Mr Casados for revealing the philosophy of Mr Mitsotakis, speaking to us about the debate they had on the phone. Mr. Mitsotakis sees the world as this and from his side has a sense of that. On the one hand it is the troika, Merkel, Draghi, the Christian Democrats, the Social Democrats, with whom you are now trying to find them, Vox, Casado. On the other hand, it was the 'no' of the Greek people along with the Podemos, together with our partners throughout Europe, to whom you gave that evening of the referendum and dismantled them from then on. As for getting us out of bankruptcy - SYRIZA says the Right put us in the memorials and SYRIZA took us out - let's leave these. You cancel when you say that. We're deeper bankrupt and in 1919 compared to '18 in relation to '17 and of course today compared to '19. But let's talk about today. Today, "Reaction" - with capital A - combines speculation from the many red loans with the profitability of the fewer weapons systems. There's a business model, I admit. It is an entrepreneurial model in which we few Members of the Mera25 will say 'no'. We will not say 'no' with asterisks, we will say 'no' with our souls, with our hearts. It is a patriotic 'no', an echo of patriotic opposition to the equipment imposed on us by those who have destroyed our independence as a country, as a people, as a luxury. It is a 'no' echo of the new movement that is being formed out there at the moment. It is a movement for peace against nationalist populism, which is an update of this movement out there. It is the update of the peace movements in which a Manolis Glezos, a Gregory Lambrakis, took the lead... [[Applause from the Wing of Mera25]] ...and so many other brave patriots who knew that subjection goes hand in hand - with callippi defensive deals and arms purchases like the one you brought today. Mr Mitsotakis, Mr Tsipras, - Mrs Gennimata is not here, I refer to her - better independent and free to fight, to fight for this place with the weapons that we are admiring but subversive with ultramodern freshmen and Rafala, sold to us by the great powers so that we do not have the opportunity to use them, but only to contribute them to their imperialist adventures from Afghanistan and Saudi Arabia to the Sahel. With our "no" tonight we honour authentic patriotism by exploring the dangerous nationalism of the people's right and the expanded Memorandum Arc. With our "no" tonight, Mera25 is here to represent the genuine Europeanism that knows how to link the struggles of this people to the struggles of the Germans, the French, the British and - yes - the Turkish democrats against the imperialisms of each country's national pimps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u71	Following the speeches by the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, the Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, will make use of the right of dentistry, so that he can respond to speakers, in addition to others. The President of the Government, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u72	I cannot begin by commenting on the obvious discomfort in Mr. Tsipras's body language whenever Mr. Varoufakis reminds him of his 2015 emblematic asshole. However, I must say, Mr Varoufakis, that 2021 is not fortunately 2015 and the Greece you described is Greece of 2015, abrupt to the criminal choices of the then government and the unholy alliance that you had formed with Mr Tsipras. Greece in 2021 is a Greece in which the economy is growing rapidly. It is a Greece where unemployment is falling at the fastest pace of reducing from all euro area countries. It is a Greece that can and attracts international investment by bringing back to our home country jobs. It is a Greece in which all taxes on all Greeks are reduced, as we had made an election commitment. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] It is a Greece that is proud, competitive, which knows where it comes from and where it wants to end up. It is a Greece that can now and has the economic potential, in the long term, to invest in the Armed Forces, which for more than a decade, for reasons that you are well known, could not do. I must acknowledge that Barofakis, if anything, is consistent in the line he serves. Clearly it tells us that we don't have to spend any money on weapons, go fight with our own capabilities, with what that means, because we just can't stand it, we're bankrupt, and with the weapons they're going to sell us, we're gonna need the permission of some people to use them. It is a position in which I disagree vertically, as is reasonable. I do not think that it expresses just a small minority of the Greek people, but I cannot recognise Mr Varoufakis that he has an internal consequence of what you say. But I find it difficult to say the same thing about what I have heard from Mr Tsipras. And I would like to start by taking on the occasion of something you have said, Mr Tsipras. You said quite clearly that this is not an agreement that has some problems which may be corrected, as Mrs Gennamas said, by Mr Velopoulos, who said basically that the agreement is a good agreement, they are voting in favour of it, but it has certain issues. You didn't say that. You said the deal was bad. Isn't that right? It was right to point out that it is an agreement, not a treaty that produces international law. Mr. Katrugalos will explain the difference, Mr. Tsipras. Article 31(4) states that the agreement may be terminated in writing by each of its parties. Will you report her? Tell us, yes or no, that the Greeks should know, that, unfortunately, the Turks, who are obviously not happy with the signing of this agreement, should also know. You must therefore give an honest answer to the Greek people if this agreement with a law and an article you will denounce, if the Greek people trust you again. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] That's what, if I understandably, one of your MPs, Mrs. Jufi. He said quite clearly: 'We will change the agreement'. So you're going to report it, renegotiate it? What exactly are you going to do? You owe at least to friend France - I imagine that you consider it an ally on the basis of all that I have heard - an honest answer, so that we can all know where we stand and be a criterion for Greek citizens when they come to the next polls in 2023. I come to something you said I found quite interesting. You said that we are changing our defence doctrine and foreign policy doctrine as a country. Look, Mr. Tsipras. Let's get things straight. If the doctrine of the country was that the sea has no borders, and that everyone can enter Greece whenever they like, then yes, this doctrine is changed, Mr Tsipras, because we are finally guarding our borders, because migration flows were reduced by 90% by that government, because in March 2020 in Evros we did not allow an organised invasion by Turkey that would jeopardise our national integrity. Yeah, well, we're changing the doctrine. [[Upright Members of the New Democracy applaud vividly and protractedly]] Mr Tsipras, if the doctrine of foreign policy on your own days was to order freshmen with leasing - that is what Mr Kammenos said to us, as if it were a used company car - then yes, we are changing that doctrine because it is not serious things that you were saying. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] One 'we'll get fresh fruits with leasing', the other 'we'll get Frem', 'no, we won't get Frem, we'll get Belaras'. Obviously we also change this doctrine, because the Armed Forces need long-term planning, and yes, the General Accounting Office needs predictability in a depth of ten to 15 years to ensure that the political leadership can ensure that the payments made for these armaments systems do not disproportionately affect public finances. If, Mr Tsipras, the doctrine of the country was to keep talking about the invoicing of international law, but to do absolutely nothing in this field, yes, and this doctrine is changing it, so we signed the agreement with Egypt, which is why we signed the agreement with Italy, and that is why we extended our territorial waters from six to twelve miles. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] If our doctrine, Mr Tsipras, was to leave our submarines without torpedoes, leave our ships on the surface in a situation that substantially makes it difficult for the Hellenic Navy to defend our marine space, yes, then that doctrine is what we are changing. Finally, if our doctrine was to have the Minister of National Defence, Mr. Kammenos, where the ridiculousness was encountering the Kitch and the Great Britain, yes, and this is what we are changing and I am proud at the moment of the leadership of the Ministry of National Defence, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and, if you like, the comparison between that government and the government of which you were privileged to lead. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You referred to something even, and I think everyone perceived your insubstantial. You said that I am very anxious to complete and close the armaments programmes all on our own days, as if what we do not result from the long-term planning of the Armed Forces approved by the CSCE and to implement a part of it only - I stress it - of the demands of the Armed Forces, because that is what we can support financially. Yeah, I'm nervous, Mr. Tsipras. I'm nervous. When I have Turkey against a threat of casus belli, a neighbour who is a type of ally in NATO, but who is aggressively opposed to our country, I am nervous. The question is: Did you have an agony? Because I'm nervous, very anxious. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] It is my first concern to shield the country, it is my first concern to know that we have a strong deterrent potential, defensive at all times, but to send a message that we defend our sovereign rights and our sovereignty in a credible manner with reliable Armed Forces. Indeed, this agreement is exactly what it does. The mutual assistance clause, as formulated, is an extremely powerful tool. Yes, in these cases, the first usefulness of these agreements is to act dissuasively, because they confirm France's will to assist Greece in the event of an attack. Because I have heard a lot from Mr Varoufakis, 'where were the French at the time of great tension', I would like to remind you, Mr Varoufakis, that France was the only European country that also sent warships and aircraft at that time, when things were very difficult last August. We also had other countries from the Gulf, which made their presence known at the "theatre" of the Eastern Mediterranean. Understood. Sometimes I really find myself having trouble with the smallness and the micropolitical approach of SYRIZA officials for something that is a national conquest, if you think this clause really is worthwhile. Mr. Varoufakis has another view. It considers that this clause has no value and that it substantially increases tensions. But you do not say that, Mr Tsipras. You say that this clause is incomplete because it is supposed to defend our sovereignty, so it is good, but it leaves our needs uncovered to defend our sovereign rights. I asked you again. Assemble me a defence aid agreement that makes an explicit reference to an exclusive economic zone and to a continental shelve. Find me one. Mr Katrugale, you have a great deal of experience in these matters. Find me an agreement that makes an explicit reference to these issues. The Agreement refers to the Charter of the United Nations and to Article 51 which is the right of legal self-defence against any attack that will call into question the Greek territory. You know very well first and foremost, Mr Katrugale, - I imagine you know that too, Mr Tsipras - that the clause of mutual assistance at European Union level, paragraph 42(7), is an expression of assistance at European Union level, but it does not have a substantial mechanism for activation. There is considerable weaknesses in this clause, which we must discuss in the context of the debate on strategic autonomy, because I have put it at the highest level at the European Council now that, at committee level at least on the basis of the so-called debate on the compass strategy of the European Union, we will put our options on the table and if we really want to move on this path of European autonomy. So here we have a clause, a paragraph, which is much stronger, because you cannot recognise that this is ultimately positive for the country and enables us to join a country that in any case has been historically on the side of Greece in an effective and substantial way. You made a reference to whether we could buy the brunettes too, if we can afford to buy the Ruffalo. I can assure you that yes, we can afford to buy both, because the Rafael will be repaid in 2021 and 2022 by using the escape clause, thus not burdening our deficit in these two years, the Belaras will not start to repay from 2025 onwards. The question here, however, Mr Tsipras, is whether this agreement, which obviously connects the acquisition of the state-of-the-art wells with the signing of a defence cooperation agreement and the establishment of a strategic partnership, is satisfactory and whether or not you had pursued it in the past. You know, sometimes looking for his files to see what his political opponent has said is of great use. Do you remember what you said in an interview you gave the militaire website in December 2020? So let me remind you. "I have no problem with Rafah aircraft because the leadership of the armed forces tells me it's a very good and useful weapon. If I were to be told by the other side - obviously you are referring to us - that we will also take Rafah, but we will also insist on freshmen like Belaras, not necessarily the ones - I repeat that I am not in this debate - but, at any rate, they would also secure a defensive agreement with France." What you were saying is that we came and we did it, and now you come and you vote against it. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the Government, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Do you know what you did, Mr. Tsipras, in this interview? You thought putting the bar so high for our country would be impossible to reach. That's what you did. Unfortunately for you, thankfully for the country, we went over the high bar you put on and now you are the exposed one because you have to explain to the Greek people why what you were asking for in December 2020, you are now coming and rejecting it. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Shahel. The agreement, Mr Tsipras, - you have read it - clearly says in Article 18 that 'This cooperation can take the following forms without being confined to them.' and says in fact: joint activities, training and military exercises on either the ground, participation in joint deployments of forces or development in resorts, such as those under the French administration of the Sahel. How many operations in the Sahel, Mr. Tsipras? Do you know them? What are the two operations in the Sahel? There is the main French operational operation, which is 'Barkan', a purely French operation with significant military power, which is obviously involved in hostilities primarily with terrorist organisations linked to ISIS and the extremist elements of Islamic extremism. There is another company that is Task Force Takuba, which comes and provides support for the total French presence in the Sahel. Which countries are involved in this operation, Mr. Tsipras? Belgium, Denmark, Estonia, Italy, Norway, Sweden, the Czech Republic participates in French companies. As far as I know these countries have not signed any agreements with France. As far as I know, most of these other countries are not even in the Mediterranean. They consider it appropriate, however, to have their own presence in the Sahel - I stress it - in France in order to tackle a phenomenon that at its very birth threatens Europe's own stability, increases migration flows from the Libyan channel and ultimately puts Europe's vital interests at risk. I want to be quite clear. Greece has not agreed to participate in this force, but also to do so, it would do so in this context as other European countries do. Your populism about coffin returns with the Greek flag is that I have heard in this Chamber since I took responsibility for the governance of the place. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I close with two more general remarks concerning two of your retreats in your prototype. I do not think there is anything more funny than you mention - especially you - in the words of our poet that the national is true. I think you understand irony when you're talking about truth. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I think you have guaranteed in the conscience of the Greek people what Bernard Shaw says: The punishment of the liar is not that they do not believe him, but that he cannot believe anyone. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And finally, I have to tell you that it bothered me and I don't think I was alone, a revulsion you made for "little Greece". You spoke of'small Greece'. Greece, Mr. Tsipras, is only small if you see it that way. We do not see Greece as a small one. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We see a country with confidence, with a strong geopolitical presence, which has a role in Europe and which is a stabilizing factor in the Eastern Mediterranean. We're not a small country. We don't suffer from majesticism. We know where we're going, we know where we want to go and we won't allow anyone to bring Greece to your small size.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u73	Immediately afterward, the Chief of Officerial Response and Chairman of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, Alexis Tsipras, is called for in Stepma for his own denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u74	Mr. Mitsotakis did not endure and in his denology he clearly made all of us the "little Bogdano" that hides within his soul. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] He made a speech of arson, a speech that does not suit the height of a Prime Minister, a speech divisive to avoid answering the essential questions raised by all the wings of anti-Population, other than the Greek Solution, to the essential questions raised for specific aspects of the agreement. He did not answer why he did not select this defensive agreement in spring 2020. He did not answer why the EUR 3.3 billion market in spring 2020 was an exact market that the Greek economy was unable to withstand, because we had the obligations of the Council of State decisions in relation to pensioners' retrospectives, and today the 5 billion agreement that is not only the freshmen, but also the corvettes together, in addition to the 2.3 billion Rafalis, additionally a series of costs that Mr Mitsotakis decided lightly on the heart when we counted on the last euro, such as the 2 billion for the Air Education Centre in Kalamata. Now we can handle all this while we didn't take it before. I want to speak with arguments and not with slogans, as Mr Mitsotakis once again has done from this step. I understand the very serious internal problems you have,... [[Laughers from the New Republic ward]] ... your need to step on two boats: on the one hand, on the Central Right boat and on the other, on the Acro-right boat. It's not easy, and especially when it's trifle in the sea, anyone who runs on two boats falls in. But you have asked me very specific questions, Mr Mitsotakis, which I will answer one by one. You have addressed with one reason for dissatisfaction by saying that we have had a doctrine, my own words, defence and foreign policy, which left the country - you have said this once again - a clear vine. And you wondered, "We didn't have an agony?" Mr. Mitsotakis, we had neither Belara nor Rafala, when Turkish research ships - accompanying ships from the Turkish warship - came out to the exclusive economic zone of the country outside Kastelorizo with the "Barbaros" to do research! So we have not come out to say that it has wind that lurks these ships into our exclusive economic zone. We have not come out to say that they are not conducting investigations and that is why our sovereign rights are not being violated because they are making a fuss about the adjacent ships. We didn't put the tail under the legs and we didn't have either Rafah or Belaras, but we defended the sovereign rights of our country with the presence of the ships of the Navy there! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] You, Mr Mitsotakis, on the one hand press on the doctrine of Gerapetritis, that our red line is the six nautical miles and, on the other hand, in the opinion of Mr Samaras and many others in your parliamentary group, that a red line is itself the dialogue with Turkey, because - as the former Prime Minister said - 'we should not be in dialogue with pirates'. How, then, will you reconcile these two views, these two doctrines and with whom are you ultimately? You also told me a lot and I'll catch one - one. You have not answered the basic question I raised to you. The main question that I asked you, Mr Mitsotakis, in criticising the agreement you brought us was whether we had this agreement when in the summer of 2020 our sovereign rights from 'Oruts Race' were violated when it arrived six and a half miles outside Kastelorizo, when another research was later arrived seven miles east of Crete or when - possibly - it will be violated by investigations, in the presence of Turkish warships, the exclusive economic zone you signed with Egypt. Because when you declare EOI and sign, you have to be able and defend her. If you were to answer to me directly in your speech that there is no question and regardless of what the agreement itself says, the French navy will be there in order to defend our sovereign rights and there will be no violation of our sovereign rights again, then I would be the first one to say that things are different. But you did not dare to say it, precisely because you too believe that the doctrine of Gerapetri is your doctrine, the six nautical miles. You have come and told us that you have moved within the framework of the country's financial possibilities for the purchase of armaments. And I told you in my first speech: 'We really didn't want the country to be strengthened?' Do you think that if the country had the budgetary capacity to spend 10 billion euros as you now spend, we would say - stick to ideological blindness - that we do not want to? But the country does not have this budgetary capacity and you know that better. Nice toys and affluents every time Varoufakis gets to this one for the summer of 2015! As if we were to forget in this country that before 2015 there was both in 2010 and in 2011 and in 2012 and in 2013 and 2014 and some governments went bankrupt in this country and led us to this unfavourable situation of the three successive memoranda! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] As if you were forgetting that in 2009 you delivered the country with a deficit of 9%, while your obligation was to be below 3%. As if you were forgetting that part of this inconsistent logic that led us to bankruptcy was the great armaments expenditure. Superficial armaments expenditures on a armaments race! Where did this armaments race lead? We are the first to seek the strengthening of the Armed Forces on the basis of our capabilities and this is what we did from 2015 to 2019 and with the F-16 that was a suggestion of the military personnel and the P-3 who were and had your signatures, the previous government. But you come as if there is no tomorrow and you are advancing the contributions of the Armed Forces by announcing a series of purchases. He tried to answer from the Minister of National Defence about Kalamata. Mr. Panagiotopoulos, it was an interesting location, extremely touching your effort. But, you know, Kalamata I know her better than you think -- not the city of Kalamata, the Kalamata deal. Kalamataians here are a lot of people, I'm not. The agreement on Kalamata is very well known, Mr Panayotopoulos and Mr Mitsotakis. Very well. For corresponding offerings, not as inflated as the one you chose, had been here for today. And I personally had received suggestions and had rejected the logic of an excessive waste, because I also had suggestions from OHIM and from the head of then General Civil Aviation and later head of the General Staff of National Defence, Mr Christodoulou, as well as from then General Staff of National Defence, Mr Apostolakis, who gave me a file specific to the possibility, with domestic costs and forces, of being able to have the same result. So half the truth you said, Mr Panayotopoulos. Half the truth you said! We then examined all possible scenarios and offers, such as transnational agreements and offers for the purchase of leasing, but also our own development of the centre and the purchase of our own, so that the planes stay. In 2018 we managed to have offers for leasing about 1.2 billion euros for twenty years - what you now go to 20 billion - including maintenance and other training aircraft of T-6, which we have twenty-five aircraft. Eventually, while the continued competition improved the offers and moved towards the proposal of our own centre development and the purchase of our own aircraft proposed by most of the competitors, namely the M-346 of the Italian LEONARDO, you and what did you do? The whole last debate you ignored it and immediately after a trip by Mr Mitsotakis to Israel, in the summer of 2020, you announced - again ex-institutionally - a leasing agreement with an Israeli private company, ELBIT SYSTEMS, for 20 years at the initial cost of 1.5 billion euros, which now has reached 1.849 billion euros and will go over 2. The worst is, however, the heavy frontal burden on payment. We will pay 600 million in 2022, 2023 and 2024, and if you question me, I have the relevant documents from the General Accounting Office of the State. And what exactly happened? With the first document - signature, Mr Sklaakakis - you sign that we will give the first three years of EUR 389 million and that day you will also sign a second document for EUR 202 million in addition, i.e. EUR 592.24 million in the first three years. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] In 2022, 2023 and 2024 we will give 600 million euros! With EUR 600 million for the purchase of LEONARDO's LEONARDO, which each makes from EUR 20 to EUR 25 million, we would have bought ten aircraft, and we would have had all the maintenance costs of the remaining T-6 and all the operating costs, with the money you give for the first three years, to enable Israelis to buy the aircraft and make them let us out of EUR 20 billion in depth, i.e. an excess of EUR 50 million per year. And when we asked you a timely question, Mr Panayotopoulos and Mr Mitsotakis - if I am not mistaken - on 20 April to come here to the House to explain the case of Kalamata, you refused to come here to answer the temple of democracy. And it is not, of course, the first time question that has not been answered, but then do not accuse us that we are supposedly talking about scandal. Very specific arguments we tell you about cases that we had handled, I had handled myself. So easy. So great a financial opportunity is the country suddenly within two years! Three years ago, we counted the last euro. Now suddenly you're too late. You told us about the Sahel - again with intelligence, ironic, arrogant style - that there is no question, because there are two missions and Greece has not decided to participate in these missions. If I understand correctly, that's what you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u75	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u76	The Sahel case was not remembered, Mr Mitsotakis, after the defensive agreement, where we saw it - to our surprise! - special references to Article 18. The case of Sahel, the possible involvement of Armed Forces in battle positions - not our country's supportive forces in Sub-Saharan Africa, in this strip of countries which are actually affected by terrorism and instability - this possibility and danger were identified by our MPs, a series of Members of Parliament - headed by Mr Katrugalos - on May 7, 2021, to the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of National Defence. And then we asked them whether it is true that the Greek Armed Forces intend to contribute to an operation that is not part of a European Union operation, but to the French 'Barkan' operation that started in 2014 and aims to combat terrorist organisations. And you answer us, then, your two Ministers: 'We know that the military operation 'Takuba' is a French initiative involving a coalition of Member States of the European Union, which is part of the 'Barkan' operation. And what exactly will the Armed Forces do there? 'The purpose of our participation is to provide - in English - 'Advise, Assist and Accompany at right'. What does that mean? You who are an Englishman and have a fine accent, better than mine and talk about Columbia? What does that mean? It means taking part in battles, you answer it. I'm not a populist I'm talking about the possibility of having Greek soldiers, if that happens. I'm filing it in the Minutes. And we're right here to tell you: Will you get this back? We say to you: will you come out with a statement that Greek soldiers under French command will not take part in battalions that give battles and have losses - fifty three losses have of French soldiers - or will you speak generally about the need to support the European Union's initiatives and that our country is not a small country, but a large country that can be involved everywhere by military forces? Look, Mr Mitsotakis, Greece, yes, based on its population and geography is neither the United States of America nor France, it is a country small in geography, but great in the values it serves and the values the country serves is the value of freedom, democracy, social justice and peace! Don't forget that! And peace! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] If you want to convert the doctrine of foreign policy, pretending that the country can now be in all war zones at no cost, you are wrong and the Greek people must know. So you can't step on two boats. I understand the difficulty you are in. Just two days ago, you had to delete one of your MPs. You don't like me talking about it. Why?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u77	We love it!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u78	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u79	Since you have not been able to remove him from your party, you have only deleted him from the parliamentary group. Take care, however, and listen carefully to my arguments: Mr Bogdano you deleted him out of need. A few hours later, Mr. Gerapetritis went to the TV stations to tell us that he has not actually been deleted because he is a member of the party and may be returned. I don't know if it's possible that Mr. Kyranakis asks you to explain or is some deeper, but the people who are watching us, Mr. Mitsotakis, did not understand exactly why you deleted him. Do you mind deleting him why he went to a hate celebration? That's why? You would quite rightly do - I say - if you deleted him for this, and quite rightly it is the view that a party of the democratic arch cannot be found in hate events, civil war vipers, next to representatives of the Golden Dawn, by tabling a wreath hand with the Golden Dawn, because today...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u80	Quiet, please, don't hear anything, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u81	Let me finish! I therefore agree with this view, but, Mr Mitsotakis, you at the same event as your Member, who was forced to delete, were officially represented by the Director of your Office in Northern Greece, Mrs Antony. At the same event - and I am not talking about your other Member, Mr Jekalaya, who is a Member of the region - you have been represented. What kind of hypocrisy is that? And, of course, I would remind you that Mrs Antoniou has been in the area in the fiesta - in this particular fiesta! - hand - hand with the former parliamentary representative of the Golden Dawn. Or isn't it?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u82	Mr President, are we talking about the agreement or are we talking about Bogdano?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u83	You don't like these, they're indifferent. Well, it is not indifferent that we are currently governed by a Prime Minister who is constantly concerned about how to keep the extreme right-wing public in which he is fishing for votes! That's why today's place from the Step of the House with the rigging speech! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] To close this issue, then, I will tell you what the connection is and the agreement and foreign policy. When Mr Mitsotakis put this gentleman on his ballots, he knew very well who he puts it. He put a candidate Member who had come out and said that Tsipras and his former companions beat Papademos, put a candidate MP who had just before the elections and said "didn't vote properly and...whitely to break down the ERT" and then Mrs Spiraki had come out and said she would not be a candidate with such conducts. Nevertheless, Mr Mitsotakis anointed him as a candidate and became a Member of the New Democracy. I put the relevant documents in the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] But what is the link with foreign policy? And don't get exhausted! The foreign policy and rhetoric that one develops from this step but also overall creates consciences, draws up a line. And the line Mr. Mitsotakis has was, I repeat, the line of a small Bogdan. Bogdanos on the proposal made by Mr Sasoli, the President of the European Parliament, in order to seriously examine a refugee resettlement programme from Afghanistan, said 'if he wants the refugees, he can take them home'. However, Mr Mitsotakis himself said that he was in the presence of the Prime Minister of Slovenia, who supported his positions. She said it more politely then. So I close by saying you're locked up. You are trapped in the contradictions of your policy, your need to step on two boats, your need to be both centre right and right at the same time. Not all of this is happening! I would recommend that you speak less on matters of consistency, which, from this Step forward, you said that the Prespes are a national mistake that offends the truth and history of our country and then you came out to defend this agreement by inviting our partners to observe it. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I therefore reply to you in relation to our position very clearly. This Greek-French agreement contains a latent article. It's Article 31. Article 31(2) states that this Agreement may be amended at any time in writing by a joint agreement between both Parties. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I shall not lie, therefore, like you electionally at the hearing on the far right, to your audience for the Prespecies Agreement, which you said you will be vetoing - fortunately you did not! - on the accession of Northern Macedonia to the European Union, neither will I present Janus with another person in the country and beyond, who go to Slovenia and you talk about the need for the accession perspective of the Western Balkans, but here because Bogdan and Samaras do not leave you for two years and you do not bring the three Memorandums of Cooperation that result from the Prespecies Agreement to ratification! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] So you're trapped, Mr. Mitsotakis, in your contradictions. The Greek people must know the truth. In any case...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u84	Complete your proposal. You didn't tell us what to do!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u85	I told you what I'd do. I'll say it again to hear it. In any case, this agreement does not guarantee...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u86	So?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u87	Please, be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u88	Don't be so nervous! Let me finish! This agreement does not guarantee our sovereign rights and does not even contribute EUR 1 to our defence industry. It moves us away from a prospect of honest solution and de-escalation with Turkey and is involved in conflicts far beyond our region. That is why we will vote against this agreement. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And by using Article 31 of this agreement, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, we will change it when it comes to the presence of Greek soldiers abroad. On our own responsibility Greek soldiers will fight to defend the sovereign rights and sovereignty of the country not in Africa, not outside the country, not under the command of other forces! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We will be consistent, as we have been consistent in our values and principles over the past few years, so in the future!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u89	Mr President, will you not comment on this abstract behaviour by the Members of the New Democracy?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u90	We just applauded!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u91	The President of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) has the floor. As far as I understand it, it'll take the time of dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u92	Thank you very much, Mr President. I really wonder, Prime Minister, after all this climate that we are experiencing today, why you do not yet answer the need to sit around a table and talk institutionally, without extremes, without claustrophes, without any applause, without any challenges, to draw up a national strategy worthy of by the Greek people and finally agree to our direction, how we are dealing with Turkey's review strategy, where we are directing the resources of the Greek people and how we are committing them for the coming years. You refused today to give any response to this issue, and you yourself admitted that this agreement goes far beyond your own government service. You have not responded to anything I have put to you, especially the most active diplomacy, which is needed from now on within the European Union, for the European army, for the European Common Defence Service, for the guarantee of borders, for maritime zones, and you have not said anything about what the role of the defence industry is for you through all these agreements, particularly the shipyards. Because, as I said in my protology, we are developing in one country - consumer, while we have infrastructure, we have knowledge - we have the human potential to play a decisive role especially now that we are discussing the future of the European Union on another basis. However, on your part, there was absolutely no commitment, just as there was absolutely no commitment, and on whether to negotiate a reduction in the primary surplus target, that part of it would cover our defensive costs and obligations, so that there would be no burden on the Greek people. Of course you said absolutely nothing about the far right, about your attitude, about whether you really condemn all this and whether it has a basis for all this paraphilis of government officials to return Mr Bogdanou or not. We also welcome SYRIZA to this debate! Finally, as far as I understand it, the only answer you gave me was tax. But, Prime Minister, you know, very well, that there is a serious deterioration in the relationship between indirect and direct taxes, which is precisely what is burdening the weaker and the poorest. You know, very well, that your policies are about reducing taxes on large companies and their dividends. We are talking about a reduction in VAT on food, consumption taxes, for which you have avoided making any commitment today. Our priority is dignity in the living of the Greek people and all that we are discussing today concerns him, since we can guarantee him this decent life and its national independence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u93	And now the Prime Minister will make an intervention, obviously, in what has been said before. As far as I can see, Mr. Koutsoubas is away, so then Mr. Velopoulos will have the floor. Come on, Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u94	Mr President, you could ask us for permission.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u95	Please! The Prime Minister has asked for the floor and will continue. Did you speak three times what you had and protest because the Prime Minister is asking for the floor? Come on, Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u96	I owe you some answers, in fact, Mrs Genders, because I have disproportionately dealt with my denology in replying to Mr Tsipras. You have raised two issues which I think are important. The first concerns the budgetary targets from 2023 onwards. You know that Greece has been at the forefront of the European debate on the reform of the Stability Pact, so as to escape from a suffocating framework of quantitative objectives which has proved to be completely inadequate in response to the major challenges of the euro area. We are therefore at the forefront of this debate. It will be an extremely complex negotiation that will take place. However, it is a matter of total concern to the euro area from now on. Obviously it concerns countries like Greece, which have a great deal of debt. We will in any case claim far greater budgetary flexibility than the one provided by the previous rules. Part of this debate is whether there are types of expenditure which may be excluded from the calculation of the objectives for which we will be committed. Perhaps, then, defence expenditure is indeed burdened by disproportionate countries such as Greece which, because of their geopolitical position, have to spend more money on defence. We are not Luxembourg or Denmark. We are obliged to have these defensive expenditures in order to be safe and to have a strong deterrent. Part of the debate will therefore also cover the possibility of dealing with different expenditures, which, because of our position - and not just Greece - are disproportionately large. The same might be true of refugee expenditure. So your remark is correct. In this direction we are moving and it is a debate that will have a depth and duration and we will certainly have the opportunity to discuss the government's proposals in detail in the national Parliament too in the light of this extremely critical negotiation which I think will begin in 2022. With regard to Greek added value and shipyards, you have served as Deputy Minister of National Defence and you know very well that the history of shipbuilding ships of the Hellenic Navy at Greek shipyards has sometimes been an extremely painful story. You know, very well, that unfortunately the Greek taxpayer has charged an extremely high price to acquire ships, just to say that we are keeping live shipyards which, at least in the past, could not be competitive and not even consistent with their commitments to the Navy. And the Minister knows very well how painful this story is and that we still haven't received the seventh Russen missile. We are talking about a programme that was launched twenty years ago. So the Greek Government's choice of freshmen - I stress - was clear: achieving the best possible cost and the greatest possible speed. There was no doubt that if we were to choose to build a ship in Greece, costs would be higher and even to shipyards which we do not know at the moment if they were able to build such a ship with credibility. So we made a decision. But we are negotiating and agreeing - because there are things that have been discussed at the Ministry of National Defence, which is reflected in the agreement, but which will be much more specific when the agreement is finalised for the Belaras - the greatest possible added value, as we have done for the Rafalis, but with ships that will be built in France. And since we are talking about costs, Mr Tsipras, in the negotiation we have received, the cost for both ships was higher than the cost we will pay for three ships! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Why did that happen? You said, in fact, why we were not ready a year ago. Yes, we were not satisfied with the French proposal. He didn't satisfy us! There is no need to be a great knowledge of geopolitical reclassifications in order to understand that after what happened with the agreement with Australia, there has been a great opportunity for Greece to negotiate ships in much better! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And we grabbed this opportunity! And we got a defensive deal. What more do you want to do? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Of course, since we are talking about shipyards, I do not need to remind you of the situation in which we have received the maritime repair industry in our country as a whole. Don't remember that. The case of Scaramaga - which fortunately seems to be coming to a happy ending, as it was acquired by an important Greek shipowner, and I hope and hope that it will be able to resurrect the ship repair zone in Greece - was a problem that you have not just touched, but made it much worse. The same was true of Syros. I was visited two, three days ago by the workers and thanked the Greek Government for the help it provided. We now have a competitive shipyard in Syros, of which seven hundred families are living today. This shipyard can provide excellent services for essential repairs to Greek shipowners. We also have the great loose end of Elefsina, which could also qualify for participation in the building of other ships, not frigates, I stress it, but smaller ships. Perhaps, yes, we could have added value from Elefsina. Scaramagas could, of course, be involved in repairs. I remind you that three of the Mecos were built in Scaramaga. So Scaramagas could be involved in the remodeling of the middle life of the Mecos. We therefore want added value for our shipyards as well and we believe that we will manage all three shipyards to keep them alive. And the GOI must re-enter the ship repair activity, and we can do it. We have craftsmen, we have people, we have quality, we have knowledge. In other words, we have competitiveness. We will never compete with Turkey at price levels - especially in repairs - and we should not. However, we could do so at a cost-speed-time level where a ship is left in the shipyard, which is very important for a shipowner who will choose to repair his ship to a Greek shipyard. And, of course, the Navy must at least have a Greek shipyard so that it can make its essential repairs. That is our purpose, therefore, and that is our plan. I will close with a reference to a point which you both raised and I do not want to leave it unanswered. You referred to the deletion of Mr Bogdanou. Look, since the first time I was elected President of the New Democracy, and certainly since I made Prime Minister, I have made a commitment to the Greek people not to scratch the wounds of the past, but to work to heal them. And this commitment I am doing! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Anyone who goes beyond the limits that we set as a whole in this direction will know that he does not have a place in the New Democracy Parliamentary Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u97	We move on to the seconds of the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups with Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos to take turn, the President of the Greek Parliamentary Group, for his own dexterity. Here, Mr. Velopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u98	I did not expect the Greek Prime Minister not to be polite. Mr President of Parliament, you are not President of the New Republic of Parliament, but you are President of the House. I was following and you had to formally ask me to give the Prime Minister the floor. What you are doing insults both Members and Parliament, but also your own criminal. On the other hand, it is at the Prime Minister's discretion to say: 'Can I speak?' I was gonna give him the floor. We do not need repressive means among ourselves and excesses of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. Let's actually go now, because the Prime Minister is missing. Listening to the controversy of Mr. Mitsotakis and Mr. Tsipras, I remembered an ancient saying, ladies and gentlemen, which says "The city of all morality is like the dominances". Do you know what that means? The spirit of the entire state is the same as those who rule! I'm sorry! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] I'm sorry, because this state doesn't want the Greek Solution. Politicians who excel and deal with other people's personal issues do not want them with the Greek Solution. We want a state of pureness, with political beings that will deal with politics rather than with what one is doing and what another does. The Prime Minister did not answer any of my questions, except for the fact that he admitted that he was wrong. He came here and told us that it was a treaty, a treaty, a treaty, a leap of falsehood, because the treaty makes international law, while the agreement is something else. And he admitted it. The Prime Minister did not answer any of my questions, except for the fact that he admitted that he was wrong. He came here to tell us it's a treaty, making a leap of lies. The treaty makes international law, and the agreement is something else. And he admitted it. The Prime Minister did not reply to us: Firstly, if the Turkish memorandum is official now that we are talking to the UN and it has been officially posted. Secondly, if we have a reduced influence and if it is viewed as a success what the New Democracy has done. Thirdly, if we have any 'differences', as he said on French television. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, tell me you, its Members, what are the 'differences' that Greece has with Turkey. 'Disputs' are only one, none else. Fourth question: Will it restore lignites? He didn't answer us. Also, do they cover us since they didn't do the twelve nautical miles and the EOZ? Will the Prime Minister and Cyprus join us? Will the Greek Prime Minister make mining with New Democracy? Is he going to deal with the domestic war industry? All these questions together with whether NATO covers us in a possible conflict with Turkey, whether it will deal with India and why it made an agreement with the Americans five years, while the agreement was every year, were not answered. We believe in national debt, we have said 'yes' with reservations. He, loyal to his party line, does not respond to the key, major national issues that concern the serious Greek citizens. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] We give them the others, or we are talking about far-righters - I don't know what you're saying to them - MPs who will cut their heads off and send them away or you're dealing with other kinds of issues that are important. That's why with Kalamata said Mr. Tsipras, he's absolutely right. There's a serious matter there. But my question is: Does the refusal of national defence justify SYRIZA's behaviour? Clearly not. Even in Kalamata where there is a matter, clearly not. For the Sahel, I have insisted on Mr Tsipras, and I repeat it once again: that is where they are not being paid. Mr. Tendas, are we going to payroll if they go to the Shahel? Oh, no. They're gonna go professional soldiers who get paid, take more money and choose to go, they want to go. Most of them go voluntarily. If they don't go, I say, would SYRIZA vote for the deal? Prophecies in sins. That is why I say that for us nothing can be politically correct if it is morally wrong. Nothing. You're wrong with SYRIZA and you're wrong with New Democracy. With personal confrontations, with peaks, with shots, you do not create politics. The Prime Minister said that the agreement concerns the territory. Half-truth. The New Democracy MPs, who are nervous if they will be re-elected in the next election, did not hear what the Prime Minister said? It's not about the whole territory, because it's not about the EOZ. Do you only know how to applaud New Democracy? Don't you have a clear mind to realize that it's half the truth? What's the territory? The reduced influence on the EOZ? Six nautical miles, not twelve? Is that the territory? So if you want to believe that you did it for the sake of the country - I am addressing the Prime Minister, Mr Teddy and the other Ministers - do it now AEZ with Cyprus, do twelve nautical miles. We'll call it back and say it again. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] In conclusion, I would like to say two very important facts about those who know very little financially. Turkey and Argentina are the two most dangerous countries for the global economy for those who know the economy, at last, not in theory. In relation to their economy, they are the most vulnerable in an imminent crisis. It will not be long before this crisis breaks out in the two countries, possibly on the basis of energy. Argentina is not threatening Greece, however. Turkey is threatening us. Turkey is our potential enemy, the only one, the only one. We have other issues, but that's a real matter. Maybe she's extracting her internal problems outwards. What do we have to do? Fight with what? On a forty-year-old ship? With slings? With a laintouche? The government did well and gets the three specific ships. He's better off using them if he's willing and willing to stop buying weapons we don't use. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Please all: Do not use the term "North Macedonia" for the pseudo-state here. Don't do it. It is a question of transnational relations. It's not about the Greek Parliament. Have you ever heard a speech at the Skopje parliament? Everyone says 'Macedonia'. Why do you say "North Macedonia"? Tell me why. I'm begging you. They've blatantly violated the deal. He's the Minister of Foreign Affairs here. Let's open the television receivers to see the Skopje parliament channel. They say no one is "North Macedonia". Let us stick to the Prespecies Agreement. It's a transnational agreement, it's about state relations. It is not Parliament's concern. Why 'North Macedonia'? To addict the Greek in "North Macedonia" and swallow Macedonia? The Greeks do not swallow any "Macedonia". Macedonia is one, it's Greece and that doesn't change. To end fairy tales. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have completely different doctrines, we have another perception as a Greek solution. What is your doctrine toward the citizen? "Don't give up on your dreams, keep sleeping" you tell him. "Don't bother. We are here and we will resolve everything." Half the truths and lies? What's our doctrine? Don't give up, Greek. Keep fighting. Don't ever win. We will always fight for Greece and the Greeks. Not the lie, not half-truth! Only true to the Greeks!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u99	After the end of Mr Velopoulos' dentology and seeing that Mr Varoufakis is not here, which means that we will obviously not have a dentistry from Mr Varoufakis, we shall proceed on the basis of the organisation of the procedure, which we have done to the six speakers. I call on Mr Andreas Nikolakopoulou, Member of the New Democracy for his own intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there are times when we all understand, we all feel that it is of the utmost importance for the country and for the nation. Attitudes that the Greek Parliament is called upon to take major decisions that define the country's course and future. Moments, such as the ratification by the Greek Parliament of our country's NATO membership agreement on 18 February 1952, or 28 June 1979 of the Greek Act of Accession to the European Communities inspired and implemented by the national ruler and founder of the New Democracy Constantine Karamanlis, but with the support of yet another great leader of Valerie Ziskar d' Estén. Moments such as those which this Parliament has lived through the extension of the limits of the Greek state with the agreements demarcation of maritime zones with Italy and the exclusive economic zone with Egypt. Another crucial and decisive decision is that we take today and face up to history to strengthen a friendship based on strong foundations, common principles of values and ideals, on deep faith in freedom and democracy. These common and strong foundations that go back to the Greek Revolution led Greece and France to joint militarisation in two world wars, on a common European course, on a common course in the Atlantic Alliance. Ladies and gentlemen, with this agreement, our country's strong allied ties with France are now gaining strategic character, with close foreign policy coordination and close cooperation in the fields of defence and security and cooperation in many areas, such as the use of new technologies, the exchange of information, the defence industry. There is no doubt that this agreement strengthens our country's international role, strengthens its geopolitical and geostrategic position in the Mediterranean region, in the Middle East, in the Balkans, in sub-Saharan Africa. It strengthens its role as a credible ally and a partner geared to the principles of international law. In addition, however, through this agreement, our country is shielded by gaining an advantage not only in the air but also in the sea. The Armed Forces and our Navy after many years are even stronger and modernized through the acquisition of three state-of-the-art wells with the possibility of gaining even since this comes after the acquisition of twenty-four state-of-the-art aircraft of the fourth generation, as well as upgrading existing aircraft. The country's defensive and dissuasive power is multiplied by sending a power message capable of preventing anyone who is overseeing our territorial integrity and our sovereign rights. Alongside the mutual defence aid clause contained in Article 2 of the Agreement, the protection and integrity of the Greek territory and Greek interests are now becoming part of the defence planning and France, a major military ally in NATO. For the first time this agreement clearly covers any threat even from NATO's allies, which to date has not been self-evident. And we must note, ladies and gentlemen, that for the first time since World War II, our country signs such a clause with a country of the European Union and NATO. And the Government of New Democracy for the second time after the United Arab Emirates agreement, has signed such a defence cooperation agreement. So we send out a clear message in every direction. We seek peace and stability and good neighbourly relations. But we are able to defend our rights against any threat, because we have strong deterrent power and strong alliances. Ladies and gentlemen, this agreement takes even greater importance and dimensions if we consider the geopolitical conditions in which it takes place and the challenges that are being opened in the future. The United States, Australia and Great Britain Agreement and the shifting of the centre of gravity of American foreign policy into Asia, the Pacific Ocean create a new challenge for Europe, a challenge for a new geopolitical role worthy of economic power, a self-evident course of common defence and security policy in line with common national and European interests. A policy parallel to and complementary to NATO and always based on the same principles and values. We as Europeans have to take care of security, said President McCron. The same vision has been expressed by our Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis who, as early as August 2019, has been talking about the new architecture of the European Union, a Europe that protects its citizens, which effectively guards its borders. This agreement therefore opens the way for the debate on a new European vision for strengthening European defence and through it to strengthen European unification. And in this challenge, our country and France and the two leaders are leading and leading. Ladies and gentlemen, in this rendezvous with history at this critical moment for the country we are all called upon to take a position. In this race, some starve and lead and some stick to ideological strangles of the past, seeking other solutions that have failed. Some others are proving once again inferior to the circumstances, saying not even to everything that underpins strategic traditional alliances in our country, trying to interpret closely an international agreement as if they were interpreting any agreement of civil law, reluctant that such an agreement has not only practical and substantial value but also huge symbolic significance with sound messages, by admiting that a strong alliance between two friends and allies is not mainly resulting from the forcedness of a legal text but from the building of strong links of friendship, trust, common values and ideas but also common interests. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the strategic partnership agreement with France is a leading moment for our country, I would say historically. It defends national interests, shields the Greek Armed Forces for a strong Greece, with an upgraded role in the European Union and NATO to always aim peace and stability, with a view to a stronger, more effective, more autonomous, more united Europe. So, in this crucial decision for the present and future of our country, let us act in harmony and harmony, and let us overcome our ideological differences and decide solely on the national interest by voting in favour of this strategic agreement with France. Because, above all, it's our country's interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u101	Thank you. Mr. George Tsipras has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to begin with a position taken by the Minister of Defence, Mr Panayotopoulos, last week in another sentence, which said that we did not put a single screw on our day for the Armed Forces. I will not talk at all about the past before 2010 that all the Greek people know, no matter what you say. The big cost is not the misery itself, but that in order to give misery we would buy much higher prices of weapons systems and even worse - and that is not only about the Ministry of National Defence, it is also about other ministries and other systems - other choices were made than the ones that had to be made. I'll talk about 2010 then. From 2010 to 2015, therefore, due to the crisis and the memoranda, and for other reasons, the defence budget was reduced, Minister, by 50%. Nowadays, the defence budget has not been further reduced. On the contrary, it increased by 7%. Secondly, because you do not want to say so, we have for the first time moved on for years to the option - which is important - of upgrading the younger eighty-five F-16 as well as to P-3. And noteworthy would all be in the ODA. Everything that the NDA could make would be done to the NDA. Let me tell you here that one of the eight and more billions that will be given in total for the Rafalis and the freshwaters will not enter a single screw in the Greek defence industry. If you're looking for the screw you can't find, there's the screw you can't find in the Greek defence industry. And I'm coming back. We launched the upgrading of the four MEKOs which have been unduly delayed for two years, because it would have gone into a process of packaging and launched the first priority of the OHIM and then and in your days - this has not been denied, and now ask the OHIM the same thing - which was the reinforcement of the Navy. Instead of that, what did we have after 2015? While the Navy was a priority, we suddenly had the announcement to buy eighteen Rafahs, because there are money apparently. The four MEPs, according to your statement, went from 160 million to 450 million. They almost tripled because there's money. For the former F-16, the thirty-eight aircraft we were negotiating, but we did not have the money - there were other priorities - to upgrade to what you want to upgrade to Block 52, the cost would be 150 million, and today we are listening to 700 million. That's what the papers say. Or if you want another number, we've been negotiating about 450 million again almost half of the 700 million to upgrade to Viper that is for you, anyway, out of conversation than I understand. And of course the crown of the issues that have a trigger smell is Kalamata. Previous things have been said. I won't repeat it. However, I shall refer to two numbers in relevant publications. That you may not know. The offer from the Canadians was therefore competitive at 62.7 per year and from ELBIT at 62.5 per year. This is a post. But I think these numbers must remind you. Seek the corresponding documents in the GDR. From about 62 a year to 90. How did we get to 90? That is the first question. And the second question: In the next three years - the President of SYRIZA, Mr Alexis Tsipras, said before - we will give ECU 592 million in fact for this aviation training centre. I'm sorry, but from the numbers we know - and you don't have any other figures in mind - we could with so much money buy the aircraft not by leasing, stay the aircraft, maintain the twenty-five T-6 and cover the operating costs of the airport for at least a decade. Why this choice? And how did we get in any case - leave it to us - a half-billion increase of what we knew? Even in the committee where the original number came to us, you were talking about 1.375 being negotiated. And since 1,375 we went to 1,849. I'm filing the relevant post. [[At this point, the Member, George Tsipras, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Mr. Mitsotakis said you took the opportunity after AUKUS. Did you seize the opportunity or did others take the opportunity and give it to you and the defensive agreement and other things? It is well known to all attendants in Jerusalem that the choices were for something else and that the defensive agreement had left the table. Let me remind you that Mr Georgiadis in December 2020 publicly noted that the warship program is under way, most likely with the United States. There are all the statements by Mr Mitsotakis. It was repeated before. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, George Tsipras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We were visited by the French. The Elefsina shipyards visited Greece in particular. Other officials visited, made statements to the media in the meantime. Let me remind you of this. The union was visited in April, just a few months ago. In a communication from the association, the French company stated that it intended to build the first frigate in France, in order to allow the training of the human resources and the time necessary for the preparation of the infrastructure in the Greek shipyards, adding that they expect the relevant suggestions from the Greek Government. Interview of the Vice-President of "NAVAL GROUP" just last August, less than two months ago, on a site. NAVAL GROUP, in fact, visited and had meetings with many shipyards, among them the two main, the Greek shipyards Scaramaga and the Elefsina shipyards. Both have the infrastructures and possibilities to implement the complete construction of the wells. In June the CO of "NAVAL GROUP" in a statement said: "NAVAL GROUP" is committed to helping revitalise the Greek shipyards and we believe that, with our support, the Scaramaga and Elefsina shipyards will be able to build this latest generation of freshness here, in Greece. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] There is a simple question: After you took the opportunity, what changed since April, from June and just August, a month and a half ago, to this day? Have the French changed their minds? Has the Greek side changed its mind? The Greek side wanted them all to be taken from France, like the Rafahs, where there will not be a screw, the screw you were looking for! I'll go down.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u103	I'm sorry, Mr. Colleague, but you've reached eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u104	Is time running out?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u105	It's been over long ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u106	I hadn't seen it. I'll finish right up. Because there was talk of a timid lust of the Navy, the timid desire of you has been neglected all the time. A statement by Mr McCrone was made that 'we Europeans must not unnecessarily accept international developments'. First of all, I would like to say that Mr McCrone has made other statements, such as that NATO is politically dead, which would deserve to be discussed, and you probably do not accept it. But that statement says something. It is precisely that, as a government, you have, to date, accepted, on the one hand, the international developments and changes that exist.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u107	Please, Mr. Colleague, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u108	One final comment, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u109	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u110	Apart from the change of doctrine, when it comes, with the dispatch of troops abroad and Saudi Arabia and now, with the proposal of West Africa, apart from our involvement in asymmetric threats posed by jihanism - and has been mentioned by other speakers - there is also the side of refugee flows.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u111	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u112	Only one comment, Mr President. There is a huge zone on the planet, from West Pakistan to Afghanistan, Iraq, Syria, Yemen, Libya and all the sub-seasonal zone where we have fame states, states under collapse that for security reasons and for hunger reasons are pushing hundreds of millions of people to leave, go to...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u113	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u114	This situation will, then, be intensified, first and foremost, the policy of many governments, particularly the West, is not helping in its direction to see the problem at its root.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u115	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u116	It is very bad for a country like Greece to be involved in these policies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u117	Now Mr. Kegeroglu has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u118	Of what is being heard and said today, one understands that our biggest problem is the lack of understanding on the major issues. When we cannot reach agreement on the national strategy and on defence programmes, then you understand how difficult it is to get to know other issues. That is why I would point out that on this issue raised by Mrs Gennimata, there was no answer and it was perhaps the only one for which all the political leaders had to spend their speaking time. And the most negative is that everyone comes here and says: "We did well. We all did well." Hey, guys, you all do good as government, and in the end things aren't going well? What's going on? Three points in relation to what has been said in the last half-hour: PP3. This programme has been delayed for too many years. When the SYRIZA government promoted it in 2015-2016, Mr. Kammenos told him with question and interventions: "It is outdated, out of the news. Leave it and go to another option for planes of maritime co-operation." He insisted there. It's 2021. They're not complete and they're even more outdated. These are issues that we need to see in time and not praise ourselves that they went ahead. For God's sake! C -130. From over 12 in 2019 we managed to fly one and in 2020 for some time we didn't even have one, because the rain wheel broke! So, what success are we talking about here? For the training center. You know, Minister, I praised you, because since 1.9, which was on campus with the Canadians, you started from 1.375. But to God, put some brakes on! You'll get over Mr. Kammenos, just like work is going. It is, of course, a different quality and direction and we must say that. It's a different structure. But what I have not yet understood - and many of my colleagues have said so - is whether there has been a case for a Greek proposal. I, too, asked the Committee on Equipment for the opinion of the Air Force, and today's Chief said that there was a report, there were discussions, a dossier. And with a request for documents, it didn't exist. Therefore, we should stop this debate and see how, in the best way, and while respecting the taxation of the Greek citizen, we will manage this money for the necessary strengthening of the deterrent power of the Armed Forces. For the defence industry, I have a lot to say, I will say a little bit below, since I am referring to the agreement. And in the question of whether they are necessary for the safe course of our country, transnational bilateral agreements that strengthen its alliances and defence capacity, I think the answer is an absolute and clear 'yes'. The answer also to the question of whether this agreement with France, signed by the government and brought us today for ratification, could be more complete, could be without gray lines and with strong guarantees to safeguard Greece's national interests and strengthen the direction of co-production, is also a pure 'yes'. The Change Movement and our President, Mrs Fofi Gennimatas, also raised the issue of national strategy in her first speech. But we have been tired of putting it in the last few years. We must finally do this and, above all, we must consult ourselves on the initiatives that the government at government and institutional level, the heads of the parties in the respective European parties and, of course, the respective institutions of the European Union, i.e. the European Parliament, etc. The European Union must finally move on to common defence and security, but also to the Eurostar. There is no other option, in order to reduce armaments costs in the medium and long term for Greece with a Turkey that has gone through aggressive policy and, above all, in its pursuit of becoming a strong supra-regional force, protector of Muslims throughout the wider space and, of course, not just that. We must therefore see this agreement not only as a substitute for the European Union's non-existent policy, but also as a first step towards progress. And I think that's the most important thing. This Greek-French cooperation, which we have initiated - and I say 'cooperation' at the wider level - reinforces the defence of the country without doubt, strengthens the alliance that can help us in the crises and increase tensions or even in the armed attack. I think that in the matter that concerns the announced but not yet established, Minister of National Defence, agreement on warships, frigates and possible corvettes, you should exhaust all margins so that there can be co-production. And there can be even what I heard after the Prime Minister who was worrying about me in relation to the national defence industry. There can be, in the direction already announced and discussed, the construction of some or others - if we have different kinds of ships in France, if this agreement goes ahead and then the Greek shipyards. So the time of production will be better. Do not compare with the situation that has existed for so many years and has not been a solution to the Elefsina shipyards with the delays. It's a reality. Or until recently we could not have a development for the Scaramaga shipyards because of the European Union's decision. Today is different. There is an investor plan for Elefsina shipyards, a plan that leads to both resolution and development at the same time. If this is in line with national interests, why not? In fact, a multiplier project by the Minister for Development, Mr Georgiadis, and other members of the government. What happened now? Anything else wrong? Workers are, in fact, in insecurity at the moment. They do not know what will happen next and there can be no resolution unless it is assisted by the Armed Forces programmes. In conclusion, I should like to say a word about national reconciliation, which, in fact, is not an issue today as a first action. You know very well that important efforts have been made in the past to achieve national reconciliation. The most decisive initiative and with the result that it was taken in 1982 by PASOK, Andreas Papandreou and George Gennamas with the national reconciliation policy, which also took a legal form, through specific law and concrete results. So at least the official bodies of the government must not forget and honour it. And I say this because the Minister of Government in Yannina last days told us that national reconciliation began in 1992-1993, somewhere there, while national reconciliation had not taken place before.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u120	The right-wing problem, Mr President - I am closing, in fact - is not just the statement by directors. It is the problem that we see in schools, in PESALs in Thessaloniki and in others, of the infiltration of the extreme right that finds ground with some decisions. There should also be a development of democratic action and democratic dialogue here by all the forces of the democratic arc, as it is in everyone's mind, to deal with it. That is the problem and not only the statements made by political officials. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, too. Mr. Nikolaos Papanastasis from the Communist Party of Greece has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, Mr President. In his denunciation, the Prime Minister chose to respond to Mr Tsipras and Mr Varoufakis, convenient and easy objectives both. They disagreed with the government for different reasons, of course. However, the Prime Minister did not have a word on the fundamental political and historical arguments that the Communist Party of Greece has documented. And he didn't do that because he can't do it. Let the people draw their conclusions. Secondly, by government and opposition, between Belaras and Rafala Corvettes Gowind and F-16 and submarines who went and came to the debate today on locations, none of them know that the fryers, the planes, the submarines, the tanks without the officers of the Armed Forces and the soldiers, the ghosts are expensive iron. Or do they know, but they ignore it? They are being given billions for equipment, but the government owes them a lot of money, owes them overtime and nights, does not give them double standards, because, Minister of National Defence, you have said in the past that the country's finances do not allow it. You separate families, because you effectively refuse the co-existence of spouses. All of these - and they are tens of thousands - should judge your policy. I would like to make one more comment before entering into the essence of my speech. Mr. Tsipras does not launder for the choice of Kammenos as Minister with the responsibility of Mr. Mitsotakis with the choice as a Member of Parliament of Bogdano. Undoubtedly, the agreement we are discussing today on the Greek naval order is a very good agreement. But it is disastrous for the interests of the people. It is another mine in the field of peaceful coexistence between the peoples of the wider region. It aims at new areas of profitability at the expense of the sub-Saharan African countries, creating conditions for participation in huge profits of energy entrepreneurs, constructions, war industry, communications and others. There's a lot of arguments that have been made. This - says - the Greek-French agreement is the best deal from the establishment of the Greek state. Or it is an agreement that touches the limits of the single defence doctrine of Greece of France. The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Lazarides, said so in his report. Obviously, the government by saying Greece means the civil order of Greece. But that's not the point. By fulfilling this doctrine, French boots are crushing the people, for example, the Central African Republic, and not just. This is because the French Government is murdering, extinguishing, condemning an entire people for, among other things, representing the interests - one I shall mention - of the AREVA energy colossus, whose nuclear power plants are in need of ever more uranium in these countries. That's what they pay in blood. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] You are right, ladies and gentlemen of the government, when you say that there is an identification of a defensive doctrine of France and Greece, only that under this title you hide and cover the agonizing effort for a common foodstuff of the urban classes of Greece and France. These doctrines are identified and not among the peoples of these countries. You are exaggerating and superimposing the supposed security potential created by the defence aid clause between Greece and France, namely, reciprocity. You present it as a so-called shield against the provocativeness of the Turkish bourgeoisie. The reality, however, reveals that such commitments are made in the wind of imperialist designs. The same is true in the case of NATO's attitude in Greek-Turkish. This also reveals the European bazaar on all matters. Two hundred years of existence of the modern Greek state and always since its birth, the bourgeois classes, as they were historically shaped in this course, tied the country over powerful countries. It was not once that such a country moved and supported the interests of the Greek people. Gentlemen of SYRIZA said you accepted as strategically correct the Greek agreement. You accept without any objection and criticism the fact that this agreement supports - and is based - the two main pillars of the bloody imperialist interventions, NATO and the European Union. You are trying to camouflage your position with this government behind allegedly disagreements in the formulation of the geographical range of support that states that Article 2 or your so-called disagreement on the form of interventions in Sub-Saharan Africa, possibly called on Greece to assist France. Your attitude is hypocritical and misleading. We ask you directly, however much this question is rhetorical: what role did the Larisa Euro-Union headquarters play? Being the government, they planned and tested operational intervention plans in Africa through exercises. Yes or no? The answer is 'yes'. The Greek Business General of the European Union, the ETUC in Larissa, has always prepared interventions in Central African countries with you. Yes or no? The answer is 'yes' again. You know, what were the scenarios of these exercises written? I read it to you precisely: 'On the occasion of alleged national and racial differences, the European Headquarters undertook to create a safe environment so that a referendum could take place, in accordance with the political decision of the European Union'. It was the 'Milex-16' exercise with you Government. And that is the official wording of the scenario. There were other similar exercises. ‘Multillayer 2018’, ‘Seven Stars – 18’. They all tried similar scenarios. And you were government. So leave aside the so-called ethical inhibitors for the interventions. Your party is stuck to the neck in the creation of aggressive infrastructures against other peoples. Greece is full today with aggressive US bases. It is also revealing that your stance on the renewal of the bases agreement with the USA, an agreement that turns Greece into a clear, military, aggressive platform for the peoples of the region and not just.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u123	Finish, Mr. Papastasis. You've had a lot of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u124	I shall conclude, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, no matter how much you celebrate, you do not hide that this agreement does not serve the people's interests and defence. It serves the general objectives of the Greek bourgeoisie in controversy with Turkish. It deepens our people in the designs of France, NATO and the European Union to fierce imperialist competition, and finally, it goes hand in hand with the Greek American agreement on military bases. It is necessary - and I close, Mr President - for the people to go through the counter-attack, for the capital to be overthrown in order to build mutually beneficial relations and to live peacefully with neighbouring peoples.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u125	On behalf of the Mera25 Parliamentary Group, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs Sophia Sakorafa, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u126	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this Greek-French agreement has given rise to the well-thoughtful and intentionally misleading chatter - I would say - for an allegedly independent and multilateral foreign policy in our country. Behind the big and easy words is the sad reality. Our country does not pursue its own foreign policy. The Greek governments follow obedience to what the great so-called allies predetermined, especially the wishes of the United States. The cynical truthfulness of the Prime Minister who, with a strange injunction, is perpetuating full subjection with his dogma, always given the predictable ally. So we always have with Turkey the relationship that the United States wants us to have. The same applies to our so-called new allies, such as Israel or the United Arab Emirates. We do not have to deal with relations with Russia as well. We had a few years ago a characteristic fact that was not even in the coldest years of the Cold War, Athens going on to deportations of Russian diplomats. It was a phase when the so-called left Greek government served the United States' methods of integration of Macedonia into NATO. Another example. It is easy to communicate triumphs for our infamous effective defence in Evros, where the invasion of immigrants would create a crisis in Europe and especially in the large countries. But at the same time we are looking to find out where the line of defence is when we have to defend, for example, Greek fishermen even in our own territorial waters. The pacemaker and the current agreement are in Washington, ladies and gentlemen. It is an agreement that implements the current United States policy. Moreover, even if the time has come for the famous assistance, any action of both parties will not be removed from the framework established by the United States. So even in a possible Greek-Turkish conflict everything will depend on whether the United States will then allow France to support Athens in conflict with Ankara, the "invaluable ally", as the American Minister for Foreign Affairs calls it today. In the meantime, France, with its well-known colonial history, is developing active political action in the Sahel region in the Middle East and India to which Washington does not oppose. Because of this policy, France is not rarely involved in problematic developments, especially in Africa. For example, what is happening in Mali is not original at all. Today the Germans are about to leave Mali while Russian mercenaries arrive there. Thirty-fourth-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three policies. Tracks, trained in military schools in Turkey and Russia against extremist Islamists. In this area we are now opting for us to be involved and indeed as followers of France's policy. Indeed, what national interest does our active, but always our mandated involvement in these conflicts serve? Ladies and gentlemen, we look back at the relations between our peoples and the peoples of the region which have been built for decades and are doing so because we are now choosing the priority to be followed by the interests of France and the United States. We have not yet been taught, ladies and gentlemen, that the people have their own rules in their historic course and do not follow unnecessarily what the various parties have prepared for - will you allow me to say - corrupt governments? Moreover, the current standstill phase for the new government structure in Germany, which is likely to affect future relations between Berlin and Moscow, is creating a suitable window of time to implement the French plans already pursued since the Sarkozy presidency. We offer Mr McCrone today with this agreement a valuable election gift, since he will have elections in six months, a very expensive gift from a country in debt, from a people who has been suffering for twelve years, huge reductions in incomes and a disproportionate increase in living costs. All - expensive gifts, and even without such recompense. I could mention the strategic Scalp Naval missiles and the vacuum of the intermediate solution until the delivery of the wells. It is absurd to want to applaud you because you are living the cart in front of the horse. Obviously, we consider preventive self-defense necessary. For this, the critical factors are our deterrent targets, available resources and our geopolitical environment. The equipment, ladies and gentlemen, must not be turned into an end. The hunting of armaments obviously does not ensure the country's defence capacity. Real defence for us is responsible policy that creates peace zones in space and in time, policy that prevents tensions and does not follow the strategy of conflict. In this context for a strong, peaceful and dissuasive defence doctrine for our party, Mera25 has the place not in the mining that will otherwise bring no benefit to our people. Calculable for enemies and friends, you don't become by constantly retreating the challenges and simply asking for protection. You must have the will and ability to build stable relationships, mutual interest relationships. And that's not what the Greek Government does. So let us not boast that we have our own foreign defence policy or economic policy. In fact, we all know that these are not defined in Athens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u127	And we thank Mrs Sacorafa. I would ask that the Step be settled in order for the Foreign Minister, Mr Nikolaos Dendias, to take over. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u128	Thank you, Mr President. I'll try to be brief. I will not follow the logic of a full speech because the Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, spoke earlier and analysed the issues relating to the agreement. I would just like to focus on a few remarks made by the Qualified Opposition, both in committee and in plenary. I think these remarks - because I always want to be honest with you - have a basic rationale behind them. The main reasoning is fear, because the government comes to the second half of its term of office, and therefore SYRIZA considers that it no longer has the time to remain consistent in its positions of reason. He therefore considers that he can invent reasons or excuses to vote against government initiatives, even if these government initiatives were targeted by SYRIZA when he ruled the country. I begin with the first pragmatic reasoning that SYRIZA will not vote for the agreement. It is that Article 2 of the Greek Agreement does not cover the issues of the exclusive economic zone. Both the Prime Minister and I have asked, we have challenged whether you want the whole of the dissidents to agree on the basis of this logic to produce or suggest even an article of any agreement signed at any time by the world community involving similar or similar contractual commitment between two states. Of course, the answer was a deafening silence. However, since the simple challenge may not be clear to the wider pan-Hellenic audience, and because there must be a confidence in the average human being about the need for this agreement, you will allow me more diligently to bring in and testify to what we have asked for in the Minutes. I shall therefore submit to the Minutes shortly thereafter, Article 42.7 of the European Union, Article 5 of the North Atlantic Treaty, but also a number of articles of other enormous importance to the parties, which also involve issues relating to the Law of the Sea. I refer to the Agreement between Japan and the United States of America, in Article 5. I am referring to the agreement between the United States of America and the Philippines. I am referring to the Minutes, the agreement between Australia, New Zealand and the United States of America. I am referring to and will be tabling the Minutes in the agreement between the United States of America and Korea. I am referring to and will submit to the Minutes the information bulletin published for AUKUS, the known agreement between the United States, the United Kingdom and Australia. I shall also present in the Minutes Article 51 of the United Nations Charter, because it is also referred to in the relevant agreement. I shall also state - so that you do not think that we are talking only about the Western world - the Collective Security Treaty 1992 between Russia and the former Soviet bloc countries. Finally, from what was once called a third world, the African Union agreement, the common defence agreement. So you understand, ladies and gentlemen, that what you are saying is absolutely an empty letter. Also, the attempt of the Chief of Officer's Reconciliation, by means of viciously alleged questions, 'What will you do if a ship gets there?' "What will they do if a ship goes here?" is a debate that is not appropriate at the level of the National Representation. And I asked the committee if there are any thoughts on this type of debate to be carried out in private, as is appropriate and appropriate to the seriousness of all of us. Because here we are not to gain a small-party benefit from this debate in particular. It is clear that the Prime Minister of the country will not and must not enter such a debate. It would be unacceptable. It would harm us, harm our allies, harm our design, harm our prospects. I also hold the point of many that they do not claim more patriotism than others in this Chamber. In this sense, I think we all understand that the exclusive economic zone is something that is of interest to the government majority. You will allow me to say that the government majority, if there should be a measure of affection for the exclusive economic zone, should have more affection, more interest. It is our signature that the two exclusive zones which the Hellenic Republic currently has. In the days of the Mitsotakis government, both have become. The agreement with Albania also took place on the days of this government. So, what do you imply? That we do not care about exclusive economic zones or obviously not, since we are not a minor nationalist, as was finally agreed in this Chamber? This is important. The second element which was discussed as a flaw in the agreement - I must say why I want to be honest - also in a way that is not correct is the attempt to create fear on the Greek mother - you will allow me to say it popularly - that it "designs the Mitsotakis Government to send your children to fight in the Sahel". A description of the ferrets of the Greek soldiers that the Mitsotakis Government would send to Sahel would be made and sacrificed for some imperialist French interests somewhere in the depths of Africa. Ladies and gentlemen, your need to invent reasons or excuses for voting within the political environment to understand them. Do you need to go to this depth of micro-party populism? Why? This is not how we acted like a government in these matters. I told you that we have signed a hundred and six bilateral agreements and thirty-seven multilateral agreements. We didn't even try to exploit one of them. The Chief of Staff Response was invoked to substantiate the reasoning I developed with a relative glaucoma, a reply of my own and the present Minister of Defence, Mr. Nicos Panagiotopoulos, regarding the operations in Sahel. Because I am aware of the discussions that have taken place with France, and I am obviously aware of the discussions that have taken place at the European Council, and I have received the documents that SYRIZA submitted in the Minutes of this House. These documents are supposed, ladies and gentlemen, to prove beyond question that the Prime Minister has committed to President McCronn that Greece will participate in the fight against troops in the armed department and will participate in the operations in the Sahel. Right? Otherwise there was no point in filing the documents. I see, therefore, the document bearing my signature. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Can I have your tolerance, Mr. President? The document, which is signed, in the relevant paragraph, states: "It is noted that Greece's assistance to the Armed Forces of Mali with a contribution to the multinational "TACOMYPA" has been bilaterally requested by Mali at the official request of the President. The response to this request and any participation shall be considered.’ You submitted this document in the Minutes as proof of our determined, progressing participation which will end in sending liquor from Mali to Greece. If my present-day colleague Nikos Panagiotopoulos allows me, I use the document he signs. The Chief of Officer's Reconciliation read something that is written in the document. It reads: "Advice, assist, accompany at fit" as proof of the role of the Greek troops, with one difference. This is not about Greek troops and reader does not lead to battle. To be honest, that's not what it says. If you look at the first page, you will see that this concerns a description of the operation, not a description of what Greek troops will do. Do you understand? For God's sake! Why do we want to make a terrible contribution to Greek mother? So big at last is the fear of these elections that we have to say that? What if I may, ladies and gentlemen, suddenly now?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u129	Would you excuse me, may I ask you something?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u130	No, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u131	I ask the Minister why he has proceeded with an inaccuracy. I respect him, and I believe that this inaccuracy is not appropriate. That is why I will read the exact phrase from the defence minister's reply. ‘The availability of personnel of the Greek Armed Forces to businesses is expected to provide significant operational experience to them’. It is therefore a confession from the Minister of National Defence to the document presented by the President of SYRIZA on involvement in military operations. Therefore, Mr Minister, your answer to this content, but the document submitted by the President of SYRIZA is different.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u132	Mr. Catrugale, no such intervention is foreseen. Minister, please continue your speech. You poorly gave your chance to interrupt. He's not used to it, and he shouldn't. In the committee you have had all the comfort of asking questions and having answers. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u133	Mr President, I have also been rapporteur and parliamentary representative and I understand the need for any parliamentary representative or rapporteur to defend the nominated party leader. I totally understand that. The document will be filed in the Minutes and can be read. It's just like I'm telling you. In any case, however, SYRIZA suddenly shows up and breaks down his clothes as the Sahel theme to be a distant imperialist business of a French empire of idealism, ignoring that Sahel is a permanent issue in all the European Union Councils - or pretending to be ignorant - and that it has become a common European place, that Sahel is a major problem for the European Union and that instability in the Sahel stimulates not only migration flows, but terrorist attacks and a huge security problem. I provide indicative results of the 2019 Council (Council conventions, presented by Mr. Tsipras, in June 19, where Tsipras, the Council of Foreign Ministers, on February 18, 19 "Security and development policy: It Approved a joint civil - military concept of actions..." a common political group of enterprises or business perception. How is SYRIZA suddenly in danger? Because I also asked the Permanent Representation if there was a Greek representative, and on these issues a Greek representative has never been recorded. On the contrary, yes. So why all this sudden danger? And if I may say something else. Read the text of the agreement, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. Don't seek false excuses. Article 18 I, which is supposed to be what creates the problem for you, read what it says. Does it obligate Greece to send forces to the Sahel? Is that what he says? And you have to vote against the deal? If you see it, you will see that Article 18 - I read to you and I imagine that this is what we will agree that this is read - this cooperation between Greece and France can, can take the following forms. Maybe! And he can, too, when? To support common interests...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u134	Among other things.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u135	Don't interrupt, Mr. Dritsa. Don't interrupt!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u136	But it's text, Mr. President. Do not read half.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u137	Don't interrupt!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u138	The riot is justified. I get it. When false one moves, one tries to cover them by shouting. It's in life. There must be two conditions: firstly, the first condition for going to the Sahel is that we decide and decide on this if it is in the common interest, namely that the Greek Government, now the next one, whatever, considers that it is in the national interest. Article 18 also does not in any way relate to Article 2, namely the provision of assistance. In other words, France is not saying 'if you do not send forces to the Sahel, we are not going to give you defensive assistance'. That's not what this thing says. It's two independent things. So how do these two articles lead to your decision? The one you are asking us for something that is an international original - because you are actually asking us to formulate an article on defence of international waters - and, secondly, a possible Greek cooperation if common interests are to be served. How do you conclude that you must not vote for an agreement which is unique after World War II? It is the only similar agreement signed by the French Republic with the exception of that which, for obvious historical reasons, signed with Germany. However, Germany is not threatened by anyone. On what criteria do you reach and say 'no, we do not need this, do we not want it'? And I would like to end by saying that I am not going to ignore your patriotism, I think it exists - to tell you the following, which is extremely unpleasant and is a qualitative upgrade. I say this because I have heard various thoughts about how to reach agreement with Turkey: in committee I have had the opportunity to tell you, by listing a number of Turkish contradictions with regard to what it says, in relation to International Law and what it is doing on the ground or on the sea or on the air, to be precise. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you not to give your attention to the fact that in recent weeks, if not weeks, Turkey has formulated another thought, which is beyond the incredible which it has been saying so far: it claims that the demilitarisation of the islands of the Eastern Aegean is a term of national sovereignty over these islands. In other words, if the islands are not demilitarized, it is not Greek. And he protested when a Greek Minister took a picture of one of these islands for a few days. And I told you again, weapon systems we bought again, bought the F1, bought the Combattante, bought the MX30 tanks, bought the Miraz 2000. France has never accepted - because I cannot imagine that Greece did not want - to consult Greece on this basis with a defensive agreement. So when we have this Turkey, with this attitude, with this attitude, with this attitude, do you think that Greece has the luxury of not agreeing with a nuclear superpower, the greatest military force in Europe, to sign this agreement? And if you disagree with the wells - not on the gun itself, because I understand very clearly that you consider the weapon to be excellent, but on various elements - here is the Minister Panayotopoulos to give you the explanations, but, in any case, we are not asking you to vote on the free market. Because the Chief of Officer County spoke sixteen, seventeen minutes on the wells and armaments programs not on the deal. Ladies and gentlemen, we must be honest in order for everyone to have a clear conscience. In the opinion of the Mitsotakis Government, there is no scope for national responsibility, which leads to the non-voting of this agreement. So I call on you, in the name of national unanimity, but also in the name of national need - which is clear - you do not have to argue with anyone - to vote for it, to vote for it and, beyond that, we have long to discuss it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u139	And we thank the Minister. I would ask that the Step be settled in order for the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr. Miltiadis Varvitsiotis, to speak. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u140	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Greece is the condom of the free world. It is the extreme bulwark of Europe and European culture. It must be made possible and secure in the interests of the Western world. These phrases were used by Charles de Gaulle from this step in his 1963 visit to Athens, in one of the only four capitals he visited throughout his term of office as President of the French Republic, to show that in post-war Europe Greece had a special feature. The follow-up is well-known for the bases of what we now call 'Greece - France - alliance'. It is the contribution of Ziskar d'Esten, who only at the disposal of his plane to Constantine Karamanlis, when the Athens government had collapsed, the Hurricane Government after the Cypriot disaster, gave the international authority to the then government of National Unity to take over the helmets of the country and to face the real danger. And, of course, it is well known to be a contribution to the whole process of our country's accession to the European economic communities. At that time the EEC decided to break the circle around which it was set up. What was it? It was an economic union between countries bordering on each other and having increased economic trade. With the pressure of the French Republic, the EEC has changed from an economic union to a geopolitical union. Because the accession of Greece, which was not bound by any of the countries - members with natural borders, with which products could be transported, substantially transformed this union into a geopolitical entity. The French President, François Miteran, then came to support the Mediterranean dimension of European policy through the Mediterranean Integrated Programmes, which are the precursor of all the cohesion packages, which we see translate into projects in our neighbourhoods and in our country through the ESDP. Nicolas Sarkozy supported the Hellenic Republic and Kostas Karamanlis in Bucharest, when he vetoed for the accession of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia to NATO at that time and politically supported the country. And it was François Holland to whom Alexis Tsipras resorted on the night of the referendum to support our request that the negotiation that led to the third and painful memorandum remain active. However, it kept the country in the euro area with the votes of this party. These are the historical ties with France. And it was France and President McCron's statements last summer, when we actually lived the most critical phase in Greek-Turkish relations and the mood for assistance, which supported the Greek presence. So we must not forget these when we come and vote at last something that we wanted to have guaranteed both expressly and efficiently from both the Treaty of Lisbon and NATO. And under neither of these circumstances is the question of mutual assistance so expressly, distinctly, based only on the United Nations Charter Treaty. So historically unorthodox can only be described as the attitude of condemnation and non-voting a strategic agreement with France, which links us to political ties within the European Union, but also with which we have today established such a wide network of contacts that, apart from the firm commitment of the Armed Forces to the French industry for equipment - I would remind the Miraz F1, Miraz 2000, their upgrading to category 5, the Raphalis we have now received - we have developed a very wide range of political links that go beyond the limits of close cooperation in the European Union. I am thinking now of regular cooperation within the framework of the Euro-Mediterranean dialogue, in EUMED9 where France's presence as leader of the South actually gives to the whole Mediterranean grid of European policies other than weight and attention, to the recovery fund which could never have been created if it was not a Franco-German initiative launched by many Prime Ministers, particularly to Mr Macron, to move towards enlargement, which would certainly have been out of the European context if there were no French proposal to change the enlargement process, a security issue for us, for our neighbourhood, for the energy issues that are today that are burning and, of course, for the Mediterranean environment. I am saying all this because with France, which some simply consider as a great force, we are bound by ties that only outweigh our strategic interests. Of course, their participation EastMed Energy forum of the French Republic gives the efforts of cooperation between Greece, Cyprus, Israel and Egypt a different geopolitical burden. So you have to think about them before you easily end up in a negative vote against a country that is a traditional ally of our country and will be surprised at the vote, which will come to this Greek Parliament. Because I am sure that there will be no party to vote against this agreement in the French National Assembly. The attitude of SYRIZA, a party which also looks to the French political scene to cast doubts on austerity policies within the European Union, and believes that France can be a strategic ally for our country, as it has shown over the years. Think. It is a little time that separates us from the moment of 'yes' or 'no'. I believe, however, that the image that it will create, not to Turkey but much more to France, your vote will be a very negative picture of an agreement which they think - and they rightly consider - seals a historical relationship, historical links between two peoples, two democracies, two Mediterranean forces that can do what they want. In other words, the Mediterranean must be a sea of peace, cooperation and economic development which unites the peoples and not be a sea where instability is constantly prevailing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u141	Thank you. We are completing today's very long process with the speech of the Minister of Defence Mr. Nikos Panagiotopoulos. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u142	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will not try to adjust the history of the day to this debate. After all, this was the best way of doing this a few hours ago by the Prime Minister and just before the previous Minister for the Interior. You will allow me to make three, four comments and an indication as soon as possible. So the motto, ladies and gentlemen, 'Greek-French, alliance' is not yesterday. The Greek people had called it out loud when Constantine Karamanlis had landed on the plane that his friend Greek friend and friend French President Valerie Ziskar D' Estén had at the time, so that he could come and restore democracy in the country. As the Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Varvitsiotis, has always analysed relations between the Greeks and the French leaders, they were good. Communication has always existed. But this and the relations between the leaders, I think, now have a new dimension. It takes off today thanks to the pleasant consultation in terms of personal chemistry, as well as the conscientiousness in the issues of basic, geopolitical and security challenges in our wider region between the Prime Minister of Greece, Mrs Mitsotakis and the French President, Emmanuel McCron. This consensus, this understanding, this chemistry led to this agreement. And I'm trying to understand today. The government is coming to ratify an agreement with the greatest military force in Europe that wants to be more tied to us. This agreement includes the multiplicity of mutual defence aid clauses for which the Opposition invoked us because we had not agreed on earlier defence cooperation agreements with the French, such as the eighteen Rafah invitation. You insulted us at that time because we did not bring a defence aid clause and because the effort was incomplete. Today really should be a day on which we should be rejoicing rather than sharing. And we should all see how we can support the national interest rather than opposition to Kyriakos Mitsotakis, with a vibrant attitude. And we should find something to say about the agreement or even analyse questions about the defence aid clause, which is a general political and diplomatic clause and not a condition in an insurance contract to discover on the condition of the signature current scenarios. That is what we should do and not, of course, discuss both the equipment and the cartridges of the NSAs and the Kalamata and the rest. I remember, and I said it, but you insist that I repeat it, that a few days after taking up my duties at the Ministry of National Defence, I was trying to find files to sign up for a deposit or payment of partial payments to the NSAs to get a payroll. That's what I did in August 2019. And I was trying not to find any files to sign, to send them back, through which there were criminal clauses for late payment of defence material. That's what I did in August 2019, to remember and what the situation was before what you left us today. I would therefore like to make two comments on the piece of equipment, since, as I have said, much has been said about the agreement. You know, the Rafas decision, like the freshwater decision, another element of this more general convergence of Greece and France, the invitation of these three frigates, came from nowhere or without any planning. According to the new forces structure that we discussed at the end of the year 2020-2025, in the recommendations of all general staff and also according to the National Medium-term Defence Equipment Programme of the current period for the economic part and that of economic planning, the requirement of the personnel to adequately meet the country's defence needs is for forty-eight new generation aircraft - calculated as a new generation after the fourth and fifth and the Raphalis meet this standard - and for twelve to thirteen major strike points. The main impact units are the wells or perhaps the corvettes. So how do you claim that these decisions were decisions without any planning? How do you say that these decisions do not fall within any framework, in any programming, when we have submitted and discussed our plan costly, prioritized, extended over time to the needs of all three branches of the Armed Forces for the next eight years? Do you have the impression that the Air Force does not approve the invitation of the eighteen Rafah, which will become twenty-four, to go to a full degree of this type of aircraft? Do you have the impression that they're displeased? Do you have the impression that the Belaras were not the number one preference for the people of the Navy? Do you have that impression? You can confirm it. We had reached a list of three or four final candidates for these frigates. And there was a lot of spit in this Chamber from many people that we do not listen to the Navy, that we will choose with other criteria, that we will not see his needs, that other geopolitical reasons and not - to say it - in response to the narrow requirements of the Navy people would lead us to choice. But look at what happened. And that was because the Navy worked very hard to evaluate the many proposals. And these were proposals that were being improved as time passed because each candidate came with new elements to make them more attractive on the Greek side. Of course, these were proposals reflecting the central directive of the Prime Minister of the country: you will choose this ship that best meets the requirements of the Navy without a partner. And so we moved, so the Navy moved. You are trying to divert this debate, and that is why I owe some answers to a debate on armaments. I have to tell you straight away. We do not make armaments competition with Turkey, we are struggling to fill the gaps that have been created over time in the Armed Forces. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Because your only complete equipment decided on your day, Mr. Officers, was the famous programme of 500 million aircraft for maritime cooperation, doubtless - if you will - of urgency in terms of the requirements of the Armed Forces. It has cost 500 million to invite the heavyly new torpedoes that we are finishing together with the latest technology, directed to increase the power of the land army from Evros to the islands. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] These two together are as much as the P -3B, as I know, the first thing they had given us, but the programme is cancerous and this has some excesses in terms of its economic object. But that's another story. I have listened with caution to the rapporteur from the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs, Mr Katrugalo. He said to us: "We the freshmen had agreed to be built in Greece." And I ask, "Where did you agree? In words? In the speech?’ Because I have no text of that kind. In the Letter of Intent, the intent statement you never signed? In this text that has no legal commitment, but is a mere declaration of intent on both sides in order to go to this great armament for the invitation of the two, and not the three, because that included the agreement at the time, for the Navy, why did the LOI never signed? I signed it with my French counterpart in October 2019 in Paris. To remind you of the road map, you know that the conversation about the invitation of new wells from the Navy is old. It started for days Kostas Karamanlis and Nikola Sarkozy. Then he started the theme of the Fremm fryers invitation. In February 2016, the French side came and suggested that we buy the new french, Belara. In November 2017, a meeting of the Greek Joint Greek Defence-Technical Cooperation Committee was held in Paris and submitted by the company a proposal for coproduction of wells. On 19 April 2018, the Supreme Navy Council approved the suitability of the proposed French Frey Belaras and the meetings continued. In September 2018 - the months are running in the meantime, we have already reached the two years of negotiations - a meeting of representatives of the IAEA took place at the premises of the IAEA - General Assembly with representatives of NAVAL GROUP, where they were given part of the proposed technical agreement, in English, between the two Ministries. The technical agreement was never signed, nor at the October 2018 meeting in Paris between the two Ministers. In March 2019, "NAVAL GROUP" comes and calls for the French side to sign this famous LOI, the declaration of intent, from Greece, since we were then negotiating a transnational agreement. This is not the case, only negotiations are taking place in negotiations and months are running. The Letter of Intent was finally signed on 10-10-19 in Paris by me and Mrs Parli, it concerned two frigates. The deal's on. The French had no precise idea what they wanted to do. They were helped design the formation of our Navy. They had their own philosophy of the frigate, we had ours. With every negotiation, with each meeting, he'd cost up. In August 2020, we concluded - we did not agree - to a cost of 3.3 billion for two defence ships in the region. We decided that this was inconsistent and we froze, we did not finish the negotiations and we asked for them to come back with a better proposal. The burden of the budget had arisen from the well-known case of the retrospectives of the Council of State, it was considered financially inconsistent. The French have left and returned with a better proposal with the other candidates. That was the road map. You received a negotiation with your leader and your rapporteur. Excuse me, it's not about picking up negotiations when you're a Minister of National Defence. The point is to receive aircraft and ships having made the negotiations, having closed the negotiations, having finished. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You know, Mr Dritsa, that in a year and less than the beginning of the initial discussions with DASSAULT we have already received a military aircraft. See and see that these speeds are at least unusual.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u143	You said yourself in '18, 19.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u144	As far as the issue, which you rightly put, is concerned about the involvement of the domestic industry, look, yes, we all want to see a shipyard in the Greek shipyards. However, if we want the delivery of these vessels in 2025 early 1926 and the end of '26 early '27' we have to accept that this work cannot be carried out by the Greek shipyards in their current state. And you know there is an urgent reason and attractive term in the contract in terms of France's rapid delivery of these ships as quickly as possible. I explained earlier. But there are alternatives. If we satisfy the alternative given to us and move on to the acquisition of three corvena, as you know 5 billion has been budgeted over time for the Navy, 2.9 are committed to the acquisition of these three frigates, so there is also a financial and financial margin, then I am sure that some of these ships, if not all, will be built in a Greek shipyard, provided that they have overcome their problems. I think there will be the conditions when we get to this point in good because it is true that the question of the involvement of the National Defence Industry is involved. But I will tell you that on 6 October 2021, in other words, it was sent by the Directorate-General for Defence Equipment and Investment to the French side, the corresponding Directorate of the French Ministry of Defence in which our domestic defence industry is asked to cooperate with that of the French, as well as the provision of technology and know-how to carry out this contract, as provided for by the defence agreement we are called upon to ratify today. I'm just going to make one comment about Sahel. Greece's potential contribution to the 'TACOMYPA' operation in Sub-Saharan Africa does not result in an obligation under the current agreement, resulting from the allied relationship between Greece and France, on the one hand, from an alliance which, of course, has a new dimension, especially in the context of the country's participation in an international mission under the auspices of the European Union. Since 2014, the country has been participating in EUTM, European Union training mission Mali, a training mission that is, together with a colonel and commander of information, with two executives at headquarters in an area with severe destabilising tendencies and potential threats and for geopolitical interests of the European Union as a result of its proximity to North Africa and the Mediterranean. Therefore, the ‘TAKAMPA’ is a French initiative and is part of the wider ‘barkhane’ operation. Its purpose is to support Mali's Armed Forces. Who are they involved in this operation? I read: Sweden, the Czech Republic, Estonia - is not a larger country than Greece or on the basis of my geographical knowledge closer to Greece - the Netherlands, Belgium, Italy, Portugal and the United Kingdom. Who have expressed a prospect of joining us? Denmark, Hungary, Ukraine, Slovakia, Serbia, Romania, Norway, Lithuania, Poland, Finland, Georgia and Spain, twenty-three countries. Why is that? What encourages these countries to declare? They intend to assist France in this international mission either with headquarters at headquarters or with the fight of officials from dozens of men not more. Why? Because that, ladies and gentlemen, is a precursor not to create a Eurotra, it still has a future for the Eurotra, but for a development of the European Union's potential to achieve the strategic autonomy that we all want, to be able to take initiatives in areas where crucial geopolitical interests are at stake.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u145	Finish, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u146	I shall conclude, Mr President. [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[To enter pages 303a and 303b]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would particularly like to address my colleagues from the Staff Regulations, since today's debate has a strong French colour. Great Napoleon said: “Never interrupt the opponent while committing a mistake.” We may be political opponents here sometimes and hard, but I think that in order to decide on critical national issues we should not be held and we are not possessed by any hostility. I believe that if you vote against this agreement today, you will make a great mistake. I insist I'm trying to interrupt you. In the large national issues, we have to admit, and it is important to have a consensus. And any dissatisfaction, any irritation not only will not exist in Ethiopia, but if there is no inside the country. Let them get upset out of this country about the agreement we're coming to ratify today. Show, then, that you mean what you said that the agreement is in the right strategic direction for the country and support the agreement by voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u147	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle of and the articles of the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: "Under the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the French Republic on the establishment of a strategic partnership for defence and security cooperation". In accordance with Rule 72(1)(c) of the Rules of Procedure, a roll-call vote will be held at the initiative of the President of the Parliament, as announced at the beginning of the sitting, on the first Article, on the nominee, and on the whole of the bill, due to the qualified majority required by Article 27(2) of the Constitution. In principle, requests for roll-call vote by Members of the SYRIZA and the Communist Party of Greece have been submitted on the articles and on the whole of the draft law.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u148	I will not read out the list of signatories to request a roll-call vote to see whether there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure because, in view of the specific circumstances, we believe that the required number exists. We are therefore adjourned for ten (10') minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u149	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. Do you accept the vote in one?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u150	The House agreed. An electronic roll-call vote will take place in principle, on the first Article, on the nominee article, as well as on the entire draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: ‘Under the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the French Republic on the establishment of a strategic partnership for defence and security cooperation’. I would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, an article, a farewell article and a whole. Make sure that you have voted on all four areas included in the vote. After you have registered your vote, you may check it or even revise it by the end of the vote. For any question, please contact the Bureau so that the officials concerned can assist you. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u151	I would like to inform you that letters and fax numbers have been sent to the Bureau, pursuant to Rule 70A of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, to which they give their vote. These votes will be taken into account in the count which will be followed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u152	Once you have finished, please close the electronic voting system.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u153	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the roll-call vote. A total of 300 Members voted at first. In favour of the principle, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 191 Members. Against the background of the 'OH' principle, 109 Members voted. No one voted. The draft law was therefore accepted by a majority in principle. The first paragraph of Article 300 Members voted in total. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 190 Members. Against this article, that is to say 'Notice', they voted 109 Members. "PARON" voted for 1 Member. The first article was therefore accepted by a majority. A total of 300 Members voted on the agenda. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 191 Members. Against this article, that is to say 'Notice', they voted 109 Members. "PARON" voted no one. Therefore, a majority of the members of the Court of First Instance have been accepted by the Court of First Instance. A total of 300 Members voted on the whole. For the whole, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 191 Members. Against the whole, that is, 'OH', they voted 109 MPs. "PARON" voted no one. The draft law was therefore also accepted by a majority in the total. Members' positions, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u154	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: ‘Preparation of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the French Republic establishing a strategic partnership for defence and security cooperation’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u155	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u156	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-07-S1-commons.u157	With the consent of the House at 19.09 hours the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, 8 October 2021 and 9.00 hours, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent questions.
