ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Before entering the legislative agenda, let me first announce to the House the topical and urgent question report on Monday 20 December 2021. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question by Mr Andreas Nikolakopoulou to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The operation of Hospital Units in Elia". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question by MP Achaias of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Athanasias (Syria) Anagnostopoulou to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "The Observatory Silence of the Ministry of Culture in the Censorship of Christoforos Zaralikos" 3. The question by No 273/13-12-2021 was raised by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Culture and Sports, on the subject: "The devaluation of sports facilities at the National Youth Sports Centre (EKAN) of Agios Kosmas". 4. The question by No 266-12-2021 of the Greek Parliamentary of Serres, Mr Konstantinos Boubas, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: ‘Reassessment of the criteria for the payment of single applications for aid (ESA) 2021’. 5. The question by No. 271/10-12-2021 was raised by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Male: an arbitrariness in the construction of a wind station". B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No. 278/13-12-2021 of the Northern Athens Department of Athens, New Democracy, Georgios Koumoutsakos, to the Minister of Citizen Protection, on the subject: "Agreements for minors - Exploration of minors in and out of school". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Mr Christos Spirtzis, Member of the Commission. — (EL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Christos Spirtzis, Member of the European Parliament, on the matter of "Direct action to protect public health and prevent the dispersion of COVID-19 from complying with the rules on social distance from incomplete police officers". 3. The question by No. 274/13-12-2021 of the Greek Communist Party MEP Mr. Nikolaos Papastastasis to the Minister of National Defence on the subject: "Sixteenth one-off financial support for the soldiers ahead of the celebrations and free and secure movement of them during holidays". 4. The question by No. 279/13-12-2021 was raised by MP B2' West Athens Department of Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Eresos Lesvos: building the unique natural beauty of the village". 5. The question by number 272-10-12-2021 of the Radical Left Coalition MP Andreas Xanthos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "To provide an explanation for non-intensive people, for "skies" in the management of the waiting list and the criteria for prioritization of imports into ICUs." 6. The question by number 275/13-12-2021 of the F' Vice President of Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. George Lambroulis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on "Direct needs for school nurses". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The 280/13-12-2021 topical question by MP B2' West Athens Department of Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Expansion of the settlement boundaries of the village of Great Popgo, in Zagori, Epirus". 8. The question by No 276/13-12-2021 was raised by Piraeus of the Communist Party of Greece. Diamantos Manolakos to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Standards in the process of adopting the Ministerial Decision adopting the management plan for the fishing gear of seines dragged from the vessel". 9. Under No 281/13-12-2021, a topical question by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The Government violates the European Court of Justice's rulings by dismissing the cleaning staff at the Ministry of Finance after twenty years of work." 10. The 277/13-12-2021 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Enlargement instead of solving the problems caused by the earthquake in Arkalochori". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by number 548/21-10-2021 asked by MP Heraklion of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Charalambos (Hari) Mamoulakis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on "Will tolls be imposed at all thirty-two kilometers of the BOAK in front of the city of Heraklion?" 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question, under number 728/29-10-2021, of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr Socrates Famelou, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "In a dead end the country's construction services, engineers and citizens." 3. The question, under number 726/29-10-2021, by MP B' Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr Socrates Famelou, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "The government eliminates the musculoskeletal crops, a wealthy export industry in the country." Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda. LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the debate on the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘State Budget for the financial year 2022’. Mr Christina Alexopoulou has the floor for seven minutes and then Mr Papadopoulos from SYRIZA. I would ask you, today, to adhere strictly to the seventeenth, so that the list of speakers can proceed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Minister, I will start my speech with a very important and much-expected news for us in western Greece, the news about the important project to build the Patras - Tower road route and the final approval given by the European Commission. The whole local society of Achaea, the whole local society of Western Greece - and I personally - would like to thank Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis for his actions and his uneasy interest in this great and flagship work to move forward and finally our region has a modern motorway, without having any victims on this road that we have to date. A project which, in addition to all others, will contribute to local development and operate as an economic multiplier to stimulate the market and create new jobs. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2022 budget is the second in a row drawn up in the middle of a pandemic and a global uncertainty created by the health crisis and inflationary pressures. This year's budget marks the country's return to full regularity and records the transition of our economy from the strong recovery of 2021 to the high and sustainable growth of 2022. These days we are listening to colleagues from the Officerial Response to express atrocious objections to a glass-based budget and to Mr Tsipras speaking of a virtual reality. Unfortunately, for you this economic reality is frustrated by the figures and the real economy. The course of the Greek economy during this two-year period, under difficult and demanding conditions, which were created in a pandemic of course, discredited the Cassandras and endured the triplets that the opposition has often attempted to put into the government work. During last year's debate on the budget, we heard you talk about locking, increasing unemployment, redundancies and poorening. Fortunately for the country, and this opposition account collapsed. What are we today facing against SYRIZA's catastrophe? For example, in 2021 and 2022, the cumulative growth of the Greek economy will reach 11.7% with individual predictions of a significant increase in private consumption, investment and, of course, exports. And I am referring to investments, ladies and gentlemen of the Anti-Population Officer, which you, as a government, were prosecuting from the country and at the same time, through the unjust and unjust taxes that you have imposed, you have broken down the middle class. And the current New Democracy Government - not being able to question this - comes up with permanent reductions in taxes, as we had already made an election. Do you want examples? Listen: Reducing the ENPIA, focusing particularly on the lower income social strata. Reduction of the tax rate on natural persons from 22% to 9%. Reducing the corporate tax rate to 22%. Extension of the exemption from the special solidarity levy. Reduction by three units of insurance contributions in the private sector. Extension of the reduced VAT rates to transport, culture, tourism and other goods and articles of primary concern. I could continue and record a series of additional tax reliefs taken to support the middle-class and households, in full contrast to the four and a half years of governance SYRIZA, where a total of twenty-nine young and unfair taxes were imposed. In the face of what has been said today, the Civic Opposition, the government during the pandemic crisis, is moving on to far-reaching support measures for workers, businesses and vulnerable groups that exceed 43,000,000 euros. At the same time, public spending on the neuro-algal health sector, not only does not fall - as you falsely say - but is increased in 2022 compared with the previous years, reaching a general government level of 6.3% of GDP, i.e. EUR 11.70,000. Ladies and gentlemen, our policy mix balances between economic efficiency and social justice. Unemployment in our country is falling, at the same time as the Greek Government is stepping up the initial programme of 100 000 jobs with an additional fifty thousand jobs. And since the new generation in our home country, young girls, young boys, young children, is the unjustified generation and the one that was affected as much as anyone else in this economic crisis, the government for this purpose goes on - among other things - to increase the social costs related to the child's allowance, the birth allowance, the allowance for any new child's birth, the privileged benefits to people with disabilities, the implementation of the "First Official" programme for young people of eighteen to twenty-nine years, without previous work experience. The mobile telephony subscribers' fee for young people up to twenty-nine years after 1 January 2022 shall also be abolished. The grant of housing allowances to students in public IEK is extended. Insurance contributions for young workers are subsidised in order to improve their access to the labour market. Voucher is awarded for nurseries. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister and the Government have made it clear that at the heart of our economic policy are tax reliefs for households and businesses and, at the same time, boosting investment and exports through an ambitious reform programme. The current government makes Greece an attractive investment destination, with the advent and trust shown by the world economy's colossians such as "MICROSOFT", "AMAZON", "PFIZER", "DEUTSCHE TELEKOM". These investments, ladies and gentlemen, are the starting point for our children, young scientists, the new generation -brain drain - to return our children back in the past few years. Those of you who expel, we today invite them to repatriate and work with high and decent wages. To conclude, Mr President, today, two and a half years of governance of the New Democracy and under the guidance of Mr Mitsotakis, we are reprogramming the DNA of the Greek economy in order to transform the productive model and the way it works. This year's budget demonstrates the responsibility, seriousness and perceptiveness with which the current government faces the challenges and uncertainty of the future. With these considerations, I call on all colleagues to vote in favour of the 2022 budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mrs Alexopoulou. Mr. Athanasios Papadopoulos from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u4	Governments are judged on their readiness, on their ability, on their maturity to deal effectively with the major challenges of every historical period. "The health crisis is the greatest threat to the European Union since World War II. Europe must give greater priority to health, have health systems ready to provide top-level services, be well prepared to face unforeseen health threats." This was stated to the European Parliament in March 2019 by the President of the Commission. He added: 'We will not stop anywhere in order to save lives'. The New Democracy Government didn't do anything to save lives. He did not do what he had to do for the best possible management of the pandemic and the endemics. He did not do what he had to do so that we could avoid the huge dispersal after the first, second, third, fourth wave of pandemic, for integrated tracking, for the valuable role of primary health care, in order to shield the national health system, so that its fighters are not exhausted, so that we do not have intubated patients outside intensive care units, so that they are not subordinated and monothetical, so that they are not forced to cancel up to 80% of their surgery. The government's tragic responsibilities for failure, for stubbornness to include Greece in the worst countries of the European Union in the ten ECDC indicators for the overall management of pandemic, including vaccinations, are accompanied by the 2022 budget and by the provocative ignorance of the dramatic worsening of the course of the pandemic and the dangers of the collapse of the National Health System in the continuing asymmetric war with coronary mutations. The Government reserves all the discussions that are taking place at global and European level on the readiness of health systems to address the new data on epidemics, emerging threats, such as the 'Omicon' variations and/or subsequent mutations, and even on cancer, accidents, mental diseases, years, special, rare diseases. Refers to the estimates by which the European Union has reached the Recovery and Resilience Fund. It is outrageous, ladies and gentlemen, to ignore the multiple crises and the priorities for the allocation of expenditure that we must realise. The government budget adopts neoliberal strangles for the recovery of the economy, with the strengthening of market strength, with low wages, with increased indirect taxes, with privatisations, ignoring the energy crisis, the accuracy, poverty, the explosion of dishonesty. The most worrying thing is that it reproduces the dangerous governmental delusion of imminent return to normality, a delusion that prevented in a long period of carelessness and the progress of vaccinations and the draconian precautions against contagion. The budget was drawn up with the illusion that the health crisis would end in the first few months of 2022, that there would be a normalization at the beginning of 2022. According to all the scientific analyses, the battle with the pandemic, unfortunately, will continue for a further unknown period. It should already be possible in last year's budget for a large notice of permanent posts of the ESS to cover explosive gaps and departures, to simulate secondary and contracted fighters of the ESS, to legislate essentially on the barren calls for positions and barren specialties, such as intensification and anesthetics. The Ministry of Health had to be aware of the measures we have to take in time, the incentives we must give to have sufficient intensive, anesthesiologist, doctors who have called for positions, and unfortunately the crises are atrocious. Now, unsatisfied needs have increased terribly. The pressure on our hospitals is unbearable. Newspapers cannot be carried out without arbitrary and dangerous movements. In the 2022 budget we must cover all the identified shortcomings and at the same time contribute to the construction of the new integrated and qualitative ERAS. You say you want proposals. To provide EUR 2.5 billion for health from the Recovery and Resilience Fund that we can cover several of the needs of equipment, prevention, enhancement of primary health care. To increase by EUR 1 billion the subscriptions to the regular budget for the expenditure planned for 2022. Why? Because the necessary costs, the irreversible costs must be used to increase by at least twice the available IM beds, as we see that the number of patients in transit outside the IMD amounted to more than a hundred and fifty. Let us now legislate on increasing the remuneration of ERC officials, on integration into heavy and unhealthy work, on the overall motives for the atrocious calls for positions for the islands, the ancestors, the barren ones, the barren specialities which are both intensive and anesthesiology, and on occupational medicine, cellology, nephrology, nephrology, oncology and others. We should automatically cover the departures and pensions. We should pay the newspapers in good time. Now we can declare four thousand ESY doctors and eight thousand nurses and other staff. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm closing, Mr. President. The Ministry of Health declares it will proclaim nine hundred and ten positions of U.S. doctors and four thousand nursing staff. That's not enough. If this is the case alone, we will lose most of the two thousand subsidiary doctors involved in the ongoing war with the pandemic and the more than ten thousand subsidiary and contracted fighters of the National Health System, who have proved valuable in fighting time. We will also lose what has proved worldwide to be a need for a qualitative upgrading of public health structures to the emerging threats. It is not a luxury for the new ESS, it is an obvious need that can make it an alternative progressive government. We are not proposing elections now. But an allied progressive government would understand the need for the strengthening of the National Health System to be an urgent priority for the government's work and would also give the possibility of strengthening the EEAS and for intervention in the European institutions for the abolition of vaccine patents, for the provision of the most expensive necessary immunomodulators and other medicines, for the construction of a European health system. Hospitals could be dedicated to their overall tasks, create new local health units, strengthen health centres and primary health care. The bold increase in health and social costs, the building of an integrated and quality ESS, the removal of inequalities, the protection of first home, fair and sustainable development, the new productive model, the new social council on decent work are the key criteria for the new change that must be made in Greece for the Allied Programmatic Convergences to be implemented, for the quality of governance in the major challenges of the historic period. These, Mr Voridis, with the initiatives we are taking, give us the possibility of a protagonist activity for the hegemony of ideas and programming positions in this period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, too. Mr Ioannis Mousalas has the floor, and immediately thereafter Mr Constantine Blouchos from New Democracy. I repeat that the time has to be observed. Here, Mr. Muzala, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the 2022 budget of the New Democracy Government is an ideological, ideological budget with fanaticism committed to the neoliberal programme, which it has been implementing since the beginning. It is a budget, which dreams of a society not even one/3, a 1/5, 20% society. The others will suffer. It broadens disparities, imposes violent poverty on most of the workers and pensioners of small and medium-sized enterprises, young people in general. At the same time, the profitability of large businesses and multinationals is blooming. The total revenue forecast is increased by 5 billion. Total expenditure is reduced by 5 billion. The main source of revenue increases is indirect taxes and income taxes, 2.5 million from indirect taxes, 1 million from income taxes, mainly for employees and pensioners. In contrast to these 5 billion, indirect taxes, people, income taxes on employees and pensioners are involved, the people, 3.5 billion and legal persons, businesses, from 2.5% of gross national product to 2% in 2021 are involved. Your famous tax policy, your famous tax reform! Where is this tax latitude to be applied? The employees and the retired. What time? At a time when EKKA's figures say 41% of the employees are on a payroll of EUR 373 purely and with flexible employment relationships. So here's how you mean reducing unemployment by normalizing the workers poor who were present in 1920 and who Kanes fought too hard with capitalism, not against capitalism, to fight it. Regularity and growth. No children's meals. 1/3 of the population in energy poverty with a report by EUROSTAT, poverty of the middle, violent degreasing, eighty-three thousand non-children, the coexistence of school departments, food poverty, the cutting of medicines for uninsured people and allow me to predict that you will also remove them from the health system later? Reduction of EUR 350,000,000 in welfare, a reduction of EUR 250,000 in the bridge for those who owe it, while preparing to strengthen and implement the bankruptcy code. Normality, then, by launching inflation. Natural gas 180%, oil 45%, electricity 40%, fuel 25%, food supermarket 20%. So normality and growth with an increase in wages of 2%, i.e. 50 cents a day. So cost-decrease and growth by 5,000,000 euros. Based on the neoliberal model you ideally serve, you focus on reducing social costs. Reduction of ESR expenditure of 850,000,000 euros. Social security institutions EUR 1,000,000,000. Expenditure on unemployment benefits is reduced by EUR 150,000,000. Local Government agencies reduce EUR 150,000,000. The national health system in a pandemic that reapes, in a pandemic that comes - everyone talks about the fifth wave - is reducing EUR 850,000,000. We are talking here today about twenty thousand dead so far and twenty-one thousand dead by the end of the year. In the Greek-Italian war, we had thirteen thousand dead and, instead of silence, instead of looking for a solution, you are enchanting lies. There is no other country in Europe that cannot be said in Parliament that people should not know how many intensive beds we have in the end. Thirty-three hundred says one minister, one thousand says the other one, a thousand four hundred said one of your MPs, journalists say everything he thinks appropriate. How many ID beds do we have fully equipped with the staff he needs? How much do we have without the staff he needs and are fully equipped? How much do we have without it fully equipped? Bring the evidence to the House, it's your democratic obligation. But you have no democratic obligations. Refugee to take democratic obligations. Monoclonically, twenty thousand dead. None of us know who'll get monoclonals, when will the monoclonals get them, where will they get the monoclonals? Are we gonna order some more monoclonals? You have no idea! How can you hire tens of thousands of people into the National Health System - which you say every so long - and the cost of payroll is reduced by EUR 140,000,000 in the budget. Mr. Petsas thrown money, Mr. Gerapitris increased the IFs, increased the deaths, Mr. Scortsos Luxury, Mr. Dogsakis didn't see the teeth of a dragon growing. The Tsiodra - Lytra report proves that the king is naked and that naked and you dress it and you support it. In words, you're trying to hide a reality of twenty thousand dead. Twenty-five thousand predict until May, and you're silent, you don't give the evidence. This budget, Mr President, cannot be easily implemented. He is so deeply anti-grassy, he will bring so great problems that you will need to increase your already increased authoritarianism towards society. Unfortunately for our society your way, colleagues of the New Democracy, is a one-way road. The more you go on implementing such balance sheets, the more progressive democrats, who believed you, will abandon you and you will be forced to embrace the extreme right. So you will have to use with para-state methods and a hug with the para-state. SYRIZA has specific proposals: a reduction in indirect taxation, a drastic reduction in tax evasion, an increase in social costs, an increase in a minimum wage to EUR 800, a reduction in excise duty, a reduction in VAT within the European Union. All democratic opposition is voting against the budget. All democratic opposition, beyond its opposition, also has positive positions to get out of the crisis. SYRIZA took the initiative and brought the simple analogue. SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance says the solution can only be a progressive governance. The rest of the democratic opposition parties along with SYRIZA are sitting on the basis of its positive proposals a programmatic convergence so that there can be a progressive government, for the sake of the country, to remove the New Democracy and the zoo that this budget and these practices bring. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, too. Well, now Mr. Constantine Blouchos from New Democracy has the floor, and immediately after Mrs. Pulou. Come on, Mr. Blucho.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u8	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, a rule of faith, confidence, and a picture of prosperity for the Greek people, reveals the truth of things in this regard the truth of numbers. In Aristotle's philosophical question of where the truth lies and where the lie is, the classic answer that things emit the truth and the blurred selfish word void, which emits the lie, finds a field of glory bright in this debate. It says, then, that the Chief of the Major: the government presents a budget, which considers that I have ended the pandemic and transient wave of dishonesty and accuracy, and then calls upon all the members of the Major to fight, to defeat victory relentlessly, destroying the enemy of the people, which the government proclamations rather than the parliamentary wings and chariots of the Great. It's a rough account! Let us see the truth that emits things and the blurred, false word, the patient, selfish, and six perverted minds: We paid the IMF back. Germany's new Minister of Finance congratulates us on our performance and gladly states that we must learn from Greece. Tourism last summer was launched into the pandemic. Our relations with the United States, France, Israel, Egypt and many Middle East or Arab countries have been upgraded as ever, with the head of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs following a solid battling that has been so missing for many years. The Prime Minister visits Israel one day and Russia the other by contributing to the creation of an image of Greece of unprecedentedly upgraded and calculated. Investments by Greek and foreign capitals change our economic life from beyond to, from absolute wear to revolutionary creativity and productivity. Reforms are thieving. We tried to reverse the difficulties of the pandemic phenomenon by passing on to electronic life with a simple mobile that solves more and more problems in our relations with the state. But I remain - in my capacity - in matters of public health. Never has the government ever handled the ship of public health with such consistency and efficiency. You, of course, became masculine in your delusional speech and political aerospace. You have now become infectious in discovering a published research by Mr. Tsiodra and it is impressive how what "other listens..." in the scientific community is so difficult for you, it becomes so simple and in such a plausible way. Mr Tsiodras has so far been a 'government representative' and a government body and an objective of insurmountable members of your staff. Aifne became the witness that reveals the government scandals at the ITH! You have spoken about unanswered fundamental questions and about the hard elements that, yes, they are ruthless, but they are not unique. The questions you put and the themes you choose show the extent of your hypocrisy or rather of your ignorance or irrationality. Ask the Prime Minister if he knows scientific studies of a highly qualified sector. What do you think? The fact that Mr. Tsirdas is his interlocutor also emigrates his scientific burden? Really? Have you ever wondered with your hard indicators of morbidity and mortality in the ESS, in the good times? Are you trying to convince what? That everything is happening now in this National Health System? The inequalities of the National Health System have now arisen? The unequal distribution of centre and periphery now too? Which, yes, clearly and influencing the quality of health services in the region at least. And since you are probably a highly scientific teacher, it is urgent for international literature to show you how the scientific community works and what international experience. And because they are said by the mouth of colleagues in this House, I will mention one - the rest I will not mention - as if there are intensifiers and anesthetists and they are so much of their offer that we do not want to take them! Look at the global map that the international community of the anesthetics company has published in terms of poverty in anesthetics. Just one! And I will not mention many other examples. For example, I submit some bibliographic references from the crowded international literature about what is happening in the rest of the world. Look at them. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Bluchos, presents for the Minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, there was never another government in front of it a major opposition that works for misery as a weapon and method of war of the government as a method of decay. The inappropriate treatment of legitimate and unfair means of crisis management is constantly smuggling the national effort, undermining a burden of citizens with a tone of prejudice and disobedience, and social cohesion is being put at risk. So, then, are some in zeros engaged in arson statements and rhetoric fireworks to harm what and whom? The easy criticism, the inexpensive start with the support of the ESS, which is a key part of the management of a health crisis and is a potential for the health system to respond. The first mistake in reasoning was and remains that everyone avoided - mainly you - the realities of the ESS. Your ideological happiness and political monism have not enabled you to understand it. Many of its fundamental harm and chronic structural pathogens and, of course, forced conscientiousness in the years of the Memorandum promises. And the answer to this reality came with the management and support of logistical infrastructure and the management of the country's human resources, by mobilising and moving forces and the demands of the private sector. Successing what? Ensuring the functionality which is now clearly evident in our regional structures, our regional hospitals, where we have been most hurt. Support for logistics and medical equipment has been permanent and given throughout the crisis. And while by the mouth of a former Minister of Health, your own, the dominant issue for strengthening the ESS is the stimulation, strengthening of the morality of the people of battle, you choose with looted voices and vague ideas to flood public dialogue with deaths, their percentage and the management of severely ill patients in IFs and outside IFs. An inappropriate, delusional, multiple bad methodology! Today, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about more than double the IF beds with the most suitable logistics infrastructure, which is not questioned by the most illusory ones. And since we have secured such a larger number of beds, are the questions followed: Would something bigger? We have ensured adequacy. Here too, it seems clear how paradoxical and how inappropriate such questions are being used. To increase the IF beds is an undeniable need, but we are talking about IF, a particularly sensitive environment and functions in it in absolute specialization. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Your tolerance for a minute, Mr President. The potential of the system confirms that medical staff - entatics, in this case - are exhausted in human reserves because there are simply no intensiveists - and anestheticists, in this case, to others - and objectively and objectively, neither are they baptized and, of course, when the rest of the staff require specialisation. This adjustment simply does not exist for the Greek reality, not now, in recent years and when the functional adjustment of human resources in such an environment requires much time. So we call for a specific number of staff to respond to situations of increased needs. The least required is respect for their efforts, respect for their struggle and, above all, respect for the struggle and despair of our fellow peoples in the unpleasant position. And let me as a health minister the exaggeration to talk about ideology beyond immorality and malignant populism, since we have put in the dialogue terms and medical indicators that are difficult for us scientists themselves and you think that for the general public it is both simple and intelligible, such as mortality, mortality, morbidity and exaggerated mortality. Indicators are difficult, but they are the subject of a fertile scientific and ongoing debate, here they are becoming, unacceptably and inappropriately, a field of political controversy. There is no commitment to public health, ladies and gentlemen, but to misery. However, I will leave the opposition to its own problems, which it swears is beyond the dispersal of the 'wrong' image of our economic and social situation. Ladies and gentlemen, when competitiveness is strengthened, when the country is upgraded, any forced burden on ministries such as health and labour costs means that we have a serious social state in which people do not fall because they prosper the numbers. This government is doing real development. "Development" will say jobs, new jobs, private capital investments in Greece. "Development" will tell you to dare put the individual in the public sector's jobs, so that there will be a consortium. "Development" will say to reduce taxes, help the person who has and possesses not "salf" his money in bank warehouses, but throw his money into the market, in jobs, in investments, in consumption.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u9	Mr. Comrade, please. You've already reached ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u10	I shall conclude, Mr President. The economy and society, ladies and gentlemen, have changed. What Great describes pessimism for this budget makes it a budget of responsibility, a budget of consistency between words and projects and, above all, a perspective budget. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, too. It is simply a request to all colleagues to keep time, because we will be going again 1.30 minutes after midnight, and as a result, your colleagues who are toward the end are complaining. That's not right. Now Mrs. Panayios Pulou has the floor from SYRIZA. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u12	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, a virtual reality government could only draft a virtual budget. A virtual budget is submitted by the Mitsotakis Government for 2022, stating that the pandemic will end in the first quarter of next year, its effects on households and businesses will disappear, and we will all return by magic to normality. Really, Mr. Ministers, how many more times will you promise the Greek people return to normality? You did so in 2019, when you take the power, you did it after the first wave of pandemic and with a lot of nerve you do it and now that the double pandemic has led the country to a unprecedented health tragedy but also to a deep economic crisis. The black daily record of our thirty fellow citizens who arrived the day before yesterday, the nineteen thousand five hundred casualties to date, the hundreds permeated outside of the ICM and the vaccination programme that does not go hand in hand are not lifeless data and figures. They are lost human lives that your poor government could not protect because it does not believe in public and free health. This is also demonstrated by the scientific study by Mr Chiodra and Mr Lytra, where it is documented that thousands of our fellow humans with COVID-19 would have been saved if they were treated in appropriate ICUs. Here, then, is the study requested by the Prime Minister from this Step towards Opposition in order to be allegedly convinced - by pretending - that additional MSF is needed. However, this study records the wide variation in the patient's quality of hospitality between central and regional hospitals. It is unfortunate that the fellow citizens of Central Greece, since it has been found, the ICUs at the reference hospital in Lamia do not work as well as the second reference hospital in Chalkida, are always saturated. Do we, ladies and gentlemen, share how our fellow citizens in the CIVID wards of the Livadia and Thebes hospitals, when they wait for them to be transported into ICUs and there are no places? How do relatives who have lost their people feel because they have not been able to obtain full health care in ICU? Questions are vague and concern to all of us. However, let us now see what this public health budget holds. Instead of shielding the ERC with staff and infrastructure, it cuts down by EUR 820 million the regular budget of 2022, but also the extraordinary expenditure from EUR 1,25 billion in 2021 to EUR 736 million in 2022, and if needed. It reduces expenditure on primary health care by 360 million, resulting in Boeotia, as in all over the country, not operating local health establishments such as the Livada TOMY unit, but also dissociating health centers, rural hospitals, to assist regional hospitals. Nor does the budget guarantee free diagnostic centres for everyone and does not provide for costs of dilution in school rooms and means of transport, without regard to actual over-transmissions. However, money will definitely be found for the new 'Ploris list' with almost 5 million on the channels again. But, apart from the tragic sanitary deadlock, you condemn the Greek people and economic impoverishment, you strangle the real productive forces of the country, industries, small and medium-sized traders and professionals, farmers and farmers, workers and households. First of all, production is crushed below the cost of energy and the sweeping price rises it causes. Small and medium-sized enterprises, the focus, hotels, small-sized enterprises for processing agricultural products are burdened with a great deal of electricity every month, and even the industry is charged with an increase of EUR 150 million per month in the low-voltage and medium-voltage current, but also with an increase in production costs of between 20% and 40%. And all this, of course, ends up in explosive appreciations. Traders across the country complain that every month they are forced to announce new pricing lists with large increases that are naturally passed on to consumers. But you, Mr Ministers, are also indifferent to the huge liquidity problem of small and medium-sized enterprises, since you have imposed their exclusion from bank lending for 12.8 billion of the Recovery and Resilience Fund, while at the same time you are not planning to use the Development Bank. About a month ago in Boeotia, the focus was universally involved in the pan-Hellenic mobilisation of the industry, asking for immediate support measures to halt the wave of redundancies and locks. And now, for the environment and energy, your Government continues the completely unregulated EIA facility, destroying areas "NATURA", virgin forests, archaeological sites, areas of mild tourist development, and even land of high productivity. The example here in Boeotia is one of the most characteristic in the country. You systematically favour only major investments, leaving out the energy communities and small and medium-sized businesses, and even "Security" you are responsible for delays and malfunctions, after the new programme has been opened and the two previous ones have still not been repaid. In addition, farmers are also in the eye of the economic cyclone with doubling of the price of agricultural oil and triple the price of agricultural electricity, with an average increase of almost 69% of the price of fertilisers, as well as increases of 30% to up to 70% in feed. However, your government prefers to stifle them with pitiful measures in the 2022 budget, with a refund of excise duty on agricultural oil of just 50 million and only for young farmers, of course, and the members of cooperatives, leaving out two thirds of professional farmers. Corodia, too, is the planned VAT reduction from 13% to 6% in animal feed, but it is only an accountable size and is not taken as a real benefit to farmers, and there is absolutely no aid for fertilisers and pesticides. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like your tolerance, please. I will omit a part of my speech. Finally, for households and workers the Mitsotakis Government is preparing a budget of extreme poverty. First, it basically keeps the minimum wage fixed for 2022, with an increase of 2% and denies the increase proposed by the SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance at 800 euros, while it provides for additional taxes of 3.5 billion, irrespective of those relating to growth rates. Moreover, when society and our most vulnerable fellow citizens need state support more than ever today you are predicting a reduction in social spending of EUR 1.7 billion. You are advertising that you are giving an exceptional allowance to people with disabilities, while you are cutting care by 53 million and deceiving pensioners with a limited exceptional allowance, when you have already abolished the thirteenth pension that SYRIZA reinstated as a permanent measure of 900 million. In Livadia last Tuesday, retired people, as in all of Greece, proceeded to a dynamic symposium demanding, among other things, the thirteenth pension and fair taxation in retrospectives. And while society is in the bars, you congratulate each other and celebrate. Finally, I cannot help talking about self-government, with your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u13	Please finish. You've reached nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u14	I shall conclude, Mr President. You have had the same tolerance to other colleagues so far.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u15	Now, listen, don't make any setbacks. If you can, please, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u16	As former mayor, I would like to refer to this, please. And with regard to self-government, while loading it with extra responsibilities because of pandemic and while its social structures record multiples of vulnerable citizens, you do not provide it with the relevant resources. On the contrary, you are cutting the CFPs from the municipalities and regions by about EUR 420 million, of course, with your creative accounting, you show it as an increase. In fact, the COVID 400 million deficit in 1921 instead of incorporating it into the budget as a regular grant, you manage it with ministerial announcements supposedly as additional grants and gifts. Ladies and gentlemen, the impoverishment of society, unemployment, health and economic insecurity, the scanning accuracy is the new dystopic regularity brought by the New Democracy Government with the 2022 budget. For the sake of the Greek people, the next budget must come from a new radical, progressive government that will implement a productive reconstruction and sustainable development plan for the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u17	Now we will continue with Mr Digalakis from New Democracy and immediately the Minister for Foreign Affairs will take Mr Nicholas Dendias. Here, Mr. Digalakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my speech, I can only comment on the sudden love discovered by the Qualified Opposition in Mr Tsiodra's face! Each time we joined, ladies and gentlemen, let us not try to interpret and distort what the scientists say, let them do their job. And I am very sorry that our country is the only country where the pandemic has worked as a political confrontation. Two years ago, when our country was starting to emerge from a long and deep economic crisis, the world was faced with the greatest pandemic of the last 100 years. In addition to the loss of human lives, this pandemic has hit the world and, of course, the Greek economy. The restrictive measures on movements have had a serious impact on the economic activity as a whole, especially in the case of our major tourism industry. Our country, like all the countries of the planet, has been under water. Our government had to make sure that the economy, business and workers were given oxygen. He had to do it for a period that was unknown until the vaccine was available to reopen the economic activity. And when we were on the surface again, businesses and workers had to be in such a situation that they could function and lead to a rapid recovery. To this end, the government has put in place a complex and extensive support programme of EUR 43.3 billion for the three years 2020 - 2022 and the third largest support package in Europe, a fourth worldwide. The result was Greece with the successful vaccination program with the opening of the economy leading to a dynamic recovery. We have presented the best performance in the Eurozone at quarterly GDP level, growth of 13.4% and the second best level at nine months at growth rate of 9.3%. According to the budget, the year will close with growth of 6.9%. Conservative prediction I would say after the spectacular results of the economy for the third quarter of '21. Even so, in 2021, we will recover more than 2/3 of the lost product, while in 2022 with a growth of 4.5% we will exceed the GDP of 19% by 1.7%. At the same time, we had the best performance among all the Eurozone countries in reducing unemployment. The number of unemployed is lower than in April 2010 and the number of persons employed is higher than in June 2011. So the government achieved the goal, kept the economy alive and leads it to a rapid recovery. He closed his ears to the sirens of Officerial Response at the beginning of the pandemic for an unreasonable and rapid spend of the measures available in kind, such as those that SYRIZA always backed before the elections, a policy that would have finished our oxygen, ladies and gentlemen, would have led us today to another economic disaster and our people are well aware of it. The economic policy pursued by the government since the beginning of the crisis, but also before it by reducing taxes and promoting reforms, has therefore laid the foundations for healthy growth, which is not based on increasing consumption, but on increasing investment, increasing exports and reducing the deficit in the trade balance. Our country will have the highest investment growth in Europe in 2022. For the period '21 to '23 it will have the highest rate of increase in exports throughout Europe, and we will continue in this way, ladies and gentlemen. The budget of 2022 contains no austerity measures. Increased revenues will come exclusively from the relaunch of the economy and not from any new taxes. We insist on policies to reduce tax burdens on households and businesses and to stimulate investment and exports. We firmly believe that these lead to the necessary transformation of our productive model and to high growth rates in the years to come. We have chosen consciously to return the middle class, the backbone of Greek society and economy to the forefront and stand on its feet. As SYRIZA had consciously chosen the shrinking and bleeding of the middle class. As much as Mr. Tsipras is trying to convince the Greek people that he was forced, he can simply refer to what his then Deputy Minister of Finance had said in the debate on the 2018 budget. We do not believe in money, ladies and gentlemen of the Officerial Reconciliation, but we believe in attracting new investments in peak sectors such as medicines, telecommunications, information technology and these do not come at random as a manna from heaven, but with hard work and commitment to the country's development and reformist strengthening, with the confidence of the partners in this vision leading to successes such as the approval of the Greek project under the Recovery and Stability Fund last July. We invest in young people, young scientists, young farmers. We are bringing research and innovation closer to the economy and production. The word entrepreneurship is no longer taboo in universities. Recently Law 4864 on Strategic Investments was passed, and let me stress its part on the creation of a framework for universities and research centres. With the 2022 budget, we are once again choosing the truth and not populism. We choose the long-term benefit for everyone, not the short-term micropolitical benefit for a few. We are choosing to build a stable and sustainable economy and not a state-owned development. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting in favour of the 2022 budget and I am voting for it, not just because I belong to the government majority, but because I believe in the path that we have worked out and are consistently going these two and a half years. A road forward, accompanied by the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u19	Thank you too, Mr Digalakis, for keeping time. The Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr. Dendias, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in a few days' time it closes another difficult year. Unfortunately, we mourn every day because of the pandemic. Households are under pressure because of the energy crisis, among others. At this juncture the Mitsotakis government has shown reflexes in the critical sectors and, of course, in the economy. It has achieved an increase in foreign direct investment. It took advantage of all possible use of Community funds. It has kept tourism, small and medium-sized enterprises and primary production upright. It strengthened those who have been most affected, especially the economically weak. None of this is self-evident. It is, however, at the heart of the ideological core of the New Democracy, at the centre of the ideological core of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, which is the foundation of this government. The New Democracy, ladies and gentlemen, is a folk party, a historic folk party. The New Democracy supports and supports reforms, while maintaining its folk character, maintains its folk and patriotic genetic material, maintains its ability to speak with the people of everyday labour and effort or, to say it clearly, the New Republic of Kyriakos Mitsotakis is and remains the party founded by Constantine Karamanlis. Ladies and gentlemen, in foreign policy we face the most fluid and constantly changing landscape in the post-war world. We make use of every window of opportunity, but recognizing the reality, namely that Greece and Cyprus have an expansionary neighbour. In recent years this has shown clearly the unprecedented challenges in the Aegean, Evros, Cyprus, the Eastern Mediterranean, but also in the Caucasus, Iraq, Syria, Libya. Ottoman ideologies are indicated: "The border of the Ottoman heart", "The blue country". Against this unprecedented and anachronistic provocation Greece has reshaped its diplomatic tactics and strengthened its deterrent power. In the diplomatic field Greece provided for the International Law and Law of the Sea - UNCLOS - as a common place and a necessary treaty of understanding between states. It brought to the international scene the unacceptable threat of war, the 'casus belli', which Turkey broadcasts. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no country around us, in Europe, the Middle East, North Africa and the Gulf, which we have not visited, both the Prime Minister and the political leadership of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs together. In the European Union together with Cyprus we incorporate, despite difficulties, Turkish provocation and expansion as the main theme on the Euro-Turkish agenda. We have explained the security problem that Turkey is creating in Europe, and why Turkey should not, in particular, be equipped with European weapons. We talked about its 'divorce' by International Law, the Law of the Sea and the protection of human rights. In the Western Balkans, we are helping to overcome the region's past, to become part of the European Union's principles and values. The problems of the Prespecies Agreement are evident, however, on the basis of the 'pacta sunt servanda' principle, we continue to pursue the good interpretation and application of the agreement in order to move forward with our region. In this context we agreed with Albania to refer the issue of demarcation of maritime zones to The Hague. In our southern round, we have created defence alliances, enhanced cooperation, multilateral understandings with important countries of the Arab world, Egypt, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, Bahrain, Jordan, Kuwait, Iraq. With Egypt, as with Italy, we have signed agreements demarcation of an exclusive economic zone. With the Emirates bilateral agreement with a defence aid clause and we contribute to the defence of Saudi Arabia. We have created a multilateral pattern, the 'Philia Forum', with many of these countries and France. And all this on the basis of common principles, values and rules of international law and the law of the sea. We strengthened relations with Israel. The Prime Minister was there a few days ago. Our relations are historically at the highest level and we support Israel's approach to the Arab world. "We read" in time the new architecture of the region, even before Abraham's Treaties. With other countries in the Middle East, cooperation and understanding is permanent: Jordan, Iraq. We have a clear position in the Middle East. In the last crisis in Gaza I was the first foreign minister to be accepted both in Israel and Palestine, promoting the truce achieved after three days. We returned to the Syrian supporting international efforts. Our embassy in Damascus is reopening to an orderly level. We have a special envoy for the Syrian. In Libya, as soon as the transition government took over, we reopened our embassy in Tripoli and our general consulate in Benghazi. We contribute to the humanitarian sector. We've organised a business forum. We're contributing to the decontamination. The Prime Minister was invited to the Paris Conference on Libya last month. The Libyan Government itself invited Greece to the Tripolis conference. In other words, despite the objections made by some, Greece on the Libyan map. In North Africa we are likewise constructively present, from Egypt to Morocco. Our historical ties with Armenia are known in the Caucasus. We have excellent relations with Georgia. We re-created channels of communication with Azerbaijan. I met, you know, in the margins of the recent OSCE conference with my counterparts and Azerbaijan and Armenia. Our credibility, our partnerships have gained momentum that can reach the Indian and Australian. You know that the Foreign Ministers of India and Australia have visited Athens lately. Our views are identified in the critical issues relating to International Law and the Law of the Sea. The same logic is being promoted in the United Nations Security Council. I would like to refer to the effort we are making with the non-permanent members of the United Nations Security Council. We have met and explained our positions to almost all members, to all the ministers of the Council's composition, which will take effect on 1st of the new year. Also, in the context of our new strategy for Africa, I have visited, I have met with counterparts of important African countries, among them members of the Security Council, such as Ghana, Gabon and Kenya, who are already a member. And at the beginning of the year I will visit Nigeria, Angola and Senegal. We explain our positions, we offer our help with vaccine diplomacy, we develop new partnerships. With the same logic, we will approach Latin America after my meetings with the Foreign Ministers of Mexico, Panama, Costa Rica and the Caribbean countries in the course of the year. I left for the end the permanent members of the Security Council. You all know that our relations with the United States and France have been different in recent years. With the United States we signed the amendment and protocol to the MDCA defence agreement, we strengthened the strategic dialogue. The American presence from Souda arrived in Alexandroupolis, Thrace. When I was talking in this room about Alexandroupolis in 2019, few people believed it. Also, just the day before, on the initiative of Senator Mendenz and other Senators and MPs, Congress voted, among other things, the privileged possibility of obtaining F-35 aircraft from Greece. The signing of the Strategic Partnership Agreement with a mutual defence aid clause was followed by France. I want to make it clear that these agreements do not go against anyone but strengthen the security of our country. And we promote the presence of our allies in multilateral forms of cooperation that we are participating in the Eastern Mediterranean region. With the United Kingdom in the post-Brexit era, we have recently signed a framework for strategic cooperation. With the other permanent members of the Security Council, we have traditional relations of cooperation. The Prime Minister met a few days ago in Sochi with President Putin. As you know, I've met Sergei Lavrov too many times, we're exchanging opinions, we're filing ours on global security issues. We have cooperation relations with China. Minister Wang Yi visited us a few days ago in Athens. However, we are approaching all issues on the basis of the rules of international law. We are being helped by the most popular Greeks who remain our best ambassadors. At the same time, we are implementing a framework of coordinated actions for extroversion and economic diplomacy. Our goals will be even better served by modernising the structures and operation of the Ministry already in place, following its digital transformation that starts in the first few months of 2022. I do not want to tire you out, but I can tell you that in two years' time from today, if what has already begun to be done is finally the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will enter the 21st century. Ladies and gentlemen, our foreign policy, as described in the Ministry's new strategic plan, has been effective. The present government has signed eighteen bilateral agreements, thirty-nine multilateral agreements, and we have unprecedented support for international organisations. In the last two months Greece has been elected first in votes in the International Maritime Organisation, we have received a hundred and fifty-seven votes, two out of the first round in the UNESCO World Heritage Commission, with nineteen votes. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I want a minute and a half, Mr President, if you'll be kind. A hundred and twelve members supported our decision on the security of journalists, a hundred eleven states supported our decision on the return of cultural goods, we have ninety-five written commitments for our election to the Security Council in 2025-2026 and the elections are in 2024. The Mitsotakis government's foreign policy has made a decisive contribution to Turkey's resurgence on the ground. It has made the European Union and the West more aware of the new eastern issue, and has forced Turkey to follow developments in the region in search of interlocutors. Turkey in its efforts to normalise its relations with Europe and the West does not deal with us, is facing its illegality, the threat of war against Greece, the refusal to accede to the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea, the irresponsible and illegal Turkish memorandum, the questioning of the sovereignty of the Greek islands under the pretext of demobilisation, the revision of international treaties, the overcomings over Greek islands, the violations of national airspace and territorial waters, the operation of immigration, the divergence from the rule of law. All this has become more problems for Turkey than for Greece. As far as we are concerned, we do not accept fait accompli and are not subject to threats. And to make it clear, the tactics that I first illegally and then negotiate my illegality against a legitimate exchange have come to an end, and that also applies to Cyprus and the Cyprus issue, where Turkey must return to a United Nations solution. I think it is time for Turkey to change its course for our peoples to live safely, peacefully and for Turkey to join the new architecture of the region and become the Aegean Sea and the Eastern Mediterranean Seas of peace and cooperation. Ladies and gentlemen, to conclude, you will allow me to tell you this. I've been in this room for years now. I am well aware of how tactics are reorientated when the end of the parliamentary term is distinguished. I would ask you, however, as you have done so far - and I am particularly addressing the opposition parties above all - to face the temptation to micro-communism, as the Mitsotakis Government has done since the first day, absolutely in the matter that my Prime Minister has given me the honour to handle the country's foreign policy. I ask you to cost all political forces with a common denominator the national logic and national interest. I would ask you to maintain the coexistence in the face of revisionism. I ask for unity in the face of the real threat. I would ask you to agree with the crucifixity of 'casus belli', on the ideologies of the 'blue homeland', on the ideologies of the 'Ottoman heart'. I ask you for unity and unity, because these are the strong national shield. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, too, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u22	For a minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u23	On what issue, Mr. Ragossi?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u24	For a minute, Mr President, the Minister's epilogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u25	A clarification, Mr President, from the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative. No placement. Locations are not provided for in the Rules of Procedure. We have also said on several occasions in the Conference of Presidents no positions. The decision is unanimous.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u26	Don't worry, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u27	But if you want to clarify it, I would be happy to do so.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u28	A clarification must be given to Mr Treasury. And we wouldn't have to give it if he hadn't chosen this epilogue. The clarification, Mr Tindemans, is the very simple one. We assure you that we New Republic of Kyriakos Mitsotakis in foreign policy matters will not become. The New Republic of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, Mr. Dendias, as you know well, has not started to exist in the country since you said that you took over the prime ministership, but since becoming Chief of Officerial Opposition and electorally used a major national theme to exercise...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u29	That's a placement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u30	Please, Mr. President. To exert the most extreme, demagogic and harmful to the country...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u31	I'll tell you in your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u32	Please, Mr. President. Why are you doing this now?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u33	In your speech, you'll tell them, we've said it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u34	No, you can't do that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u35	Yesterday at the Conference of Presidents...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u36	Mr. Dendias asked us...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u37	But this thing can't be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u38	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u39	Another clarification, another placement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u40	He asked us for unity and responsibility in foreign policy. So we tell him that you will have it, Mr Tindemans, even in the pre-election period, because we are not like you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u41	It was an instigation of the Minister. I don't think you need to answer that, Minister. It was a placement. Mr Raguss will develop his views when his time comes as a parliamentary representative. Mr Giannakis Stergios has the floor from New Democracy, and I would ask Mrs Christidou to prepare for her work by SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u42	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, it is commonly accepted that the budget for 2022 was drawn up in an environment of global uncertainty, due to developments both in the field of pandemic and international developments, mainly because of the cost of energy. Clearly, with the development of the pandemic in the year that passed, the government managed to keep society up, with the unprecedented support of households and businesses, as well as the unemployed, the SMEs, our health and generally vulnerable fellow citizens, with the support that reaches for the two years 2021 - 2022, 43,3 billion euros. The 2022 budget attempts to halt the economic and social impact of pandemic, to return to normality with dynamic characteristics, and thus to increase growth for the post-communal era. Is that possible? Yes, it is. Because so far, all the horrific forecasts made by the Opposition have been disproved for both 2020 and 2021. He claimed that we would have a fall in growth and instead we had an increase. In short, the opposition was talking about new taxation and we had a reduction. Where SYRIZA imposed exterior taxation, we choose the reduced tax rates. The government took unemployment in 2019 at 18.5% and in September 2021 reached 13%. The new budget creates a strong network of citizens' protection with new tax evasions and the resurgence of the labour market, as the tax rate is reduced from 24% to 22%. It is the second time that a reduction has been made, since the 28% reduction to 24% had been preceded. The exemption from the special solidarity levy for 2022 is extended. The tax advance for enterprises is reduced from 100% to 80%. The reduction in insurance contributions by three units is extended to 2022. It is reduced for three years by 30% the amount resulting from the payment of income tax on profits for merging companies. The deduction from gross receipts from small and medium-sized enterprises of expenditure linked to the green economy, energy and digital transformation, increased by 100%. The reduced rate of VAT on transport, the tourist package, coffee and non-alcoholic products is hereby extended until June 2022. This government has not only imposed one tax, but since the first day of its term of office it has made its commitments to reduce tax burden. These options lead to a new investment climate. For example, in my prefecture, the Preveza Prefecture, after a long anhydrous period in terms of investments, new investments in the primary sector and also major tourist sectors which promote the creation of new jobs and multiplier benefits in the local economy have begun. This budget for 2022 provides for appropriations for the emergency needs of the public health pandemic, increased by EUR 40 billion compared with those for 2021. Regular social expenditure is increased in 2022. The costs of Social Security Institutions are increased by EUR 759 million, and the regular expenses of the Social Benefit and Social Solidarity Agency are increased by EUR 155 million. There is also an increase in expenditure on the main pensions from EUR 29,47 billion to EUR 29,79 and an increase in expenditure on family allowances from EUR 1,087 billion to EUR 1,102 billion, due to the broadening of the criteria. It should also be pointed out that almost 30% of public health recruitment will take place. In all of this, we have to take into account expenditure of EUR 2 billion, in the first phase, to deal with the consequences of the pandemic, which have not been specified because of the dynamic nature of the phenomenon, but also expenditure linked to emergency aid to beneficiaries of the minimum guaranteed income, the heating allowance, the power bills and others. A key factor for economic development is the take-up of the great opportunity called the Recovery Fund, which, together with the new NSRP 2021 - 2027, can ensure economic efficiency, regional development, social cohesion and justice for the country. Ladies and gentlemen, we must admit that the climate crisis is developing with geometric progress. A characteristic example is, among other things, the disasters suffered by my compatriots in my prefecture these days. The economic and social wounds will be open for a long time, but I am sure the government mechanism will intervene effectively and directly for their healing. I conclude by saying that, at the end of the day, no one expected that after a very difficult decade, our country would have become more rigid at these rates, which are higher than Europe's average. I think we are leaving behind a difficult past and looking optimisticly at the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr Colleague, and especially for keeping time. Mrs Rallia Christidou has the floor. After Mrs Christidou, Mr Yiannis Melas will be given the floor from New Democracy and then the Minister for Tourism. Mrs Christidou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u44	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, a few days ago, in the debate here in the House, the Prime Minister asked, in an angry style, for Alexis Tsipras to tell him whether he has indicated that death intact increases when they are hospitalized outside intensive care units. The Prime Minister insulting the public was allegedly seeking evidence in his drawer. As it was revealed, already in May - despite the disguise - he had in his hands the Tsiodra - Lytra report and knew not only about the intimated out of intensive care units, but also about how many people would live if the National Health System were supported as the ICUs were more, more staffed and not subordinated and red. The Chief of New Democracy knew all this. He not only did he not know them, but he also moved the finger in the opposition, claiming lies inside the Greek Parliament. Lying, for how could he not know? How could he not know? We question too much that he did not know. For not only does it not aim to strengthen the ESS - and never did it - but in the new budget it cuts more EUR 820 million out of health expenditure, it even now denies the requisition of private and military hospitals. The ideas you know of the New Democracy and the Government cost us and we are still costing human lives. Your own counsellors and scientists say so with evidence and evidence and confirms it tragically and people in hospitals every day, whether they have COVID or not. In any other European country, in any elementary democratic country the government would have resigned. As there are heavy political responsibilities here, there are deaths of our fellow citizens who could have been avoided, you leave with your political helpless people outside ICU, without the medical care they need. I heard the ministers yesterday and the other day say that if there is an emergency, not to worry about it, money will be given to the ERC. Tuesday we had a hundred and thirty dead. In the first twelve days of December we had a thousand three hundred eighteen deaths of COVID, and you tell us 'if there is an emergency'? So if the regime we are now is not an emergency, what can it be? We have already been in an emergency, ladies and gentlemen, for months now, and you have proved incapable of managing it out of reality. Mr. Vorides told us the other day that the Left is not doing well with the numbers. While the Right with a thousand three hundred deaths in twelve days gives us a numerical lesson, doesn't it? You really exceed all the limits, ladies and gentlemen. Of course, misleading and false claims do not only concern pandemic. We hear in the speeches by the government MPs that taxes are being reduced. Yes, taxes are being reduced, but who is this about? Who is concerned about the social majority? For 2022, you expect 3.5 billion more tax revenue. Where do you base this prediction? To stop tax evasion? Of course not. The above money, if collected - which small and medium-sized enterprises are currently saying is 60% lower than in November 2019 - will come from greater VAT receipts, not because the consumption will increase, but because of what the seller buys and PPC's natural gas accounts and all the rest will be much more expensive. The government, therefore, since price launch, has calculated higher revenues and celebrated it. Again, the crisis becomes an opportunity. Last year the country's GDP fell by 11% and this year the recovery of the economy is 6.9%, that is to say a part of the lost soil, which is a review product. ELSTAT has explained this. Due to the 2020 downward revision of the 2020 recession, it was revised in 2021 upwards. You are presenting this as a growth in the economy. This is your fake and failed arithmetic. Even the few and insufficient support measures that you had taken last year remove everything, removing EUR 12.3 billion from the real economy, and soon you will ask for backup and debt stripping. You're talking about restarting the economy. What reboot? Where do you live? The micro and small enterprises - which are over 90% of Greek businesses - have been talking about the worst winter since 2013, but that is none of your concern, as your government does not want to survive all but the minimum. It wants the relevant redistribution of the pie to minimal and stronger. That is why education remains at last year's budget levels, so culture along with sport in our country represents only 0.6% of the budget, so you are choosing a financial adjustment for 2022 10 billion euros, which is why you are reducing for the second year the Public Investment Programme, which is why, unlike other European countries, the minimum wage remains down. Instead of increases in the minimum wage you are giving benefits and tips to pensioners, instead of the tenth pension introduced by SYRIZA. But then it was crumbs. You're against the benefits. Or aren't you? So what are you guys? Who are you? What are you? Liberals, as Mr. Mitsotakis says in his interviews abroad? Or are you neoconservatives, as Adonis Georgiadis said in an election? He said you would follow a liberal program in the economy and a conservative program in the social state. It is a good theory, but here the reality is also flawing you in your ideological obsessions and in your election commitments. You have no ideological mark. You're not taking any ideology. You only follow the checks of the very powerful people in this country. Their ideology is one. And that's money. Your bills encourage the extra time for overtime, the further elasticisation of working hours and the deadlocks for workers, more for young people and for women. At the same time, there is a primary deficit of 14 million. A deficit of 10 billion in the current account balance. There is an increase in public debt of five more billion. The inflation rate of 5%, a decade, runs at the same time, while the country in May will cease to borrow cheaply. I'm hanging up, ladies and gentlemen. One third of the workers are paid the minimum wage, while 85% of the workers paid the minimum wage find it difficult to meet their basic needs. Not to say 31% of workers paid under the minimum wage to EUR 200. So these are our numbers. These figures are the answer to the fact that lefters are not good with numbers. We will not say about right-wing people in general, nor do we smack people. We'll say it's your political character that's responsible for all this disaster. As you do not care about the deaths in hospitals, so you do not care about poorness, unemployment, in fact. Fortunately, however, this will prove the last budget you are tabling in Parliament to save anything if the unregulated anti-reformists, the irresponsible, irresponsible, the unrepentant arrogances are saved by you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, too. Mr. Melas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the top parliamentary procedures are the budget debate. Our opposition criticises the fact that the 2022 budget is not developmental, that it is a budget out of reality, that we reduce health expenditure, that we do not give a single euro in fact, and that we are reducing the Public Investment Programme. But let's go look at them one by one. So it is enough to read the budget for 2022. It is essential to read the budget. It is therefore planned to develop the Greek economy by at least 4.5% for the following year. If we add to this the growth that existed in 2021 and formed at 6.9%, it seems that our country's economy is finally riding at the 2019 recession by 1.7%. Not only do we reduce health costs, but we increase them first. Indeed, the Left is not good at numbers, as Mr Vorides said, because the 5.2 billion in 2021 is made of 5.25 billion in 2022. So, anyone who realizes that 5,25 billion is by 820 million less than the 5.2 billion we all understand that they cannot be good at figures. With regard to the Public Investment Programme, expenditure was at 3.1% of GDP in 2019 and 2022 will be at 5.9% along with the costs of the Recovery Fund, which are translated into EUR 11 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, it is important that, while the pandemic and its international consequences are still ongoing, the Greek economy in the third quarter of 2020 recorded 13.4% growth. The biggest in the Eurozone. Unemployment fell in September to 13%, from 16.5% in September 2020. At the same time, employment has increased and more than thirty thousand new jobs have been created. Revenue for tourism is more than 10 billion euros, thus exceeding all expectations. The cost of borrowing for our country has been considerably reduced. Even at zero or negative interest rates. So these are all real facts and cannot be called into question. It wasn't with a magic wand. They happened because the New Democracy Government hears society, has a plan and implements reforms for the country's development. A project which is reflected in the real economy. We see colossal enterprises such as "PFIZER", "MICROSOFT", "AMAZON", "CISCO", investing in our country, while just a few days ago OTE announced new investments of more than EUR 3 billion in the coming years for Greece. Our country's development prospects are of interest and this year's "Ernst & Young" report on investment in Greece. So our country is for the first time in the 20th place to attract foreign direct investment. In 2018, under the Government SYRIZA, we were in the thirty-fifth place to attract investments and in 2019 in the 20th. In 2020 we attracted thirty-nine foreign direct investment, compared with twenty-two in 2019 and eleven that was about the average for the period 2000- 2019. In the same report it is also noted that Greece is for the first time in the eighth place among the most attractive destinations for investment in Europe. But what does that mean? Our country, with a government of the New Democracy and the Kyriakos Mitsotakis, is transformed into a consistently attractive investment destination. Investments in new technologies, innovation, infrastructure, green economy change our country's nature and productive model. Such an important investment is the State of Innovation in the old building of "WHEN" in Piraeus. The benefits for the city of Piraeus and as a whole for the country will be multiple. An important infrastructure project for my city, for Piraeus, is the translocation of the courts, which will take place in a new building. It is a project which, as our rapporteur, Mr Rusopoulos, said, has joined the Recovery Fund. Ladies and gentlemen, you will also allow me to focus on lowering taxation, which was and remains our strategic choice. I have heard my colleague say that taxes are being reduced, but revenue is being increased and how this is being done. Because you're really not good at numbers, I'll tell you again. It's because there's growth in the country. For as much as possible, and the tax rates are reduced, the revenues are increased. And that is what is needed to have a healthy economy for our country. So this is our ideological difference. We're reducing taxes. You exaggerated the middle class. We have been applying it since the first day of our governance and we will continue to apply it in 2022. Indicatively, therefore, some measures that will apply to 2022 are the reduction of income tax for legal persons from 24% to 22%, the exemption from the special solidarity levy for private sector workers, the reduction of 3% of private sector contributions. It is the discount on the costs relating to the green economy, energy and digitalisation, which is the abolition of the tax on parental benefits of up to EUR 800,000, which you voted against. It is the return of the excise oil tax to young farmers and farmers members of cooperative formations. To close, ladies and gentlemen, we are not celebrating. We haven't solved all the problems that pandemic caused us, but we're still working. The increase in energy prices is another consequence of pandemic. The Prime Minister at the PDH had originally announced measures of 200,000,000 euros. Because we are faced with a dynamic situation, there has also been a new expansion of the measures to EUR 500,000 000 and with the latest communications from the relevant ministries, support amounts to EUR 620,000 000 000. It has already been announced that tomorrow the Prime Minister will make further announcements in his speech on the budget. We have shown, therefore, that we support households, we support workers, we support businesses. More than 43,000,000 euros were given to deal with the consequences of the pandemic. So against the populism of counterpopulation and destruction that he wants to present, we respond with a programme and hard work. We continue on the path of growth and progress. So, with the 2022 budget, we are increasing the available income of our citizens and supporting our most vulnerable fellow citizens. We make use of all available resources from the Recovery Fund and the ESRB, we support entrepreneurship, we consistently create new jobs, we turn our country into a modern-day digital and state-friendly state. We improve the investment environment, we fight for an extrovert and internationally competitive Greek economy, we make Greece stronger with defence agreements with France and the United States of America. For all this, ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to vote on the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Minister for Tourism now has the floor, Mr. Vassilis Kikilis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say at the outset that this debate is taking place after two years of a global health crisis, due, of course, to COVID 19, and in fear of the fact that it can bring about a third consecutive year or another mutation of the new virus. All the countries, like Greece, constantly adapt and adapt their policies, depending on the development of the pandemic, of which - badly lies - no one had a budget for the long term and no one had a budget for its effects in all areas. First and foremost, to people’s health as the simplest social activity that was disturbed by the pandemic. Tourism was one of the first social activities that have been suspended worldwide, with what this implies. But Greece and 2020 and much more in 2021 showed a remarkable resistance as a favourite destination for foreign visitors, and we must not go beyond this without analyzing it. The travel traffic by September increased by more than 90% compared to 2020. Travel receipts of 140%, while the travel balance has reached a surplus of EUR 8,033,000, i.e. EUR 5,000,000, 000 euros more than the corresponding 2020 surplus, and when the year is closed we will see that we have exceeded a lot of EUR 10,000,000,000. I would remind you that the original forecasts were talking about revenues in the range of EUR 5,000,000 to EUR 6,000,000. The average per capita expenditure per visitor this year increased by over 20%, each spending over 600 euros. Quantitative indicators all of these, which with two tangible and clear quality gifts, prove that new jobs have been created for Greek citizens and their income has increased for all these professions that are directly or indirectly linked to the tourist product. Ladies and gentlemen, our goal is in 2022 - well to go to a total relaunch of Greek tourism. That is why today's campaign for winter tourism has been running abroad. The campaign will be followed for domestic tourism and then for city break, starting from Athens and Thessaloniki. The summer season will begin in 2022 since March, for all destinations it is possible, mainly because of the climate, to support it. And with great optimism in our contacts with all airlines, tour operators, cruise companies we see an increase in the availability of flights, routes and destinations. Why do foreign visitors prefer us? The first factor is vaccination. Secondly, the conviction that they are coming to a safe European country. Third factor, the different, distinct, unique tourist experience offered by Greece. We are talking about hundreds of small tourist paradises, scattered on dozens of islands, hundreds of coastal areas, small villages, taverns family units, preserved settlements, luxurious five units and exceptionally gourmet restaurants, respecting all the above health protocols. All of these created an extremely attractive grid, built on the human measure, not on massage and not on personal service. So, ladies and gentlemen, the huge advantage of the hundreds of different destinations in Greece has emerged, but for quite a different reason than before the pandemic. The small, friendly, picturesque or luxurious also became safe for those who reasonably seek conditions as controlled as possible. And this needs to be realised and incorporated into our wider strategic planning for the further development of Greek tourism, as we have already incorporated the promotion and promotion of less well-known destinations, the expansion of the tourist season, Thessaloniki as home port and hub and the Digital Nomads project and, above all, the great goal and main strategy of the Government and Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, sustainability and respect for the environment, called "Green and Blue Tourism". Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress from this step forward that in Greece the chain of people who support and create the tourist product, the brand name Greece, which is fifth in the world, starts from the farmer in the field and reaches the air traffic controller at the airport, from mom's pie to the family tavern to the extension of the 5G in the country. Tourism is not a matter of a few, it is a matter of many. It is a difficult, complex, but extremely dynamic, industry of millions of Greeks converging and creating a leading global product. And all these, many, are the backbone of the tourist economy and I would also tell you about the Greek economy as a whole. Therefore, behind the figures in growth rates, there are the people who create it, hard workers, self-employed, small and medium-sized enterprises, which have for ten years been - let us be honest - tested hard by the economic crisis, the arrogant taxes, the inability to access banking. Many have experienced unemployment, most have seen a decline in income and all have fought them to survive the crisis. The global health crisis, therefore, found our society with reduced resistance, after so many years of pressure, shaken everyone's optimism for tomorrow, created new uncertainties. We must respond to these uncertainties with clear and decisive policies, which will have a single objective, the restoration of the power of the so-called'medium-class', of the many, who over time have created and created real wealth and value at their place, with their work, their businesses, their products, their studies and skills, their work and their honesty. We must invest in them to support them, but also in creating a state with strong economic bases. The Recovery and Resilience Mechanism, the well-known RRF, with an investment, reformist mark, has a pillar of sustainable and inclusive recovery, clearly recognising the problem of ever increasing economic inequality, both between countries and within our societies. The approved Greek recovery plan, with resources of more than 30 billion, represents a unique opportunity for substantial transformation and strong growth in our economy over the next five years, an opportunity which, if properly exploited and implemented, without delay and with a deep sense of responsibility towards the real beneficiaries, namely the Greek citizens, we will be able to say that as a political order and as a organised state, we have finally deserved the confidence of this world which has been hard to test for years. It is obvious and self-proof that I support with all my powers the budget that has been submitted to Parliament, and I urge everyone to vote and support what is a development, reforming tool that can and must go ahead of the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Minister, for keeping time. Mr. Emmanuel Thrafaniotis from SYRIZA has the floor and then Mr. Ioannis Kefaliannis from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Minister of Tourism, I will agree with you that tourism is a matter for everyone. It is a matter of workers, primarily, as well as a matter of the students of the ATT, whom you have consciously deceived and refused to accept from them for more than a month, while they are in captivity. The budget is a top parliamentary procedure, because it reflects each government's intentions for economic policy next year. The budget we are discussing today is based on the prediction that we will have ended with the coronary, but also the accuracy, and so the majority rapporteur described an ideal budget, which, if he lived today, would exclaim with his well-known line of the time "happy". Our rapporteur, Efi Ahtzioglu, documentedly described the harsh reality experienced by the majority of citizens in the area of work, health and the explosive price rise. This reality has unfortunately come to confirm the sad record of deaths in one day with a hundred and thirty dead, the 'Omicon' mutation, which is worrying and the prediction of scientists to increase cases and victims if no measures are taken. Most importantly, however, it is the publication of the study by Mr. Tsiodras - Lytra for the death of Mr. Tsiodras, a study confirming the self-evident: the armour of the ESS is a priority for the protection of public health and not just for the coronary. It also points out that off-site hospitality has an increased mortality rate of 87% and that 38.5% could have been saved if it had been hospitalized at the ICU and if the HSH had been shielded, so severely exposing the Prime Minister, as he revealed that while he knew, on the basis of Mr. Lytra's public statements, he lied from this one to the Greek people that there is no study. This incredible view and this huge lie Mr Mitsotakis said so to explain and support his refusal to strengthen the ESS in the academy, so that we do not have "multiple flaws in the ESS", as Mr Scorts said, expressing the Prime Minister's view. With this position and this policy we have one of the highest mortality rates in Europe and we have reached twenty thousand dead. "We have signs?", he was asking from this Step here. And the Prime Minister himself replied: "No, I don't. Do you have one? Bring her in.’ Now that we have no indication, but proof, do you have anything to say to the Greek people? You're just trying to despise the study, despising scientists and the scientific community itself. The situation in the public health system is unacceptably hopeless. I will submit to the minutes the announcement of the workers at the Central Hospital of Lassithi, Agios Nikolaos, with the problems they face, highlighting characteristics: "Due to lack of personnel, cardiology was merged with the Pathological Clinic, newspapers at the Emergency Departments are with only one doctor for several days, with the basic specialties of the cardiologist, anestheticologist, orthopaedics not to inspect, with exhaustive hours for the medical and nursing staff, at risk of committing errors, shortcomings and risks", while the President of the Lasithi Medical Association personally referred to Mr. Plevri but also the Director of Intensive Treatment in "St. Nicholas". The majority speakers and the ministers from this party are consciously trying to distort reality. Mr. Hatzidakis stressed in his speech the other day: “You delivered us unemployment of 17% in 2019.” But where did SYRIZA find her and hand her over to 17%? Did he come down? That's just a shitty thing to do. He doesn't want to remember, obviously. Like he's suddenly suffered amnesia. SYRIZA received it from you in 2015 at 27.9% and downloaded it to 17% in very difficult circumstances. Because you want to forget that you bankrupt the country. You have a courage to say, you have a despair to say, when the Prime Minister from here at the Step in addressing Alexis Tsipras said: "You, Mr. Tsipras, have put us in the memoirs." Did you really ask yourself, ladies and gentlemen, why did we go into the memorials and why did we go bankrupt? We've entered the memos for a basic reason. ‘The State from 2001 to 2009 spent its total of 827 billion and received 695 billion. He went in 132 billion. In order to have a clear picture, it is fifty HISBIA." Who says that? They are said by the Minister, Mr. Theodoros Skylakakis, in April 2015 at the eviaportal. His interview is published. Then, of course, it had come out of the mantle. Mr Mitsotakis therefore has two options: either apologise to Alexis Tsipras, if he has such a sensitivity, or absolve Mr. Psulakakis, because he is undone. The budget we are debating today is based on the assumption that we are going to end with the pandemic at the beginning of 2022. That is why public health expenditure is being cut by 850 million. On the basis of this provision, there are also no support and protection measures which are actually on the rise. The global crisis, combined with transport problems due to the pandemic, caused an explosive increase in electricity production, heating, diesel, an increase in consumer prices and agricultural production. ‘We double the heating allowance’. Yes, sir. How much has the heating oil been in last year, ladies and gentlemen? To go to Lassithi Plateau, one of the coldest inhabited areas in the country, SYRIZA joined the subsidised areas. The heating oil last year had 80 minutes. This year it has reached 1.23 euros. The difference is 43 minutes. A household with five thousand litres of consumption - because that's how much it gets up there - and double the subsidy, will get 360 euros out of 180. It will be less than 1,400 euros. We are talking about an area with a population of the majority of the elderly. That is the increase in diesel fuel, especially for farmers, who in a letter, say to them: 'This year', the representatives of agricultural associations of Crete, 'we are faced with a great increase in production costs of 40% due to an appreciation of energy, supplies', etc. I'll testify to the Minutes. At the same time TWO Ierapetra, unable to respond to the great growths in current that have already occurred, saw an increase in irrigation water price from 18 to 25 minutes, an increase of 40%. So far, from this water, dynamic crops of Ierapetra have been irrigated, with enormous competition on the international markets. You can understand the consequences for the production of this outrageous inertia to take action. For the current, it's even worse. The adjustment clause affects businesses and households. Same for food. The bread over 20%. You're saying you don't have any proposals. We respond: Reduce excise duty on fuel and VAT on primary goods as long as the crisis lasts. Increase the minimum wage, as most European countries have done. I shall conclude, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance with what Mr Vorides said the day before yesterday with the 'ITIS ANTIME' programme. On SYRIZA 1.3 billion in the "PHILDIMO" programme, about 3 has the "ITISM" programme. The question is how much of these 3 billion are being implemented today. None. A total of EUR 20 million was approved and financed in Lasithi. These projects are being implemented today and I want to put this picture out in the Minutes here, in the 2020 - 2023 development programme. Projects implemented and funded by SYRIZA. Efforts to cancel SYRIZA's work, like these ones here, and finish with the Left fall into void. The moral advantage of the Left is too high and you don't get it. Alexis Tsipras proved it by deleting Panagiotis Kourublis, who was right to protest, but not in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u51	The floor will be taken by Mr. Yiannis Kefaloyannis from New Democracy and then by Mr. Konstantinopoulos from the Change Movement. Here, Mr. Kefaliannis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u52	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the budget is always a very good opportunity to discuss the real situation of the economy and society, but not in general and indefinitely, but in concrete, real data. Data that cannot be distorted, altered and much more to change according to party identity, desires and sometimes with godly desires of each one of us. The first is, therefore, the uncertainty regime caused by the global health crisis, which imposes on everyone without exception on our predictions, responsibility for our choices and awareness of their consequences. The Chief of Officerial Response, addressed to the Group's Parliamentary Group, spoke of a budget of virtual reality. For a budget which he considers that pandemic has passed and that accuracy due to international energy appreciations has come to stay. And indeed, ladies and gentlemen of Officerial Representation, the pandemic is in full progress. We do not know - and I think no one can know - how it will develop internationally. But we know very well what to do as a society and thankfully we have both scientific tools and policies, to limit its impact, particularly on human lives and, secondly, on the economy. Whether he likes or does not like Civicism, unlike them, the government has a coherent plan to deal with pandemic and its consequences, both in health and in the economy. Safe opening to economic activities, travel, education, free vaccination programme, compulsory vaccination in targeted populations and professional groups, sanctions for those who deliberately disperse false news, undermining public health, social cohesion and economic recovery. So what was SYRIZA's attitude to all these targeted measures? A horizontal 'no' at all. Not in strict measures and fines for fake vaccination certificates, not in the mandatoryity of vaccination, health and citizens over 60 years of age, not even in the imposition of sanctions on parents who refuse to send their children to schools, depriving them of the right to education. It claims that the government has failed to convince its citizens and, ladies and gentlemen, to pay attention to a political hypocrisy. The same people who are asking for more persuasion are those who held a committee of inquiry to see whether or not the country's information campaign was carried out in relation to the coronary, pandemic and vaccination. And of course, only a reminder can the proposal for supposedly optional compulsoryity. Maybe that reminds us of creative ambiguity. Optional compulsoryity, in other words, without sanctions, would make sense in a society that all its members and, above all, Dedicated Opposition are aware of the consequences of their choices in society as a whole. To say this quite simply: it presupposes individual responsibility for which SYRIZA alone in hearing is allergy. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the second time that we have been discussing a pandemic budget which does not depend solely on the government's management capacity that proposes it. In addition, for management capacity, this government has given clear examples of writing to address the many serious unexpected crises it has faced, to broaden and strengthen the country's international alliances, and to strengthen the face of the economy which has been severely affected in the last decade. Today we have a significant increase in GDP of 9.3% in the first six months of 2021, which is due much more to the investments that have come to the country than to state aid. We have a higher recovery than the European average and at the same time fewer health losses, unlike all the countries of the European South, which still have a negative sign in terms of relocating their economies. Greece, in contrast to these, has overshadowed the pandemic recession, and even since we will add 1.2% to the Gross Domestic Product we had before the release of the pandemic, and at the same time we will have added two thousand new jobs. So this is the government's management capacity, which you, ladies and gentlemen of Officerial Response are constantly changing. But I can agree on something with you. The successful implementation of this budget, which promotes the exit from the pandemic crisis, also requires more than a management capacity. It requires political responsibility from everyone, and unfortunately you do not have this political responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u53	Thank you too, Mr Kefaliannis, for keeping time. Mr. Constantinople is not here. Mrs. Anna Karamanlis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by thanking the health staff from the Step of the House for the day-to-day difficult struggle that they give to ICUs and clinics for the treatment and rescue of fellow humans who suffer from the coronary, but also for all the professionals who from their position shield our country from pandemic. In the face of this national effort is the Civic Opposition. I was present yesterday in plenary, in the crescendo of populism of Mr Kurubli, who called us "killers" and watched the facts until it was deleted. However, Mr Tsipras's alter ego also uses the same designations on social media, and I ask him: would the President of the Officer's Response be able to delete or use two measures and two weights for the same behaviour? Unless Mr. Kourublis was easily deleted because he is considered harmless, while Mr. Polakis is not touched. I read, among other things, on 29 November: “You are murderers! Scream of Maximus, come and tell us about “zero exaggerated mortality”!!''.'. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Anna Karamanlis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] You cannot stand up to the height we would expect as a Civic Opposition. You have no program, you have no proposals, you are populists, your word is splitting, close the eye to the anti-invasives to produce micropolitical benefits. Ladies and gentlemen, following the challenges we are coming to manage - and I am referring both to the health crisis, because of the pandemic and the global energy crisis - the government is tabling the 2022 budget, characterizing the reduction of tax burdens, the creation of conditions for attracting investment and, ultimately, the foundation of social justice. What does our work characterize for the last two and a half years? Bold reforms in administration, education, the entrepreneurial environment, digitisation of processes, linking education to the labour market, tax relief, simplification of administrative procedures. The budget of 2022 contains no austerity measures. Increased revenue will not come from the increase in tax burdens, but from the strengthening of the economy, from the policies to reduce tax burden on households and businesses, and from the stimulation of businesses and households. Furthermore, we will not forget that in the years that SYRIZA ruled, twenty-nine new taxes were imposed, it proceeded with twenty reductions in pensions, increases in contributions. And we will not forget those who were in the Senate Hall at that time, the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Juliarakis, saying that it was a conscious choice to overtax the middle class and the free professionals. You, cut off for the middle and the poor, when you abolished the CSCE. We have a different view of things. We believe that growth is based on tax relief, on the creation of a favourable investment climate, on the creation of conditions for an upward trend in the economy. As Chairman of the Special Standing Committee on Equality, Youth and Human Rights, I would like to point out that the gender equality sector will also be strengthened for the year 2022, with the increase in funds from the NRP and the influx of the Recovery Fund. Enhance the implementation of actions and policies strengthening working mothers, facilitate the harmonisation of family and working life, aim to prevent and tackle violence against women, in accordance with the Istanbul Convention. In this context, it is also envisaged to implement actions aimed at upgrading the functioning of social services, improving and strengthening the benefits and actions to address poverty and social exclusion, improving the quality of life and promoting the independent living of disabled persons, developing a programme to upgrade the quality of services provided to nursery and child-care stations - a 'CYPOL' programme - to take measures against child abuse. Services are also being established, such as Persons Persons with Disabilities and the Disabled Card. A professional assumption programme is being implemented for children with disabilities above 67%. It promotes the destabilisation of vulnerable adolescents, through the creation of semi-autonomous living quarters, and develops an early intervention programme for children with disabilities of up to six years, actions for social protection of a total budget from the Recovery Fund of EUR 480 million. Furthermore, there is provision for payment by the OPCW of disability, family and child allowances, housing, social exclusion prevention and social protection. I note this in order to highlight our political choices in the area of social solidarity, because, ladies and gentlemen of the Opposition, with the development of support services for vulnerable groups, we are responding to any ideological crises and theoretical constructions. It should be noted that Greece is one of the first countries to incorporate the Council of the European Union into its law, which establishes the European guarantee for children. The aim of the recommendation is to prevent and combat poverty and social exclusion of children and to protect their rights. This treaty proves for the Government that supporting all children is a capital option. These are, ladies and gentlemen, actions and policies with a social dimension aimed at a society of respect for the weak and accepting diversity. The 2022 budget marks the country's orientation on a dynamic developmental path. With the support of vulnerable groups, bold reforms in all areas, with the strengthening of healthy entrepreneurship, the enlargement and support of social solidarity, we create a competitive, strong and empower our democracy, without discrimination and inclusiveness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mrs Karamanlis, and respect for the time. The next speaker is Mr Marios Katsis from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I really do not know whether the virtual reality presented by the Ministers of Government and the Members of the New Democracy who have so far spoken is the result of an attempt to extremize the very cruel reality, everyday reality or whether the distance that separates you from what the citizens live in our country is so great that you do believe it. You bring us a budget here which is based on the basic principle that 2022 will be a year that will not be affected by the pandemic and that next year society and the economy will not continue to suffer from the generalised wave of precision. After almost two years of health crisis, with twenty thousand dead and seeing how inflation is evolving, such an approach is not only short-sighted and irresponsible, but also criminal. Where does it turn out that in 2022 the pandemic will be over? But, obviously, you are cutting off 820 million from the Ministry of Health's budget in relation to 2021, and from the fact that you are not strengthening the National Health System, while Mr Mitsotakis knows personally very well, as the Tsiodra - Lytra report shows, that 38.5% of our deaths, about eight thousand fellow citizens, would have been avoided if the National Health System had been adequately shielded and that death outside intensive care units was increased by 87%, not the lies he was saying here on the Step of the House on 1 December. And while the Prime Minister is first-hand aware of this - because he knows Mr.Mitsotakis - in his 2022 budget he made sure to eliminate the virus, so that you don't have to make money for health. How is it possible, in fact, with a hundred and thirty dead just the other day? What will you do if the pandemic continues and in 2022? Are you going to tell us you don't have any signs? That the people who are being evacuated into the ICU or outside the ICU are the same thing, or that they are more at risk within the ICU, as Mr Mitsotakis said without shame, and today instead of apologizing? Anyone else in his place would have resigned, if he said such a disgusting lie, that it is the same in and out of the ICU. And it is not possible for the Government's representative to cover and say that he does not know or know Mr. Mitsotakis. That is unacceptable! It's an unacceptable answer that he didn't know. And if he hadn't known, then he really has renounced his responsibility as Prime Minister, as government, to do everything possible to save as many of our fellow citizens as possible. He's given up his obligation and only holds the rights. Let me also say the second part, the unfounded case you're actually having. How does it look within the budget that you speculate that accuracy will not be a problem in 2022? From the fact that there is absolutely no protection in fact. Not at all! Unless, of course, you know that society and the economy will continue to suffer from price increases, but you deliberately do not take any initiative, leaving them helpless both to suffer self-regulation. It's very likely that, and I'm not excluding that. Inflation reached 4.8% in November. That's a decade's record. Households see prices in livelihoods constantly rising. Every month the supermarket basket becomes more expensive. The electricity bills, despite what unbelievably lies we heard at the Thessaloniki Fair by the Prime Minister, are not simply inflamed, but unbearable. In Greece we have the most expensive megawatt in Europe. Look at the gas prices, the heating oil, the fuels. Everything's on the line, but the wages are still standing. Do you know what that means? The purchasing power of the citizens is falling and will continue to fall. And all that hurts not only poor households. They hit hard and the middle class, which you had made your flag electionly. The accuracy, in fact, doesn't stop there. Raw materials, supplies, energy costs have kneeled small, medium and large businesses, free professionals, farmers. The country's production fabric experiences an unprecedented increase in operating costs and production costs. For these reasons, I would have expected to see a government bring about a reduction in excise duty on fuel proposed by SYRIZA in an amendment and you did not vote on it. I would suggest that you bring brave measures to reduce the electricity bill, bring the minimum wage to EUR 800, which we still insist and do not legislate. You should also continue to pay annually the thirteenth pension, as legislationd by SYRIZA. I would also expect a government to tighten controls on the phenomena of shame and the activation of the Competition Committee so that it can finally play its part. I would, of course, expect them from a serious government, a worthy government, not from the government parody of Mr Mitsotakis. I would like to say two things about the digital policy area as Digital Policy Head. I would like to refer to a number of themes mentioned by Minister Pierracakis, who spoke about leaps to the digital transition and how the country managed to cover a long distance that separated it from other countries. Unfortunately, there are measurable results for the country and society, and they do not match the government record, ladies and gentlemen. On 12 November - not even a month past - the Digital Economy and Society Index was published, DESI, for 2021 and Greece is third from the end, twenty-fifths in twenty-seven in the European Union in the general indicator, exceeding only Bulgaria and Romania. But also in the individual indicators, the benchmarks - the connectivity, the digital public services - are in the last and lasting position respectively. And in the rest of the individual indicators - human capital, computer engineering or the integration of new technologies - it is well below the average. Can all enterprises, for example, use the online invoice mission? Has connectivity reached the most remote village? Do all students have access to the internet? Do they have the ability to use a tablet or laptop? The older ones, when bank branches are being abolished in remote areas, have digital skills so that they can make electronic banking? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Indicative of the situation is that the indicator for e-government users also declined marginally over the previous years. All of this does not show a digital leap unless we consider the SMS to be going out of the house during the hardest lockdown in Europe that you have imposed on us. What did the Minister comment on the fact that we have the most expensive and slowest internet in Europe? He said the regulation of the markets was the work of the independent authorities. We also have the most expensive gas and expensive power megawatts, but we also have the most expensive and slower internet in Europe. In everything, we're always the first in the negative realms. Does the government still have any responsibility for the distortions, for market cartels, even if they prevent all citizens from being involved in the services of the new era? He told us here some nice words, such as that we need a "cutaneous" of the network, because we still have copper. That's what Mr. Pierracakis should have said to himself. Why has the Ultrafast Broadman project not been implemented for two years, which has been auctioned by the Government of SYRIZA? We are talking about a project of 800 million, with the credit of the Commission from Westager, which is PPP for optical fibre investments and with which we would have increased speed and cost reductions. Why hasn't he done it for two and a half years now? What is the reason, while it was auctioned and is now advertised by the Recovery Fund and making announcements, calling on mobile operators, supposedly making the network 'cut-off'? What has he done with the digital identities that have been abolished by New Democracy's government? Mr. Theodorikos, you have a responsibility to answer. It is the Community's main objective in digital transformation and in the objectives of the digital transition index by 2030 to have digital identities. What are you gonna do? Will you be able to pull out your digital identities until you leave the government? For us, in the budget, another spirit, with the design of new infrastructure, with the use of the recovery fund, where resources will not only be directed to large and few strong groups, but to domestic small, very small and small and innovative enterprises, with a focus on real digital skills and not on the'scole' type, which they have done to lawyers and engineers, with actions for the digital transformation of businesses and the retail trade, with synergy between chambers and not with vague announcements, with the upgrading of cybersecurity systems and strong technical and legal security barriers to the protection of citizens' personal data and not by suspicious and secret contracts of the type PALANTIR. For us, the digital transition must not leave anyone behind. It must serve society and the economy, acting on the basis of the removal of inequalities, the deepening of democracy, justice and equality. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] As far as you are concerned, it seems to me from your course and from what is reflected in the budget, these are not priorities. I would also like to make a final comment. This budget is out of reality. It cannot solve the problems that society and the economy face, which are even intensified by the foreign and ideological choices for citizens. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Unfortunately, at this difficult time for the country, we have the misfortune to govern us with an incompetent government, a dangerous Prime Minister, and we pay that very much. The only solution is to become a past as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u57	Mr. Katsy, you benefited from the shift shift and I didn't see the clock. The Member of the New Republic, Mr. Spanakis, is called in Stepma. Then Mr Michaelides and Mr Ljutas are followed and a Minister will then be involved. Here, Mr Spankee, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in a few hours' time our Parliament will be called upon to vote on the budget for 2022, a budget that is modern, because we have new data, such as the budget for performance. It will vote for a budget realistic, since its forecasts on many points are conservative, Mr Minister, for example, in terms of public consumption. Of course, we will be voting on a budget that is basically in the direction of strengthening employment. Ladies and gentlemen, we all have to record and show the ten important keys to this budget, and of course also go to political confrontation, but with concrete figures on specific figures, on specific figures. I would just like to speak here just to be understood by the Greek people who are watching us. So what are the ten keys to this budget? Firstly, it is central to boosting employment and provides for increasing it by 2.6%, i.e. thousands of new jobs, mainly a wage earner at 83.3%. It gives a great deal of perspective to the new generation. Moreover, the rate of unemployment is falling by 1.5% and the relative index is being formed at 12.2%. The second key is that this budget incorporates the reduction of taxes and social security contributions, that is, it embodies the main axis of our economic policy, our tax policy. And yes, we need to take other steps to combat tax evasion, brave steps and, if you like, open up a continuous dialogue to combat tax evasion and see the details. But the opposition must not ignore the efforts of this government, for example, the stimulus for evidence, so that we can get a deduction from taxable income. However, we must not leave some specific data behind. See, for example, the business turnover in 2021 formed at 215, 41 billion and surpassed the 2019 turnover. That means something, it means the market shows confidence in the New Democracy Government. The third key to this budget is the increase in consumption of 3%, from two things, from the use of accumulated savings and from the increase in employment. Fourth key. It contains the projects for the development of the Recovery and Resilience Fund, which will exceed 32 billion and will bring more than eighty thousand new jobs in the coming years and, be careful, with investments, with a high multiplier effect. Fifth key. Successful public debt, ladies and gentlemen. Public debt is the least one could achieve. And this is a success in this health - economic crisis for this government. The sixth key to this budget is investment, public investment and private investment. It is easy to see that over 11 billion euros will be spent, representing 5.9% of GDP, while at the same time implementing the NRP 2014- 2020, with high absorption rates. Seventh key. The increase in the social budget funds, i.e. the Social Security Institutions, the Insurance Funds, the OAED, the EEAS, the OPECA, the NAT, which are improved, is increased by EUR 568 million. Eighth key. The continuation of the support of hospitals and primary health care and the expenditure forecasts for our hospitals amount to 3.4 billion compared to the 3.27 billion estimated to reach '21. And finally stop lying to the channels and social media that we're reducing health expenditure. Look at the substance. And the essence is that regular costs are increasing for health. Ninth key. The increase in available income, after the conditions have been created by the reduction in taxes and levies. This increase, combined with the reduction of indirect taxation, leads to an improvement in the climate on the market. This budget incorporates both the reduction of direct and indirect taxes, because this government brings down VAT and we will continue this policy, because it is our main commitment to the Greek people. And since we are talking about buying, it is worth mentioning the tenth key to this budget, which is increasing exports of services by 21% - and I invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to see this size compared to previous years - and of course exports of goods and services by 11.1%. So these are the ten keys to this budget in a world economy with serious risks due to the protracted health crisis. We must not, however, say the same, but we must not degrade and underestimate the appropriate measures of this government, the government that has restored credibility to the Greek economy, which has restored the climate of confidence that was worthy of our economy and our country, which is trying to cope with the wave of dishonesty, since in Greece we have an imported inflation. It is not demand inflation, it is supply inflation that we have and we need to make the dialogue between us here, to be constructive and essential. It is cost inflation, mainly from raw materials. And yes, ladies and gentlemen, we will face this temporary fuel and energy crisis. After all, we must speak responsibly and seriously in this Chamber. In a few hours' time, ladies and gentlemen, we have to vote on a budget which brings growth rates of 4.5%, with two main components. Firstly, we are recovering our lost national product over recent years and, secondly, we are exceeding 2019 GDP by 1.7%. This budget is brought by the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis to vote with keys basically for the future of each new generation household. And, of course, all this is part of a political success in all areas for Greece that we want for tomorrow, with a view to shaping our small country into a great challenge for investment. And already the signs of stability and growth have begun to appear. Mr President, some of the opposition should not be disturbed because they are wrong, because Greece all wants to do well for the future of our children. We all want Greece a pillar of stability and development for the wider region. That is why we all have to vote in favour of this realistic, real, real, real budget for the year 2022. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u59	The speaker of SYRIZA, Andreas Michaelides, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr President. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that it is reasonable to point out three pillars, three main issues which define the political and economic environment of today: firstly, the ongoing pandemic; secondly, the increase in inflation; and thirdly, the gradual passage to the post-COVID era and the activation of the Recovery Fund. At the same time these issues are the measure to assess the budget for 2022 on its central position. With regard to pandemic, your answer to the dramatic deterioration of the situation since the beginning of the year is the reduction of the Ministry of Health's regular budget by 820 million. Instead of strengthening a system that really faces an unprecedented threat to our time and chronic system pathogens, you are struggling with neoliberal ideals, which at least as far as the necessity of the ICMs is concerned, for example, have received a resounding slap from the publication of the Tsiodra - Lytra study. And since many colleagues have tried here to degrade its importance and to mention the fact that the political leadership and the Prime Minister were aware of it, I would like to remind Mr Lytras, whom he made public on 17-1-21, saying: 'This study has been immediately and repeatedly notified to those taking decisions at the highest level'. In fact, you are applying the same practice as the pandemic, or you are being buffaloed or pretending to be transient, and so you are trying to justify your inactivity. As far as the Recovery Fund is concerned, your expectations about 3.2 billion in 1922 are at least great. So all three of the modern challenges that I mentioned in the budget give the wrong answers. It is not just that the fulfilment of your over-estimating expectations is at risk of blowing the budget to 'air'. It is that the very content of the three answers does not incorporate the corresponding demands of the social majority, requests for a public health system that will provide care to everyone. Allow me here to mention a briefing I had yesterday, ladies and gentlemen, that in a patient with a serious neurosurgery problem from one of the Ionian Islands for the third time his surgery was postponed. And indeed, with the last time he was already in the process of entering the surgery, he went out because of a lack of a meth bed and returned to his island. So the demands, as I have said, are enough to protect, for example, from the wave of precision that disproportionately affects the large, medium-sized layers. And a growth that will be fair and inclusive. I am ending here my general references and points to focus more on the budget of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy. With regard to the ordinary budget, its level remains substantially at the levels of 2021. Of the 'crowds' that the government expects to open from the Recovery Fund, not a euro - nor a euro! - it is not channelled to the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy. However, the main problems of'regulater' essentially of your political choices relate to the allocation of funds under the Public Investment Programme, although there is a small increase of 35 million. The first problem concerns the appropriations for barren lines. There are only 52 million, 20 million less in relation to last year's expenditure, dramatically less than your programme of announcements. The simple question is how this reduction, almost 30%, is explained, and how it will affect small island societies and economies. The second problem concerns the equivalent of transport and other island policies. The envelope is exactly the same as last year, 23.8 million. A first partial comment concerns our great concern about the equivalent of transport. The Secretary-General of the Ministry recently spoke of budgetary difficulties that shift payments for June - September in mid-January 2022. What difficulties is it talking about? Why should we trust you to support the measure when the delays become the rule and the budget of the measure, namely the subsidy for the transport of passengers and goods, remains stable and, indeed, at a time when inflation rises? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will conclude in a minute, Mr President. The second partial comment concerns the well-known integrated maritime policy programmes, the 'NEARTHOS' programme, the Maritime and Blue Economy Fund and others, which the Minister for Maritime Affairs has announced, without any reference to the budget, no indication of the amount with which they will be financed. We need more seriousness and transparency, if you do not want to be accused of the total absence of an island policy, which also characterises the entire state budget. We are therefore entitled to conclude that the upgrading of ports, the strengthening of maritime links, the development of policies for the islands for you has a second or perhaps third series on your priorities and options.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u61	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u62	It goes without saying that we cannot vote for a budget which ignores modern popular demands and does not take care of the groups and regions which are the islands, which are obviously the most vulnerable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u63	Mr Athanasios Litas from New Democracy is called to Stepma and immediately after the speech the Deputy Minister, Mr. Theodoros Skeylakakis, will be called for 15 minutes. Mr. Liuta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u64	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the 2022 budget is a realistic, social solidarity budget and a clear development budget. This optimism is not a theoretical and undetermined concept. On the contrary, it is a real perception and is truly and calmly shaped by following the course of our economy. The growth rate for 2021 is significantly upwards, from 3.6% in the medium-term financial strategy framework 2022-2025 and from 6.1% in the preliminary draft budget now reach 6.9%. For 2022 growth is projected for 4.5%. This data shows that through our policy our homeland has managed to cope with the unprecedented economic situation that pandemic has brought to our country. Since the beginning of the pandemic, the goals were to save human life and then save the Greek economy. Our large public health expenditure has demonstrated and demonstrated our objective of protecting human life and the armoring of the National Health System. At the same time, the financial support of households and businesses for the years 2020 to 2022 amounts to EUR 43.3 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, the overall financial support for households and businesses was aimed at supporting the Greek society and the economy and strengthening a development perspective, this prospect which is consistently, continuously and targeted by the 2022 budget. In this budget too, as in the previous two budgets of our Government, there is no new tax, nor is there any increase in any existing one. Among our great tax relief policy is the reduction of the tax rate for legal persons and legal entities from 24% to 22%. The extension of the exemption from the special solidarity levy for 2022. The increase from October 1, 2021 of the tax for parental benefits or grants to relatives of the first category in terms of the amount of EUR 800,000. The reduction in the tax advance on legal persons from 100% to 80% since 2021 on a permanent basis. The extension for 2022 of the reduction in insurance contributions by three units. And all these measures cannot, of course, describe and exhaust the large list of tax evasions of our own policy. Our Government was elected by order of order to exempt the Greek economy and society from the unbearable and caging tax burdens of the previous SYRIZA government and to this end serves and will serve ever since, inevitably, dynamically. Ladies and gentlemen, the financial support, the reduction of tax burdens, our reforms and investments are four pillars which explain the decisive development envisaged for our country. Investments are and will be the catalyst of growth and recovery. Our policy and, in particular, our firm and consistent pro-investment attitude has become valuable and essential. Even within the difficult and hard 2020 when the pandemic surprised the whole world and put global economic function in uncharted waters, in our homeland investments were not reduced, instead increased. And in the first half of 2021, we had a large increase of 12%. In 2022, with a catalyst of resources from the Recovery Fund, we are obviously strengthening investment in our homeland. Strategic and international investment already takes place in Greece. All this is proof of the trust that the international economy gives to our country because of the credibility of the vision and the policy of Mr Mitsotakis. There is no doubt that our clear and absolute objectives are to support Greek entrepreneurship and the entire world of work, to attract new investments, to create many new jobs for all. Unemployment is already falling and with this policy it will fall even further. In addition, our aim is to strengthen our rural economy, our agricultural and livestock income. Our Government has put in place a broad framework of compensation and support for Greek farmers and farmers because of the pandemic and the effects of the climate crisis. The reduction in the rate for feed and the reimbursement of excise duty on agricultural oil are very important interventions. Our primary sector needs the support of the state, it needs the reforms that we aim to implement in order to move forward and thus lead the entire Greek economy to the future that it deserves. In the last two and a half years the fronts that the Government of Mr Mitsotakis had to face have been many and critical. Along with the pandemic, we had Turkey's provocative attitude as well as the harsh consequences of the climate crisis. At the same time, we had the extensive disasters caused by all the earthquakes. Last March, a major earthquake hit my place, the Trikalon Prefecture, and caused extensive and serious disasters. The government towards all these fronts has shown the face of its responsible and historic policy, the face of action and efficiency. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to end by stressing and repeating that the 2022 budget is indicative of the great efforts that this government has made to save human life and save the Greek economy in the pandemic. He is a budget of deep development, deep social, which has as a compass the prosperity of all Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u65	The Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Theodoros Skakakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the budget has necessarily moved to the big issues of the time, pandemic, health expenditure, inflation and expensive prices. And I'll start with the pandemic. When we were preparing for the 2022 budget, we had to think about what we would predict for next year's pandemic. Will we provide for a pandemic year, a year that we will have lockdown, a year that will not come at all tourists like 2021, a year that will be filled with the ICUs by people who are at risk or who are losing their lives? The choice is not easy, as you can see, because pandemic contains very great uncertainties and no one should deal with it with any arrogantness. But scientific data tell us that we have tools as a human being now to deal with pandemic and with much better tests and health protection measures, such as those that populations have learned and followed, and with drugs such as the "PFIZER" pill that seems to be decisive - yesterday Mr Burla spoke of 80 million production in 2023 - to completely prevent hospitalisation in nine of the ten cases and with vaccines, where the commemorative third dose seems to be preventing - at least these are the first elements - the development of the last mutation of "Micro". So as wise, I think, we have made a choice and said that 2022 will be a pandemic year at least on its financial impact. The virus seems to be with us for many years. This option is a choice with which international organisations agree. And I stayed late last night and - I would recommend it to the other ladies and gentlemen - to watch Mr Burla because he agrees with that view. And if you'll excuse me, I'm taking more account of his point of view than I've heard here in the Chamber. In any case, as long as the pandemic exists and as long as it requires us to do health expenditure, we as the Ministry of Finance have made it clear: we will do so without costing us. That is what colleagues, and Mr Kikilis above all, know that we have never denied expenditure. But when we do the spending, we need to think about how much we will spend to deal with the pandemic, how much money we put into prevention and how much to heal. Look at the right choice worldwide is that the money in the prevention of pandemic is getting a place for this particular case of this pandemic extremely well. Vaccines protect a lot more than if you're in a bad position to reach an ICU where your chances worldwide aren't good. And in Greece, you should know that when you enter the ITH, you also have increased chances of the famous intra-Holy-Holy infections. I've been seeing some evidence here, and it's worth tabling them in the Minutes to keep them in mind. We were and I think we were - I haven't seen any younger - the worst in intra-community infections due to the overuse of antibiotics in Europe. That is what I would like to say in the Minutes because it has a particular value. It's from the OECD. [[At this point the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Theodoros Skeylakakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It is one of the problems that this House should face together, because overuse of antibiotics has made us incredibly vulnerable to hospital bacteria. When the cases are increased, obviously, ICUs and hospitals are also being charged. But what saves lives is the vaccine, it's the tests. We're from the first countries to a test. And what will save lives in the next phase is to have a mass vaccination, especially third-dose - and first and second - for 'Omicon'. This is crucial and it is very important if, at this point in time, the opposition found the mental force and said that it was also in favour of compulsory vaccination to send a very strong message for this purpose. Now let's go to how much we spent and how much we spend for health. Look, ladies and gentlemen, we have received a health system, as we all know, with a limited number of ICMs. ID's increased. We have received a health system that the existing ICUs could not cover the normal population, not the population in the event of a pandemic. And health expenditure in previous years, especially in the public health system, was unfortunately limited. SYRIZA had made the choice of preferring to make excesses of overtaxation and put money on the pillow and not on the health system. What did the budget say when we received the health system? Provision of 2019, last budget of SYRIZA, Ministry of Health expenditure of 3,884 billion. What does the forecast of 2022 say? Ministry of Health Budget 4.657 billion and if you deduct the 136 million that are specific COVID expenditures in the Ministry of Health budget, 4.522 billion. We have 637 million euros to rise to the budget. Because there is always a mix-up between budgets and accounts because there are reserves and health costs are increasing over time, there is a use of this change to tell us every year that we are reducing health costs. And he told us last year, because for time we can't say anything. We were told by Mr Tsipras and Mrs Ahtsoglu and Mr Tsakalotos - they were all repeating it together - "You are bringing a budget next year's pandemic for the next year in 2021 which provides for EUR 572 million less for public health." What does budget implementation say? Estimates from the report: in 2020 4,829 billion with all the reserves, with all, in 2021 5,217 billion, that is, we increased from 2020 to a pandemic of 388 million health expenditure. We were told we'd do 572 million less. You fell, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, 960 million euros out. That's the reality. You've fallen out of 960 million euros. My question is how long you're going to get out in 2022. I won't tell you all these lies, I don't like these things, although sometimes I remember Lenin's saying that a lie repetitive becomes true when I hear you. But in any case, we should be serious. We come to the Chamber, to speak with the real figures and not to repeat something that is obviously inaccurate and obviously untrue. In the same period we were told by Mr Tsakalotos and Mrs Ahtsioglou that it is a lie that in 2020 the New Democracy increased by EUR 786 million health expenditure because of a pandemic. He was telling us it's a lie. They were right. We did not increase on the basis of the final execution by 786 million, we increased it by 788. This is the reality and convenience with which you say things in this Chamber that are obviously inaccurate. Now I'm leaving the issue of health expenditure and going to the big question of dishonesty. The problem with appreciation is mainly the problem of natural gas. If you see the historical evolution of fuels, oil fuels are relatively close to the history of this decade. In 2013 - 2014, things were worse, they were close to 100 euros a barrel. In the early years of SYRIZA fell to 50 and this was a great good thing for the Greek economy to recover, but other things happened. In 2018- 2019 it was around 65 to 70 euros and now it's about 70 and something. So our problem is not oil - it is important what I will tell you - is natural gas, which has been ejected and while it was 15 - 20, has now gone to 70. I'm historically speaking. And that puts pressure on all electricity systems in Europe. So we have a problem of accuracy mainly because of electricity, and that is the most difficult we have to deal with. What is coming and suggesting that Criminal Opposition? He's telling us to reduce the oil tax and the other GCC. And I asked what this proposal by SYRIZA means in budgetary terms. We would, therefore, lose if we followed it - bourgeois, I say - 600 million taxes from petrol, 190 from heating diesel, 160 from diesel fuel and 4 from natural gas. Our problem is gas, and this is where we are asking us to put incredible money -600 million is a lot of money - in gas. Let us see socially, in terms of social inequality, what these 600 million mean. I searched and found the statistical service. How many people in Greece don't have a car, so don't they get anything from this tax reduction? It's about 1.3 million. How many have a car? It's about two million. And how many have two or three cars up? It's another million. When you do a tax reduction in gasoline, who gets the money? The 1.3 million who are the poorest get nothing, null, zero. Those who are richer, one million - because if you have two or three cars, you're a little richer - they take the lion's share. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Deputy Minister hits the warning bell.]] So you come and tell us to make a social policy against inequalities, by taking taxes that we will at some point pay them, and by giving them the most wealthy, and excluding the poorest. And that's social policy on the sensitive left, and I'm the analgesic neoliberal. We're kind of messed up somewhere. And I think that, basically, that happened because we in the first phase covered the electricity market and you just want to say something else than we say. That is what I think has happened on the substance. But I do not want to place myself completely. Mr President, I'm gonna need a few more minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u67	Mr. Dog, I don't know what you mean by a few more minutes, because I see how many Members have to speak until night.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u68	Four to five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u69	You have three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u70	I am therefore going to the future for the substance of our policy. Look, ladies and gentlemen, there is no money tree. What we spend this year, if we do so from a deficit, we will pay it sometime in the future. Magic recipes don't exist to spend money. We have to be wise, and that's what we're trying to do. Our debt is important. There's trust. Mrs Lagard mentioned yesterday in the Greek economy, and that is also what spreads and interest rates show. But this confidence exists both in the institutions and in the ECB and in our markets and in our partners - I remember the new German Finance Minister - because we do not say crazy and reforming. That's why there's trust. Otherwise there wouldn't be any trust. The work that we are doing already bears fruit, and that seems to be two very specific elements. Investments and exports. These are already 2021 spectacularly over 2019. 2021 was a pandemic year and compared to 2019 we will have more than 10% increase in investment and we will have a significant increase in exports of goods that will go over 35 billion euros. This means that growth already has some parts of the economy, and when we get out of this bad position in which we have been in the pandemic, the economy will go very well, because there are at the same time the reforms that we are doing, and the reduction of taxation and contributions, and the digitisation of the state and major investments in the green transition. The recovery, despite what you were saying, is obviously a 'V' type - this is where anyone is looking at the numbers - and with the use of the Recovery Fund of time we will have EUR 11 billion in public investment plus the loans from the Recovery Fund. In the recovery fund loans next week, we will sign a contract with the four systems and in the next few days we will send out 800 million to the systemic and other 600 to the EIB and IBRD to launch this huge and very important tool for investments that is additional. We'll file for the Recovery Fund the next payment request in the next few days by 28, 29. I would remind you that there are still countries that have not even been approved by the original draft, and I believe that, despite the difficulties, we will achieve a great deal of absorption in the coming years. The next budget will not be an easy path, but I believe that we have the opportunity to meet the challenges. Finally, I'd like to make a transfer. Think of Greece as a boat, a beautiful quadrant sailboat with an old motorbike. Our economy was an old machine. Seven years ago the ship was taken over by the previous captain, windy but rich. Instead of turning it into the urine wind, he went to drive it to the reef. He had yelled and the crew on deck to dance the length they were going toward the reef. Fortunately, it changed the last minute and at the turn of the last minute it ripped half the sails, the EUR 100 billion that Europeans said we lost, etc. Then to those who on board did their most critical jobs cut the portions in half, and they reacted accordingly, as we all remember. The other sailboats tossed the wave and the gossip boat traveled at a speed close to zero. The crew saw and proved, changed captain, and right now we have a new government that spent two and a half years with the biggest fugitives one could find. There are no harder times than what this government's been through in the last two years, moments hard to make when you had to make life decisions for people.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u71	Mr. Dog, close up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u72	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u73	In contrast to you who are in this way in economics, I seemed to be "large" today.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u74	I'm finishing, I have two more phrases to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u75	All right, come on.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u76	It is difficult, Mr President, for all of us and our families to live together. But I can assure you, from an economic point of view, that as soon as we find a good time the ship will be blown up with a moment of momentum in front and start to slit the wind again. I am sure that will happen, so after many years I am truly optimistic for the Greek economy and Greece for the first time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u77	Sit down for a while, because by using his right by the Rules of Procedure, for three minutes Mr Ragus has the floor as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u78	Mr. Dogfish, you know what the doctor's difference is from the comoyianite, I imagine. This boat you mentioned for your bad luck did not start washing in 2015. This boat was found in 2009, Mr. Dollacakis, because some people who then ruled this ship, plundered it and used the machines and sails, Mr. Dollacakis. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] This ship was in the hands of this party, which you sit on and represent as government. I will overcome your connoisseur logic of comparing a government memorial, Mr Psulakakis, with you who are unfortunately - you should be a memorial - a prememorandum. You are the first government after 2018, Mr. Psulakakis, who is indeed the pandemic, this trick for the entire human society, but you are budgetaryly the first government after the memoranda that can and handle the state budget without financial constraints, not to say that thanks to the pandemic came the divine gift of the Recovery Fund. We're going through this. Mr. Pylakakis, can you come to the House and argue about health expenditure when the Greek people who listen to you at the same time live and learn, learn, are informed, but is mainly experiencing the reality, according to which our fellow humans die because they are not invaded in intensive care units? This reality, Mr. Psulakakis, how do you think the Greek people translate it into their minds? In a way like yours and he says 'how nice do we have a government that spends what is needed for health'? On the contrary, Mr. Dog. With what you say, you are being exposed to the Greek people, not to us. Now not to tell you exactly what is happening within us when we hear you. We are glad to hear you say that. But you clash with the Greek people and the reality that they live, Mr. Psulakakis. At some point, in this consortium numerical, you used a number that impressed me. You said something, and here we will agree: '600 million is very little'? Apparently, it's not very small. Are you not telling me, Mr. Doglakakis, that if the 600 million euros that are scandalously spent on the Training Center in Kalamata are not too small to build a sinful contract with an Israeli company through which we are going to listen to it and buy Italian aircraft, this 1 billion that is now scandalously spent is much or little money, Mr. Psulakaki? The 5 billion direct assignments within the pandemic, which instead of taking advantage of this opportunity to satisfy the real needs of the Greek people, you used it to reach the 5 billion direct awards of many of them for companies that were created and founded last night, friends of your own party. Aren't those, Mr. Dogfish, 5 billion isn't that a lot of money? Is it a little? But the 600 million - which I don't bother how you figure out - is a lot? You are deeply exposed, Mr. Dogaki, because you are actually driving the country back into great adventures. And this boat that managed to stand out in 2018 from the memorials go saves and well to put it back on long and worst adventures.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u79	Mr. Pylakakis, you have the floor for three minutes to answer the part that concerns you, because the last thing about Kalamata has been answered in the House and then the Minister of National Defence will answer. But in the first part of what Mr Ragus said, here you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u80	Mr President, I will not need three minutes. It's a misuse of your time. Let me say two things. First, I raised two specific issues to which I saw with interest that Mr Raguss did not respond and reminded me - when he spoke - of the old joke - I don't know if you remember - 'and you who torture the niggers'. It's a '80s joke when we're trying to change the subject. I raised two issues. I said that you were telling us inaccurately that we are reducing health expenditure. I didn't hear that answer and a counterproject. I said that this money you say we use, the 600 million for fuel, goes to the richest of a left party that is supposed to care about the poorest. And it excludes the poorest. You didn't answer that. You started to say other things. Everyone, Mr. Ragosi, has his own personal history. I am proud of mine, which was quite difficult, as you well know. I have no problem mentioning the weaknesses of the past, but we're in 2021. We are not talking about 2009, 2010 or 2014 or 2015.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u81	Isn't that what you did before?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u82	We are talking about the future. And in the future, what matters is to be wise in the way we use the money. You said we were without budget restrictions. You have no idea. We are not without financial constraints because we are lending from the markets. If you think that when you're borrowed from the markets, you're free of financial restrictions, you're out of your mind.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u83	This cycle of intervention will be closed by two minutes from Mr Theocharis, Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr President. I see Mr. Ragosi leaving. But I want to talk about two points. The first is that he talked to us about the Memorandum Governments. It is reasonable that she has forgotten that she was her first minister in the government who put us in the memorandum. I understand why he forgets it. But what he must not forget - and I am sure he knows and hides it from the Greek people - is that the Recovery Fund and any freedom was not a divine gift. It was negotiated by Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis. It took place after specific actions. When it seemed that we would not have a successful negotiation in Europe, the Prime Minister took concrete initiatives and ended up with the creation of this fund. That is why we have received the largest amount in relation to our country's population. So what is happening is not accidental. It is the hard work of this government and the Prime Minister in particular.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u85	We will proceed as follows. Mr Alexandros Meikopoulou will speak from SYRIZA, and immediately after the speech, Minister Theodorikos will be given. Two MPs will then speak, Mr. Koutsoubas and Mr. Gülekas, and then Minister Skurchos will speak. Mr. Micopulus, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u86	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by sharing a thought with the House with which I believe most of us will agree. First of all, the pandemic has changed everything without a doubt. And in the particular context of today's debate this basic principle becomes a matter of substance and gains a great deal of special weight. Our difference in substance lies in the meaning given by each political area to the policy pursued in this fundamental consideration. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that the majority of the Member States of the European Union, the unprecedented pandemic crisis, first of all, pushed the societies and, consequently, the European governments to reconvene in a positive way some very basic narratives. The universal right to access health, the right to education, the right to free quality public services, the need for stable and well-paid jobs. So there is, ladies and gentlemen, a visible trend in my view in Europe that has largely been dictated by the pandemic where the role of the state in the economy and the need for strong public services are once again gaining considerable strength. From "pay what is needed" through the extraordinary relaxation of the Financial Stability Pact, the Recovery and Resistance Fund and debt recompense, until the increase of the minimum wage that the majority of the countries of the European Union proceeded with, the political climate in Europe has nothing to do with what was in 2015. During the pandemic, in addition to changing correlations to the progressive direction that has taken place in a number of European countries, and even conservative governments have been forced to resort to the progressive arsenal to seek solutions to this huge public health crisis, while at the same time, at the same time, appallingly negative consequences in the field of the economy. In this light, therefore, and after all we all agree that the debate on these days is determined by the pandemic treaty, this year's budget should photograph, reflect, if you like, two very basic targets. Firstly, to incorporate European and international experience at the level of best policies and practices to halt the pandemic and its consequences. Secondly, it should commit all necessary funds to respond actively to all the needs created or raised by the pandemic crisis at the health level, at the level of the economy, at work, at the level of society. Is this happening today? Does this year's budget have such a perfume? Even such an aftermath that the government drew the right conclusions, that it was taught, that she has learned from her mistakes that she has in any case understood what is happening? I will not give you, Mr Ministers, figures, nor will I tell you how much you are cutting off the ordinary budget or how much you have reduced the public health expenditure limit. But I shall give you two very simple and basic conclusions from the study by Mr Tsiodra and Mr Lytra. On the basis of the investigation, it was noted that, first, there is a need to strengthen health systems in the context of the treatment of pandemic and, secondly, that it is essential to make long-term investments in health and, in view of the post-COVID era, ensuring equal access to high quality care for all. The study has been in knowledge since May. From May to today, all pandemic indicators record every negative record. Hospitals and staff are marginalised. Cases increase, losses increase. You knew, we analysed it, you omitted it from the budget. I will tell you that you are still dealing with pandemic with a sense of temporaryity by sending wrong health and epidemiological messages about a pandemic of uninvasive people, wrongly considering that pandemic is a crisis on a raid, planning to provide the most profitable sections of the ESS to the private initiative, while at the same time the international community, the World Health Organisation, the European Union, the OECD, the ECDC, urges all to strengthen public health systems. You know that, you ignored it, you omitted it from the budget. I will point out to you that the one-thematic function of the ESS and the almost abandonment of other morbidity have created uncovered health needs. What does that mean? Very simply increased funding needs for 2022. And you knew that, you ignored it, you omitted it from the budget. You are announcing an exceptional allowance to employees in the ESRB and the EAW, while the pandemic has shown a broadly recognised need to upgrade the wages of the health scientist and the regular salaries of the other staff. There is a golden opportunity to convene with Europe at the level of the remuneration and education of doctors and other health professionals in order to stop Brain Drain and the wave of dismissals of qualified doctors. You know that very well. However, you ignore it. You have omitted it from the state budget. I would stress that, in relation to the EEA, there are no exceptional needs for the management of the coronary, while both health care costs are reduced and the budget is closed for private providers. This means very simply that for the new year there will also be a shift in the cost of care in the citizens' pockets at a juncture with a record of increasing the basic price. You know that, you neglected it, you omitted it from the budget. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to stand against either inflation rates or comparisons for growth rates between quarters or between this year and last year. But everyone recognises that Greece has recently come out of a deep 12-year crisis. The pandemic hit a society already under pressure. We are all witnessing the dramatic increases in gas and electricity, in fuels and in foodstuffs. Greek society is in this war, in this battle, having suffered the second biggest decline in income throughout Europe in 2020, with a dramatic reduction in the purchasing power of the minimum wage, only in November, precisely because of these price increases in the main types of need and nutrition. You know, you neglect it, you ignore it, you omitted it from the state budget. You know, the attitude of the New Democracy towards this rally is easily summarised in the Minister of Development's statements that if - say - the cost of energy is removed, there is no accuracy, no market appreciation. Ingenious! I would add that if you take away people's bad habit of shopping, people's cost of life is zero. You know, when a Prime Minister so emphatically disagrees, so emphatically by his own partners, in relation to the management of pandemic and the major public health issue, when the Ministerial Council on the other hand presents a budget which considers pandemic that I have ended and transient the wave of accuracy and appreciations, accompanied by a promise that 'if necessary, we will do more', then we have a government out of place and time, which de facto will need to change very soon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u87	The Minister for the Protection of Citizens, Mr Theodorikos, is now called at Step. Here, Minister, you have the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the difficult period of the coronary pandemic we all have to fight for the final return to normality. The reality is that there are serious uncertainties, particularly from the continuous mutations that arise and stress that this battle, of course, has a future. A battle that, to allow me to say that it is not a party exploitation by anyone, because it is a case that testifies to the limits of all humanity, health systems throughout the earth, social cohesion and the global economy. So in our time, the good of security comes as an absolute priority on the surface. The Greek police have had a significant contribution to the preservation of social peace and cohesion throughout the past period, and have had a crucial role in the checks on the implementation of the measures. Every day, eight thousand policemen are on the streets of the whole country by controlling the implementation of pandemic containment measures. In this context, the Ministry of Citizen Protection and the Greek Police, we have an unnecessarily front against the para-state of paranoia, irrationality, deliberate dispersal of false news and organised attack on elected democratic institutions. We are against those who deliberately spread lies, play with health and social cohesion. ELAS services identify those who are illegal and acting against public health and safety. Her forces intervene in every violation of the law and lead those responsible to justice, as happened in the well-known unprecedented incident in Pierre. Those who consider that they will make use of this area for political speculation, especially in the extreme right area, are mistaken. In 2021 the Greeks were much more experienced than in 2011. I would clarify that what is being persecuted, of course, is not the opinion of the citizens, but the illegal action of certain extremes. Ladies and gentlemen, our aim is to make the Greek Police even better, to have a police force with a human face, a citizen-friendly, friendly to young people, unbearable and effective, but in dealing with all forms of crime. To achieve an unnegotiable goal: security everywhere, security for all Greeks. It is a difficult task, in which we are determined to respond, despite the major obstacles that exist, despite the existing problems and the sufferings of many decades. We are fighting a great deal on the Attica basin, where 70% of the crime is found, but here it serves only 30% of the power of the Greek Police. It is a reality that we are working with a plan to change it, as there is, unfortunately, the irreparableness of the police and we change it with actions, not with great words and slogans. It is an act that over two months ago, a thousand young policemen have also served the police forces in Attica. It's an act that a hundred extra staffed patrols act every night from 22.00 ́ to 6.00 ́. It is an act that two hundred and fifteen new vehicles and two-wheel motorbikes are directed to direct action so that our policemen have the necessary means to do their job properly, effectively and safely for themselves. It is an act that we modernise the education of women and men who serve in the body of the Greek Police. We started with the DIA Group the retraining of all the police forces in the country, so that all their police laws and rules of involvement, rights and obligations of their own citizens and citizens, as well as best practices, can come to every event, every emergency. It is a fact that we have strengthened the direct action communication centre for a rapid response to the security issues that citizens have. And it is an act that we do not allow any kind of unbaptised anywhere, neither in Attica nor anywhere in the country. And by the way, I can tell you that from last night until now, a very large Greek police operation is taking place in the western districts, in Zefri and in Liosia, where eight drug arrests have already been committed, and of course the pursuit of people, who have been identified, has continued after the publication of yesterday's video. This effort, ladies and gentlemen, brings results. In the quarter of September - October 2021, if you compare it to the corresponding period of 2018 and 2019, there is a decrease in the robbery at Attica by 45% and thefts and burglaries by 13% and 28% respectively. The reason why I compare it with that time is that we had no quarantine, and last year, half of the time, we had quarantine and no comparison can be made. We don't look good on the situation. Here we are, and we will be satisfied when we give a overwhelming blow to crime. But I record the plan and the measures implemented and the results recorded. We are moving forward, with the digitisation of the services we promote in cooperation with the Ministry of Digital Policy, we are releasing forces in this way and we are improving the service of the citizen. We reduce citizens' movements and visits to police stations, so that more policemen can be placed in the fight for security in every neighborhood. This is already the case with the original signature, offered electronically via www.gov.gr and therefore from 1-1-2022 no one will be able to go to the police for this purpose. The big bet for next year is to clear EL.AS. from bureaucratic and administrative activities, such as the delivery of documents. One and a half million documents are handed over every year and that concerns them with their actual security duties. Our aim is therefore to release ourselves to that end in close cooperation with the Ministry of Justice, but also with the Ministry of Finance, which certainly has a strong say in the case. Ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic and incarceration it has caused has led to a series of crimes of domestic and civil violence. The police in the vast majority of cases lead perpetrators to justice, but that is not enough. It is a question of achieving prevention. That is why we went on to establish offices of domestic violence, five in Attica and one in Thessaloniki. We train the staff working there constantly so that the cops know how to handle such incidents. In particular, we are strengthening cooperation with local and regional authorities in order to prevent tragic situations through this cooperation. Our strong priority for 2022 is the safety of students, teachers and workers at universities. There can be no democracy, freedom and education for children if their security is not guaranteed. The law on the establishment of protection teams for university institutions is implemented on the basis of the timetable laid down. On January 15th, the coming year begins the three-month training of the four hundred people recruited for this purpose. The Republican authorities must first form, as the law says, security plans and wherever they need to integrate into them the power of the protection teams of university institutions. Of course, it must be clear to everyone that where there are illegal acts denounced, as happened in the Painting Polytechnic, the police will intervene and do their duty. The Law on Proceedings and Concentrations applies so, in practice, goes hand in hand with the right guaranteed by the Constitution, which is undeniable, with the equally undeniable right of citizens to work, move, communicate freely, without shutting down the roads when marching. We always talk in the context of logic and of fewer marches that are not allowed to close down the centre. The geopolitical reclassifications in the wider region have brought Greece to the forefront of the migration problem. In 2020, the country was faced with the well-known hybrid threat to Evros. I want to be quite clear. We have taken all measures so that we never allow what our neighbours have attempted to do then. Borders shall be kept effectively. Border security is a prerequisite for the security of the whole country. We have strengthened our powers and added modern electronics to the disposal of our officials who guard the borders, which are the borders of the European Union. In 2022 the region of eastern Macedonia - Thrace will be strengthened with five hundred more border guards. Significant steps are being taken in the area of penitentiary policy. We are doing a policy of modernising the infrastructures of the penitentiary system. The relocation of the complex of Korydallos to Aspropyrgos, as well as the construction of new booking stores in Chalkida and Yannina, while "Crete 2" is at an advanced stage of construction in Lasithi. At the same time, we are implementing the plan to increase staff in detention stores with a total of eighteen employees in the year ahead. Significant efforts are being made to improve the sense of security and the living conditions of prisoners in detention stores. We are strengthening the return of the institution working to improve the prospects of the detainees when their sentences expire and return to normal and free social life. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, we are fighting hard against corruption. Our goal is for the few prosperous policemen to be brought before justice. We do not hesitate to bring to light any illegality through the action of the Internal Affairs Service. We do the slogan 'transparency everywhere'. No one's above control. I want to highlight the recent dismantling of a criminal organisation with directional and false prescriptions at a huge cost to the public and the Greek people, to which 13 arrests have already been committed. A hundred and seventy - three are involved in the case, of which forty - nine are doctors with a employment relationship with the public. We support materials, morally, socially and mentally, the Greek and Greek policemen to respond to their complex duties. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government is consistently implementing the New Democracy programme. Election commitments are carried out in every area and of course in the sensitive area of security. We are moving forward with the reforms that the country needs and despite the great difficulties caused by the pandemic, we are moving forward. Many had imagined more calm the first period after Greece came out from the memos. No one could predict what has happened over the last two years. But we are looking at the challenges in the eyes and doing what is required, without excuses and postponements. Because that is the only way we can be worthy of citizens' trust. With this power we continue our work and when the time comes, we will claim the new command from the Greek people, for a Greece with prosperity and security for all, with social solidarity and cohesion. I have completed my speech, but a matter was raised by a colleague from the Officerial Representation an hour ago, about the digital identity contest.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u89	You'll tell me soon. Have a seat in your seat. Mrs Giannakopoulou makes use of the Rules of Procedure and wants to talk about you for two three minutes. So you stay with her and I'll give you time to tell her about the other thing. Mrs. Giannakopoulou, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u90	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, we have listened with caution, and I have to say that I have not heard you mention something that we in the Change Movement refer to and speak boldly, responsibly and by not counting on political costs. We are the first, Minister, to insist for a long time that we need to extend the mandatory vaccination to professional categories that come in direct contact with the citizens and especially the Greek Police. Since we all agree that vaccination is the only effective weapon against the pandemic, in order to build a shield against the coronary, the attempt of persuasive people you must continue - although you give us the feeling that you have suffered the flag - is something that, as it seems, has fallen back. What we are wondering is why you have this unwillingness to proceed with the mandatory vaccination of police officers at the Greek Police. You're having trouble. You don't dare. Fear, Minister. So move on to this. Because we are now on the verge of having unvaccinated police officers who control if Greek citizens are vaccinated in catering shops or in anything else. This would also solve the very important problem that we have with the greatest coverage of vaccination for the public. So I wonder: Why don't you do it? Are you going to answer any arguments? Why don't you dare?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u91	Mr Theodorikos, I will give you three minutes to answer Mrs Giannakopoulos and say what you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u92	Thank you very much, Mr President. The fight to vacate the maximum possible percentage of Greek police officers is continuous. We believe that with our arguments we can convince almost all Greek police officers. For police officers, what is true applies to all workers and the public and private sectors, with the exception of health workers for whom the requirement of continuous contact with the patients who go to the hospital to get well and therefore cannot be jeopardised by the persons who intend to work to do well for people. The percentage - we will give concrete figures because there is a question in Parliament on Monday by a colleague from the Officerial Representation - has certainly exceeded 80% of those who have been vaccinated or have been ill. I repeat, however, that the battle is continuous because what is now of interest is to go to the three vaccinations for all. So we still have, as is true of all Greece, a long road ahead of us. I do not believe that the solution lies in the mandatoryity of vaccination. This also suits the possibilities available to the Greek Police in the event that some would not agree to make this vaccination, from which one could replace them. You know that there are certain conditions and conditions for recruitment and it is not at all the right time to stay without forces of the Greek Police in the complex battle for security that we are currently giving. As far as this issue is concerned, whether or not Greek police officers are being vaccinated. With regard to the issue raised by a SYRIZA colleague on the Identity Tender, I should like to inform the House that the situation in which I received the matter from my predecessor is one of the ongoing competitions where all companies and consortia - all of which participate in this competition - have taken place against each other. The appeals are all in the Council of State, which is in the process of judging the case. As the Minister for Civil Protection I will fully respect the decision of the judiciary and the Council of State.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u93	Let me add that you said in this House, Minister, that they only carry out vaccinated police officers. Because there was a comment that the unvaccinated will check vaccinated.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u94	I have said, Mr President, that citizens must feel absolutely safe because the policemen involved in the inspections take all appropriate security measures. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Just a minute, ladies and gentlemen, just sit here and listen, don't get a bite. Learn to listen, it's not a bad thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u95	Wait till it's done.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u96	I say: citizens must feel absolutely safe. There's nothing to do with why the policemen taking part in the inspections have all the security measures. The vast majority of them - almost all - are police officers who...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u97	Now your problem is 100% or 95%? Is that the problem? Come on!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u98	I said, Mr President, that someone must sometimes want and listen to this life, what should I do?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u99	So, now, as Mr Koutsouba and Mr Güleka have said, and then Minister Scarcho. Here, Mr. Kutsuba, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to contribute and participate in today's debate. We all agree and listen every year, at this time, that the budget is a top political act. The budget actually has two dimensions. It has its political dimension, which is inextricably linked to the principle of declared, but also has its essential content. It is the tool of the state. Therefore, in our positions positive or negative, Collapsing and Opposition, Major and Elisson, we must be careful about the side effects of not voting for a budget. Why do I not remember from the Migration and then - among us now, and I am not trying to convince you to vote for it - that a budget has been voted down. This is the concern that should perhaps be concerned with the House and the Parliamentary Republic. And I link this, Mr President, since you will remember that the founder of our resignation said that the main pillars of the Parliamentary Republic are the government and the opposition. When one of the two is ill, the functioning of the Parliamentary Republic is ill. And why am I saying that? Because in today's debate here in plenary and in society outside, we have a given: the left, the socialists and we all have a past of good and bad. Second finding. From what I have seen and followed over the past few days in all the manifestations of the political and social life of the place, I see an increasing anti-parliamentary behaviour, which tends and has evidence of criminal conduct, and this must also concern the President of Parliament and, in general, Parliament. The other finding is that we all agree that populism is the ganger, the path of the country's political life. However, in today's budget there has not been a shortage of doubts and a distortion of reality. And if we make a political regression in the past, we will see in the last two budgets that the same words were said and then as a major opposition, that this budget will not succeed, that it will not be developmental, that it will not be able to respond. However, when the government took over the country's governance in 2019 it immediately made these promises - without me claiming to solve all the problems - and created such a positive environment for our country abroad and internally and no one can doubt. Ladies and gentlemen, I said at the outset that I will not ask you - especially from the Major Opposition - to vote, as is common in these days, the budget. I would ask you to vote against him in order to vote against the Greek people' s conscience, so that the Greek people can see that all these measures, this sensible, wise policy that the Greek Government follows with responsibility and seriousness, are not followed by you. You are committed to and struggling with ideas of the past and you want to keep Greece firmly in the past. But we want Greece to move forward with responsibility and seriousness! I will not deal with the figures in the budget, so many colleagues have dealt with them. I will ask the other side - which is done, but perhaps in a discreet way - directly from my Government what we promised and about the future, such as linking education, education, production and the economy, to do so immediately. And why am I saying that? Without moving from localist perceptions - and I have said it in the past - I have claimed it since 2004 when I was a candidate for the Voice Prefection - we cannot talk about the Agricultural University - and I want the help and coexistence of all the wings of the Parliament in Athens. The Agricultural University must go to the province, it must go to farmers outside, and I claim - it may not be valid, there may be another proposal - that it must go to Aliarto, where it has private buildings, where it has crops and which are close to Athens, so that it can actually respond and offer farmers. The second thing I ask the government to do, although the Minister for Rural Development is not here, but he is the Deputy Minister for Economic Affairs, is this: we must finally do this - we have discussed it at the beginning of our administration - because our place now needs rural infrastructure. We cannot talk about reducing production costs, about asking young farmers to stay in Kopaida or in Larissa or in the region in general, when we do not have infrastructure and I think it is time for the money to come to our country to give a great deal of money to make big irrigation projects in Kopais, as former associate Constantine Mitsotakis, Mr Tsiplakos, had already started. It is a request from the local society and I think of the entire Greek people in general, in that there must be the seat of the Agricultural University, but that the infrastructure must also be made. I conclude by saying this: we are currently dealing with a key issue in our local society, but I believe that all Greek society, and it has been raised by everyone, will be the burden of reducing electricity at the moment. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that in these difficult times too, with sound and prudent management, we will overcome the hard times and Greece, as the Minister of Economy said, 'the ship will find the way to the future'. We are responsible and seriously looking forward! Thank you. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Mr Constantine Giulekas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u101	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, soon - because the issues are many and complex - I would just like to say this: clearly, because I hear the criticism from the police, no one triumphs from the government, and no one gets caught up in the successes. We are fully aware of the very difficult conditions under which the Greek people live in the pandemic, during the period of accuracy, and we are making a huge effort to deal with them and a great deal has been done by this government. Of course there have also been miscalculations, of course there have also been mistakes, no one sees them. Only anyone who does nothing does nothing does nothing makes no mistakes. But it seems to me that you are criticising, and even a zero-destructive criticism, that nothing is going on in this place, and I am addressing, in particular, the colleagues from the Anti-Population Officers. Ladies and gentlemen, we have no short memory, two and a half years have passed, does it remind you of anything that the CSCE has abolished? Does it remind you of who toweled the pensions? Twenty reductions in pensions and increases in contributions! Does it remind you who brought the generation of 350 euros to this place? Alexis Tsipras' philosophical government! If you want to get into that logic and that confrontation, it's too easy. I'm sorry, but don't think you have people who don't remember and of course don't think that the Greek people have a short memory and forgot about your works and your days. Now, if you had any delusions, if you'd come to smash memos and then you'd vote two or two, that's your problem. Solve your political and delusional problems. But here we are talking politically. And here we are talking about the future. And because I want to talk about an area of foreign policy and defence policy, which should have united us, and I say that I should remember, ladies and gentlemen, that last year in the budget, apart from voting against the other funds, you also voted against defence expenditure. And it makes me a terrible impression. Because I have the conviction, the broad conviction - and I think that here I am expressing the whole House, the Members - that with national defence it cannot and cannot be allowed to play and cannot risk with assessments that certain risks will not be met. And if they do, what do we do in this case? What do we say to the Greek people? That we are unable to guarantee his security, our national sovereignty, our sovereign rights, why did we have another assessment? No, ladies and gentlemen! No, it's not like that. Greece restores its prestige. It increases the strength of political, diplomatic, operational, military and again becomes a factor of stability and peace in the region. In the area of foreign policy, yes, there is indeed a multitude of foreign policy, an extroverted foreign policy, which results. I will not say about the excellent relations we have with the United States, which have been further upgraded with the new American leadership and the amendment of the Defence Cooperation Agreement, which, in addition to all others, has brought American troops located in Souda, Alexandroupolis, which is an additional guarantee, indeed, in an area where threats and, indeed, war cords on the other side of the Aegean are constantly evacuating. Because they're war cords, because there's casus belli, because there's a threat of war. We don't jeopardize, we just leave no chance of luck. And that is what we are doing with foreign policy, and that is what we have done with the agreement with France, a defence cooperation and defence aid agreement. That is what we did with the Defence Assistance Agreement with the United Arab Emirates. This is what we have done by increasing our relations with Israel even more, but also with another number of countries, countries around the region, all of which have the same concern about the attitude of neighbour Turkey, namely the attitude of turbulence in our neighbourhood. I am talking about Egypt, I am talking about Saudi Arabia, I am talking about Bahrain, I am talking about the United Arab Emirates - as I have said - and I am talking about the Oman and a series of other countries, with which we constantly upgrade our relations and strengthen our presence, as is a very strong effort in the region of Africa, where the Turks are selling arms to African democracies, we are offering humanitarian aid for free. We offer vaccines, precisely because we are sending the message to the international community and also to Africa, that is how we mean our relations with such states. And it is not just a matter of foreign policy that produces tangible results and we see them. In addition to all others, Greece has ensured and is very close to the absolute majority of ninety-five written commitments to participate as a non-permanent member in the United Nations Security Council. Let's go to the other side, go to the defense. And we go to the defense because there too quietly, the government of Mr. Mitsotakis, is doing a serious job to fortify our peace. I'm not just going to talk about the twenty-four Raphala deal, about the three fresh bellaras agreement. I will talk about a series of moves, which lead precisely to the recovery of our country's defence power. That is what we are trying to do, because - I repeat - no one can risk or play with the security of the Greek people. I would also like to make it clear here. We're working on peace. We are a state that has proved to be guided by international law. On the other hand, though, because some voices are heard abroad too, I am sorry, but I have to say that such voices are heard internally. The voices of a policy of resentment, in the sense of finding them with Turkey. But Greece certainly wants to find them with all the countries, on the basis of dialogue, on the basis of peace. But what do we have to do with Turkey? The only difference between the delimitation of the continent and the independent economic zone is one. There is no other difference, and in no case can Turkey's unilateral claims to make them the subject of dialogue. [[At this point, the speaker's closing bell is ringing.]] I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. Why did we hear that, "Let's not be lonely in the Aegean, let's find them with the Turks". No, we cannot put on the table and discuss anything but the difference that really exists, a difference which we can discuss, as we have done with Albania, and if we do not find it, we can apply to an international judicial body, so that we can resolve the dispute by signing a promise beforehand. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to say something at this point, which is unfortunately considered by some to be self-evident and given, but it is not. We have been living for the last two, two and a half years - and, of course, before - under the constant threats on the part of Turkey. In February and March 2020, there was an attempt to break the Greek border, working on refugees and immigrants in this direction. The fact that it has not been possible and that for two and a half years - I have been talking about the duration of this government, of course it has been the case before - our borders are fully effective - the Greek skies and Greek seas are completely controlled - because they are the guards of Greece, who are the men and women who serve the Armed Forces of the country, the Greek Police, the Port Authority, the Firehouse. It is not a given fact that we are enjoying this security. We have it as a precious good, because some are awake. We owe them gratitude, we send them the message here, from the National Representation, that we trust them and thank them, for which they ensure the greatest good to the Greek people, so that he can move forward without such problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u102	The Minister of State, Mr. Scortsos, is called in Stepma. Here, Mr Scorcho, you have the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u103	Ladies and gentlemen, following the debate on the budget for 2022 in the previous days, I confess that I was uncomfortable as a citizen. You know, it is strange for a country, which, up to a few years ago, was the black sheep internationally more and systematically receives praise, not from domestic media but from abroad, from European organisations, from foreign investors, from major international investors, from economics, employment, digitalisation, greenisation, but from the overall management of the pandemic, internally, the opposition to do all it can to unleash this good international image and to preserve it only for the sake, levelling up and toxicity. The two hundred years from the Revolution should have worked like a head start for all of us to understand that Greece - which I am sure in this Chamber we all love - went back to these two hundred years only when it was split. When did he go back? When he was closed in, when he was caught in the introvert, when he stopped talking and compared to the rest of the world. Self-reporting, introvert, self-admiration by measure only the past instead of the present and future, are the best allies of stagnation and ultimately of regression, while the rest of the world is running forward. There were terrible things yesterday, from this step, to the MPs of the Coupling who reminded other times and I am glad that there was a direct reaction from the Chief of Officerial Response. However, it is fragmentary and therefore incomplete, because the same and heavier designations retain on a daily basis for the government and other members of it, such as Mr Paulakis, but that is not what he is doing. I hope he will rethink and correct his attitude, because we all remember and should never forget that the same toxicity, the same division, the same asymmetric "class" were transferred ten years ago from within the House to Syntagma Square to then infect the whole territory. There is, therefore, a great, almost greedy, cognitive discrepancy between the reality that the rest of the world sees now for us, the reality experienced by the citizens themselves, who, despite their adversity, see - if anything else - a government that strives every day, trying to change the uncertainties of decades and the reality outlined within this House. And that must concern us. It's trouble to me. I wonder whether this difference in intake of reality, this intensity of criticism, ultimately contributes to the credibility of its policy as a whole and its ability to address citizens in a convincing way. And I end up not. I do not claim, obviously, that opposition should praise the government. That would be against her role. However, in view of the fact that Greece is currently in the first three countries of Europe, which has experienced the highest growth in employment in 2021, the greater recovery of the economy, the most important absorption of Community funds, while at the same time retaining the losses due to COVID below the European average from the beginning of pandemic to the present day, it is - if anything else - to be more moderate, more constructive. How do you justify our country's eight successive positive assessments from our partners in the context of the Reinforced Oversight Programme for Reforms, but also the economic policy pursued? How do you respond to the official approval by the European Commission of both our national project 'Greece 2.0' for the Recovery and Resilience Fund and the next NSRF for the 2021-2027 programming period which ensured 80 billion euros for the country and for the citizens? How acute would your criticism be if we were last in all these economic indicators in Europe instead? Yes, obviously we have plenty of room to get better and to get better. Nor do we have a complex of admitting mistakes and correcting them. The exact opposite. Especially for that government that hears and corrects. But this will not happen by saying no to everything, becoming a saboteur of the national effort, negative of the reality that the rest of the world sees, except you. I would therefore like to share with you the situation of things in the last two and a half years in Greece and the reason why I am personally optimistic, always with evidence and with indisputable measurable indicators that prove that our country is changing, progressing, moving forward, because what is not measured cannot be assessed objectively, fairly and convincingly. What is an indicator of progress for our country, then? Progress index is the five hundred million digital attestations issued electronically this year by the citizens thanks to the thousands of three hundred new digital services of gov.gr, making our lives all easier. What does that mean in practice? It means that thanks to the digital leap that we have made over the past two years, every citizen has saved an average of fifty visits to public services, gaining valuable time for his work, for his family, for what he loves to do in his free time. The growth index is an increase in employment of four hundred thousand workers and a decrease in unemployment of 3.2 points, which is an 11-year-old record. The safest way out of poverty and inequality with the ultimate aim of freedom, prosperity, dignity and justice is investment and jobs, not over-taxation or state allowances. Progress indicator is the fact that our country has for the first time a national strategy for gender equality and women's empowerment in family and work. It has a policy for young people, a strategy for the rights of the LGBTK community, a policy for child abuse, and a new framework for pet animals. There is no collective prosperity when we are systematically indifferent to whole groups of citizens who do not yet have the same opportunities, the same rights as others. There is no culture in our daily lives when we do not care for the welfare of kept and stray animals. Progress indicator is an increase in the average disposable income of each household four times above the rise in inflation, especially now by the international trend of price increases. We have calculated that thanks to the policy of targeted reductions in taxes and insurance contributions, special taxes on energy and mobile telephony tariffs, every household in the country has saved from EUR 365 to EUR 1615 per year. We are thus proving that the economy can enter a virtuous cycle that will fuel healthy and sustainable growth, public revenues and citizens' incomes, without over-taxing citizens' incomes. Indicative of progress is the 21% increase in private investment over the last two years, to finally fill the large investment gap left behind by the ten-year crisis, but also because major strategic investments that have been stuck for years have now begun, from the Greek to Kassiopi. Large companies have trusted our country, such as 'MICROSOT' and 'PFIZER'. Progress indicator is the reduction of carbon emissions by 16 million tonnes and the decision to withdraw the polluter lignite from our energy mix by 2025 and the shift to the RES, the abolition of disposable plastics, the commitment to reduce overfishing in the Greek seas. We owe it to our children to deliver a better and more sustainable natural environment. Progress indicator is that all major urban transport projects have been dismantled, from line 4 in Athens, metro Thessaloniki, road connections such as BOAK or the Patras - Tower network, to reduce regional and intra-urban disparities and get out of isolation of entire regions and populations. The index of solidarity and progress is the doubling of urban buses and the reduction of the ticket. Indicative of progress is the universal ban on smoking in enclosed areas, investment in public health by introducing free preventive tests for long-term diseases, the digital vaccination campaign that re-established to all citizens the Greek state, the digital envelope patient overdue the MITs. Indicator of progress is our systematic investment in public education through the operation of two-year pre-school education throughout the country, the introduction of foreign languages and workshops in infancy and primary education, the appointment for the first time after 12 years of sixteen thousand permanent teachers in general education and special education, the sixty-six new curricula in our schools, the hundreds of twelve new standards and experimental schools, as well as the professional high school standards. The rate of progress is to increase industrial production by 6.3%, exports of products by 15%, to double public and private investment in innovation over the last two years. The internationalisation of our economy, the return to extroversion, processing, innovation lead to a more sustainable future for all of us and stimulate young people who have left before to return to our country. A progress indicator is to strengthen the sense of security in neighborhoods, especially in the less privileged areas, with a thousand five hundred new special taxes and a thousand more police officers in pedestrian patrols, but also to strengthen accountability to police arbitrariness with the pilot use of cameras in police operations. Finally, the index of progress and humanism is the 67% reduction in migration flows on our islands in the first ten months of 2021, the full recording of unaccompanied minors and the relocation to European countries of sixty-three of them, the rapid return of asylum to thousands of refugees living in miserable conditions by 2019, and the armoring of our land and sea borders, our defensive agreements with the United States of America and France, the extension of the territory, the country's large scale thanks to agreements with Italy and Egypt to delimit the AEZs. I have mentioned twelve reasons for making me proud to work for this government, but also optimistic that Greece is changing for everyone, for the sake of all citizens and has a future full of opportunities and prospects in front of it. We believe genuine in these reforms that remove obstacles and release the productive forces of the public and private sectors. We believe in emancipation and empowerment of every citizen so that he can take his life into his own hands, achieve the goals he has set himself, without dependency, without bureaucracy, without customer relations, without unnecessary anti-development barriers. We believe that Greece is a country with huge unexploited possibilities, a blessed place to live, to attempt, to work, to invest, to travel. These objectives are the political project of this government and the 2022 budget that I invite you to vote in favour of. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u104	Wait a minute, Mr Scorcho, because Mrs Giannakopoulou wants to ask a question by using her denunciation for two minutes, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. That is what the Rules of Procedure and I follow him to the letter. Here, Mrs. Giannakopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to ask the Minister two questions. The first has to do with the issue, which has monopolized topicality and rightly, Minister, and I am talking about nothing but publicity of the study by Mr Tsiodra and Mr Lytra. Mr. Economou told us, Minister, that this study was not in the Prime Minister's knowledge. Mr Lytras, however, said - I read it exactly as he said - 'The study in question was notified to the decision-makers'. So I think the question is very reasonable and we are waiting and asking you, Minister, to say and make it clear here at the National Representation who took the study. Who took the study and when did the decision-makers take the decision in their hands? We want an answer and we want it today. Also, Minister, we heard Mr Theodorikos tell us a moment ago that in Greek police 80% of the police are either vaccinated or hospitalized and the Minister told us that if vaccination becomes compulsory we could not afford to stay without the police. You know what? I am also addressing you, Mr Theodorikos. I'm really willing to listen to every argument. Is it possible, however, to wonder whether the Greek police, which is in the hard core of the state and operates hierarchically with what that means, could there, for example, be a refusal in 20% of Greek police officers to be vaccinated? Because that's actually what you told us. Do you not understand that in this sense and the hospitals, respectively, could have the same arguments? Interrogate. Do you understand that, Minister? I wonder why you do not take into account examples of other countries, for example, in New York where with thirty-six thousand police officers when they became mandatory the vaccination was only thirty-seven.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u106	Ms. Giannakopoulou, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u107	So please also your position, because we have heard you some time ago invoke some research, which I can say at the very least is that they underestimate our intelligence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u108	Mr Scorcho, I'll give you the floor for three minutes to answer as you think. Now the second question is completely specific. Here we had the Minister, you could submit it to him. No, we found Mr. Scarcho and we're asking a general question. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u109	It's placed. He's a vaccine coordinator.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u110	I'll answer that. On the first question, Mr Economou's answer yesterday was clear. There's been a lot of noise about a study that doesn't come up with anything new. The government has repeatedly placed itself on these issues, has taken initiatives, has planned and implemented policies that strengthen the health system and are trying to cure precisely these problems. What are the problems identified by the study? That when he accepts a higher burden the health system then it is more difficult to meet the demands, one of the prisoners. And secondly, there are regional disparities in the National Health System. Both issues have been raised to the highest level long before the Prime Minister himself drafted the study and answered by the Ministry of Education. Therefore, whether or not we knew of the study is indifferent. We did not know her, responded, and every day I would like to assure you that the government receives dozens of corresponding suggestions, statistics, studies everything, evaluates everything. Do not therefore try to raise an issue, which is minor. That is the first issue. The second is the Minister's answer. The Government has shown that it is not afraid of compulsoryity, on the contrary it is from the first European countries that have implemented compulsory health and then to a special group of people over sixty who are and the group that is seriously ill. These are the criteria, they are health criteria, and they are not political criteria such as what you set out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u111	Mr. George Tsipras will speak at the end of tonight's meeting, because something extraordinary happened to him. So we shall proceed with the following five colleagues: Mr Sedetakis, Mr Spiritzis, Mr Giokas, Mr Hatzidis and Mr Flamouraris. Mr. Maximos Sedetakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u112	Ladies and gentlemen, this year's budget is being discussed in the stifling climate of our daily deaths of innocent fellow citizens, fellow citizens who have in most cases been lured by various charlatans and have not been vaccinated, our fellow citizens who have not been persuaded by scientists and have not been protected. Otherwise this year's budget would be a budget of optimism, giving a message beyond all doubt that we have achieved recovery and are dynamically entering a lasting sustainable development. In the 2022 budget, the figures are prosperous. All the official evidence available to us confirms this, shows how we will make up for the losses suffered by the country as a result of the health crisis. The year with conservative forecasts will close with growth of 6.9%, i.e. the two-thirds of the 2020 GDP lost will have been covered. For 2022 with growth of 4.5%, we will achieve a total growth that exceeds 11% by achieving to exceed 2019 GDP by 1.7%. Whatever uncertainty causes the development of the global health crisis and inflation the unemployment we have achieved and reduced within the health crisis will continue to decline. Taxes and insurance will continue to fall, because we believe that the economy is being held in motion and an incentive to new investments. Where necessary there will be policies to support vulnerable households, because we believe that productive tissue and social cohesion are maintained. We did it during the pandemic period with EUR 23.5 billion in 2020 and EUR 16.9 billion in 2021 and it succeeded. We'll do it with 3.3 billion extra in 2022. Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard the Opposition defending neither little nor much that the numbers prosper, but people are unhappy. He presented an image that really conflicts with reality. I would perhaps accept listening to their extremism if the international climate imposed a 10% growth for our country and we only achieved 6%. Then yes, to discuss whether we have failed. In the meantime, however, an unprecedented health crisis from the summer and energy with a lot of geopolitical challenges to say that the government has done nothing, that it has failed in everything and at the next moment the irreversible numbers to disprove you require a unique political courage. It is obvious that the Civic Opposition has fought with the truth for years now. As it is obvious that it coexists with the absurdity and we must now also speak in Parliament as a serious debate. So, what's he saying? Do you wish we'd go back to the other side? To prosper and misfortune numbers? What has happened in the past with the well-known painful results of the memorials when two generations were lost to pay for the well-being loan that was obviously not unsavoury? I would therefore expect to hear from the Opposition a few words about these lost generations and see how the next ones will not be lost, because for us to continue prosperous the numbers should be prosperous. The positive figures presented in this budget are due, on the one hand, to the state support for households and businesses we have decided on, on the other hand, to a significant increase in business activity. Foreign colosses such as "PFIZER", "MICROSOFT", "CISCO", "AMAZON" invest in Greece by trusting it. Along with their following domestic players, they form an annual growth rate of 18.1%, while increasing exports by 28%. Is that what happens at random? Apparently not. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs Sakhara Sakhara, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council,]] We are shaping all the terms and conditions to forge that confidence. We do so by reducing taxes and contributions, by digital transformation, by simplifying licensing procedures, with everything that serves the concept of "hospitable investment - pro-business environment". Why do we apply such policies? But precisely because we believe that behind the growth created by the production of new wealth there are people. People create growth, their skills, their ingenuity, desire and ambition for a better life, more creative. I would therefore expect everyone who is cutting people behind numbers to say how and who will bring growth. That is quite clear to us. It is the human capital of young people who, in spite of the difficulties of the long memorial period, remained here and pulled the buttocks so that the country would not be dismantled. We owe them a second chance. They are still the youngest, eighteen to twenty-nine, new entrants in the labour market. They must have the first chance. We have adopted the first sign, an innovative proposal to introduce young people into the labour market. And it's not just her. It is a list of actions that are constantly renewing. And of course, they are also those who in previous years have left and returned with their own capital, with their experience, with all these things that they have seen about how the foreign function. And when this experience is bored with the human resources we have here, it will create the critical material that will fuel the growth we want. This is the core of our thinking behind all the measures to support young people, which cross the actions of each ministry and have been specialised by the relevant ministers. I would therefore be grateful, in particular, to the new opposition politicians, not to deceive all the policies aimed at keeping our young people here, to give them incentives and opportunities to take the issue of development into their own hands, to take the future of the country into their own hands. Because one thing is certain, in the hands of a ageing law-abiding population, it cannot remain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u113	Thank you very much, Mr President. On behalf of SYRIZA, Mr. Spirtzis has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Madam President. After two and a half years of the government of the Mitsotakis State, we hear the budget proposal from colleagues in the New Democracy and especially the ministers of the State of Staff, and there really is nothing more left, ladies and gentlemen, than the whole of the opposition congratulating you. There's nothing left. With what we have heard, we believe that once we get off the street, we will find happy citizens without problems, they will come out of the supermarkets with two strollers each, shopkeepers with blooming businesses, not to catch up with the customers who are inside, the whole country a construction site in orgasm. I mean, I guess once we get out of here, all that's gonna bother us is the sound from the construction of subway 4. Workers are asking not to give them another increase - it is sufficient - and to close doors and windows only for the cold. In other words, the sense of the security of the citizen is so increased that one does not need to close his door. And, of course, the health crisis has ended ten times in the last fifteen days, as Mr Mitsotakis said a dozen times. This is the fantastic country of the state of Mitsotakis. We will now return to our country and say, precisely in contrast to Mr Scorcho and the speech he has made, what is an indicator of progress. Progress indicator is a household, a family, after the first 15 days of the month to live, can have paid bills and not unpaid as today and can go to the supermarket to shop the food and the goods it needs, which is not done in our country. Indicator of progress would be if young people were not slavery in a labour market uncontrolled without control and with such low wages, to "switch" them down. Progress indicator would be if by one click the pension was made, as you promised for two years, whenever you change Minister. Progress marker would be to realize that the bus coronary is stuck. And you haven't given the buses you should nor the trains on the subway. Indicator of progress would be that you do not waste our ancient and cultural heritage on the metro of Thessaloniki and do not cement the Acropolis. That would be an indicator of progress, Mr Scorcho. Unfortunately, we will see another indicator of progress from the study that has dealt with topicality, Mr Lytra and Mr Chiodra. 1 September 2020, two hundred seventy-seven, one of our dead fellow citizens. 6 May 2021 ten thousand eight hundred forty - seven dead fellow citizens, according to study. The difference, one simple subtraction, - the 'perfect' of the government, they know how to do it, is ten thousand five hundred seventy-seven-six dead fellow citizens. Of these, according to the study, three thousand nine hundred eighty eighty were intubated. The remaining six thousand, eighty-eighty, what was it? The government has to answer us. You've got to answer us. Where did these people die? Their home? The hospital, without being allowed to simply intubate, outside the ranches that are being dug up today? Where did these people die? We are not making any mention, because the deaths of our fellow citizens are not counting on certain companies. Today we have reached the nineteen thousand six hundred fifty-one. As far as what you are saying to justify the Prime Minister's lies when he was calling on the President of the SYRIZA that he did not know any study showing that death outside the ICM is greater - certainly, Mr Lytras said other things - tell us this, because I really don't understand. Does the 'excellent' government of the Mitsotakis state need the study by Mr Lytra and Mr Tsiodra to tell us what is going on in hospitals? Does it take a study to tell us that so many of our fellow citizens died, so many were escaped? Don't you have that evidence? Two systems with direct assignments. You had two expert committees. What are you guys doing? How useless is this government that does not know what to say and is based on the friend Sotiris, Mr. Tsiodra, who allegedly hid the elements of his study from the Prime Minister? And that's to justify unjustified. So tell us how many people left, how many of them weren't intubated, what did you do? And you said it wasn't a luxury. You said it, we weren't. Of course, we are going to do some in the area of civil protection. You are again increasing the expenditure for the offices of the Ministers and all the rest in this budget. And Mr. Finance Minister, I would like to ask you a question. We call it every year. Why does it not apply to the Ministry of Civil Protection that all other ministries? Why doesn't he have a C.W.? Why does this particular ministry have so many authorising officers? I do not mention what Mr Chrysochidis said last year, which is in complete contrast with what Mr Theodorikos said today. But tell us that. You've made the House laundry of illegal payments. You brought him to pay for an illegal payment from the NSA. You brought them to book payments for the Greek police. In the Ministry of Health bill, you're bringing illegal payments for civil protection again. You've made the House laundry! Of course, Mr. Theodorikos remembered to tell us about the Menidios, that they're doing business. There's no ride there. He went and held a meeting. Four are in the security department they can't get out. Four people are and they're mocking us here, you're mocking us that you've put a thousand policemen in the department, the ones who come out of school every year. Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u115	Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u116	I shall conclude, Madam President. Even in the business center, they didn't have any people in relation to what we've been told for so many years. At some point when you are expected to come and answer for the rest of the citizens' surveillance of the NSA and the revelations that have been made. And tell us whether you will re-appoint by way of exceptions, as the Minister for Civil Protection said, for the border guards and for the NSA. And I'm ending up, ladies and gentlemen. I wish you especially to the Greek people but also to all of his colleagues in the New Democracy and the rest of the good year with health and luck in the new year to get away very quickly if you really want to offer democracy, health, economy and civil security. Quickly if you love the Greek people, leave. Happy New Year!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u117	Ladies and gentlemen, your time is seven minutes. You know that. I would ask you very much not to go too far. Mr Giokas has the floor for the JRC.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u118	I, too, would like to begin with this big question of whether or not Mitsotakis knew or did not know about the Chiodra study. Reminds the other question of the days if he knew or didn't know about the Kanakis of Radio Arvyla. The answer to this question, however, is of little importance. Because in any case the responsibility is enormous. Because in any case the responsibility is given. And why, at least, we did not expect a study to judge as unexplained and unspeakable the Prime Minister's statements before days that it was the same thing to intubate in or out of ICU to hide a criminal health policy, to hide the fact that this year we have more dead with vaccine than last year in the same period without vaccine. And we wonder whether there is a greater undermining of the necessity of vaccination from this fact and greater supply of all irrationalism, darkness that you too are exploiting as a convenient opponent. A moment ago there was a move back to last year's debate on the state budget. If we really do make this regression, we will see that the only party confirmed by the developments was the JRC. We said in times of deep crisis last year that what should be concerned with workers and the populace is not whether or not there will be growth or what the level of any growth will be. But it should concern the question of who will benefit, who will win and who will lose from it. What did the government say then? That there will be high indicators from which everyone will win, that state intervention in the economy with financial packages will also be beneficial to the people and that the so-called green transition will be fair. And it took a year, and we can see today who was telling the truth and who was lying. Because all the above that took place show which was what it really was, even if there was a benefit for employees, self-employed, retired people who didn't actually win but lost and continue to lose. They lose the situation in the workplace. They're losing with the payroll and the tax payroll. They lose on the basis of government budget forecasts for social health, education, welfare that, in the midst of a pandemic, appear for another year reduced. And the figures for reducing public health expenditure are, for example, not the only ones, when the private health sector not only does not need to be used to deal with pandemic but is speculating on human suffering and life. Because as the Minister of Health informed us: 'We have no communism to do something different'. Good thing we don't have communism. They lose from the launch of inflation, the waves of dishonesty and accuracy as a result of state intervention and expansion policy, which some have made your flag over the past few years. And they lose from inflated electricity accounts, energy poverty, country's dependence on expensive gas and renewable energy sources. And it is not a natural phenomenon, it is the result of the policy that you have followed in all previous years, all governments, the liberalisation of energy. They lose with the desertification of whole areas, the destruction of the environment and so on. So these are the gifts of your policy. These are the gifts not generally and vaguely of growth, they are the gifts of capitalist development that sacrifices the needs of many to win the few and prepare a new round of crisis, which is considered very likely not to be ours, but on the basis of the assessments of international staff. And if all of this is reminded today, it is not for reasons of competitivity or to say that we have been entitled. We remind them of them because very simply on this account the government and this year's government supports and supports this year's state budget, but also because the criticism of the other parties is just the same criticism as a year ago about incompetence, ideality and anti-development policy. And as echoed as this criticism is, in practice, both unrealistic and convenient for the Government of New Democracy. So we do not blame you for lack of competence. We believe that you are capable of implementing a barbaric policy and of achieving even temporary and high growth rates, but destroying workers and people's environments. And you will do so without any hesitation, without any suspension, by exploiting every instrument and, above all, by exploiting authoritarianism. The reason that other parties are resorting to this criticism is very simple. It is because they agree with the main government targets. You agree with the Recovery Fund. You agree with the green transition strategy. You agree with the liberalisation of energy, which you served as a government and you grow delusional about growth - what do you call it? - inclusive. What does it mean to develop inclusively? It will benefit both the workers and the capital, and there has never been anything similar either where the right-wing governments govern or where the so-called progressives are currently ruling, whatever sign they wear - 'progressive alliance', 'democratic party' - is behind the old well-known and sinful social democracy. Because here, in addition to others, we hear incredible things especially from SYRIZA MPs that there is, he says, a prologue turn across Europe and the problem is only in Greece. But do you well not know the programme of the Social Democrats, the new Chancellor in Germany, who came out with a flag beforehand to return to tight fiscal policy, the famous black zero, which is constitutionally established in the German constitution? Do you not know the agreement of the three parties in Germany that provides for the elasticisation of working hours, with arguments that would enable workers to organise their time better or the francs they give to increase the minimum wage? I conclude, Madam President, by calling on the workers to reject government policy with the lies accompanying it, but also the delusional and new remembrances of social democracy, to trust their strength, to organise their struggle and their struggle for radical overthrows that can be achieved today for their own needs, based on objective developments, on progress in science and technology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Hatzidakis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, Madam President. You are asking for an automation election because I don't think you mean it, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. So today we are facing an unprecedented pandemic that has shocked the whole planet. We have an enemy who constantly changes faces, and together changes the form of the threat. And in this battle we must all be united. The government has shown that its priority is the health of citizens and, at the same time, the open society and the open economy. It takes all measures to ensure that the citizens are safe, the ESS and the workers in their jobs. And it is important that we have an ally for the majority of citizens who support the effort and protect themselves and society. And while all together, as is the case in Europe, should be faced with this situation united, SYRIZA unfortunately plays political games on the human losses which are painful for all of us. Close the eye in polarization and social division, sacrifice the health of the whole, tolerant, not to say that you are stumbling, the paranoia of the anti-embolist movement. And now with a lot of nerve you are working science and scientists. You breed Kurubli-type phenomena that fuel the division and situations that we all think we want to leave behind. The country can't stand any more black pages. We therefore urge you to stand up to the circumstances. Ladies and gentlemen, this budget reflects the effective management of extraordinary conditions and creates safe exit prospects. Today the government shares resources fairly and proportionately, is on the side of society, works and brings daily results. And the development of the third quarter is the best performance of the decade, close to 13.4% and over the year it is going to exceed 4.5%. The income available today is higher than the period before the pandemic and the turnover of businesses is back to 2019 levels. And exports show record levels. What does all this mean? They mean that the Mitsotakis Government has succeeded in creating positive prospects for the economy, increasing cash resources and paying off the IMF much earlier, as well as bilateral loans. The brand name of Greece is therefore becoming strong again. The government has shown that it can. It goes on to targeted interventions to support entrepreneurship and to encourage the creation of well-paid and stable jobs. So who would have expected that within two years would Greece become a pioneer in digital policy? Who would expect the state to make such big leaps? Citizens recognize this and this is seen in everyday life. The markets recognize it. It seems in the evaluations that our country is borrowing at historically low interest rates. It appears in the positive assessment of the national recovery plan, seen in the investments of "AMAZON", "PFIZER", "MICROSOT" and other Greek and foreign enterprises choosing our country for its stability and its exceptional human potential. The only thing that refuses this reality is, of course, opposition. It insists on distortion of indicators, closes the eye to the anti-invaders, with the aim of a micropolitical benefit alone. But we in the New Democracy do not fall into the trap of splitting. For us above all are the country and the citizens, not the maintenance of power. As for the health funds, because there have been many inaccuracies these days in this Chamber, the figures are indisputable. It will be at 6.3% of GDP next year. Ladies and gentlemen, the philosophy of the New Democracy is based on the fewer taxes and we have shown it by a steady reduction in taxation. Through the energy transition fund, the government rightly supports and will continue to support households to cover the high energy costs caused by the global crisis. Yes, often the accounts remain high, but the state will be here and will continue to support. Some political forces also claim the privilege of social sensitivity. They claim, therefore, that they have the monopoly of the good heart. But citizens know very well that constant care of this government is not to stay behind. Total social welfare expenditure is increasing compared to the SYRIZA era to 3.7 billion, and in fact, these days have also started to provide double minimum guaranteed income and the beneficiaries receive more than 900 euros. In addition, 318 million has been allocated for farmers this year, with covid payments, de minimis, but also with repayable advances. And ELGA paid for the spring frost 104 million euros. The Government of Mitsotakis therefore supports the Greek farmer with less taxes, reduced VAT on animal feed, a relief in agricultural oil and a suspension of public service obligations from the mid-voltage farms. At the same time, controls are steadily increasing to hit illegal Greekism and protect Greek producers and, of course, consumers. This budget brings a further innovation. A pilot performance budget for the central administration, as well as for the parliament, is established with indicators and evaluation. And this government has shown that it is not afraid of evaluation and citizens deserve an effective administration that will be assessed and improved. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy remains focused on reducing taxes, protecting weaknesses, ensuring social cohesion and attracting investment, supporting entrepreneurship, restoring the middle class that SYRIZA broke apart in previous years. The government is facing crises, overcoming difficulties and taking advantage of opportunities for everyone's benefit. This budget therefore prepares the transition of the economy to a new era with growth for all, with social cohesion and justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Flamouraris now has the floor on behalf of SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u122	Ladies and gentlemen, just a week ago Mr Mitsotakis spoke to the political council in New Democracy, he tried to convince that when his Government was called upon to face many crises together such as national threats, natural disasters, pandemics, not only did it but it has already defeated them. Ironic or nerve? Pick. When Greek society lives with fear of continuous viral mutations in an effort with tragic effects on the social, economic and individual level, we have a government that proves unable to deal with it and yet combined with its ideology and political options lead it to insist on its refusal to strengthen and substantially upgrade the ESS. Reinforcement of the ESS means upgrading hospitals with the recruitment of permanent health personnel and a substantial increase of the IMs in order to meet all needs and not to escape people outside the IM. Regional disparities in health and care that are the main element of many losses within and outside the ICM should be removed. Reinforcement of the ESS means primary care where the family doctor will exist throughout the country to care for everyone and everyone who will care for them with what is needed to be and dismantle hospitals and refer them to them when they have to hospitals so that people do not get there at an advanced stage of illness resulting in a very difficult treatment. The figures prove the truth. With more than nineteen and a half thousand dead, we are in first positions in deaths per million citizens. We have more than seven hundred people daily intubated, of which more than a hundred fifty out of the ICU. We have a low level of vaccinated, around 65% and at the same time a care without monoclonals, without treatments that can be effective. In this harsh reality, with the sole responsibility of the government, you must be more modest. Because you didn't hear the daily appeals of doctors and health first line, but also of the whole Antipolitics that you were told about the upgrade and the measures you need to take. More than today when your government's criminal omissions were tragically captured in the Tsiodra - Lytra study, a study that is a stalk for the government and the Prime Minister himself who claimed in the House that there is no evidence to indicate that non-ATT tuberculosis is greater and asked us to bring studies. These studies were finally brought by Mr Chiodras. Today that the country is in this tragic position, there are cuts in health expenditure in the budget. Ladies and gentlemen, as much as Mr Mitsotakis is trying to rewrite the story by joining it within the right-wing government, the reality does not leave him. As much as they help him, and especially the majority of the media, electronic and non-electronic, there is an investigation of his close partner and overthrows them all. But the discourse of your government and the Prime Minister is true. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall refer to the second major issue that is arousing the Greek people. In your budget that we are discussing, there is no real provision for dealing with the scale of precision that scans the country and that will continue to scan it, because the phenomenon is not a temporary one as they were trying to convince us. At the same time, there are no substantial measures to strengthen the incomes of thousands of households, where, according to EUROSTAT figures, over 25% of citizens are at risk and there are few measures before poverty and social exclusion. At this time, the New Democracy Government strongly refuses to strengthen the world of work, as it does not increase the minimum wage, only with half the euro a day and not with 800 euros a month, as SYRIZA has proposed - Progressive Alliance. The pensioners, who are the great deceived of the Mitsotakis government, abolished the thirteenth pension and gave them a mockery - in our assessment of EUR 250. The new generation is being condemned in an uncertain future, cheap elastic work and great job insecurity. Since July 2019, you have voted for anti-corruption laws abolishing collective bargaining, the legitimate ground for dismissal, the right to unilateral referral to arbitration, etc. Finally, the activation of the bankruptcy law brought you to liquidate properties and grabs the first residence of the poor and weak, turning them from owners to tenants. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, the budget that we are debating reflects this anti-social, oligorical and deafening self-government government and is a declarant of the intentions of a government determined to carry out its original project, which is no more than a country delivered to the private interests of few and chosen people. Even the pandemic, even the climate crisis, is an opportunity for the government to gain from those who represent, at all times at the expense of the majority of the many, the middle, the non-preferential and vulnerable sections of Greek society. Greece in the hands of Mr. Mitsotakis is a traditional country in private interests. You want a country for the very few and not a large social majority, and that is what the budget you have brought out of it. That's why we're voting against him and with him and your government, and when it's the Greek people will do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u123	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. The Vice-President of the Government, Mr Pikrammenos, has the floor for 15 minutes now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u124	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this year's budget debate is, of course, in the shadow of the global and unprecedented pandemic which has hit all of us, but at the same time, I would like to say that it marks the country's return to a normal recovery track. Since the beginning of the pandemic and so far the issue of this government is primarily the support of society through the armoring of social solidarity, but at the same time also the rapid recovery of the economy and the consolidation of the climate of stability in the country. Today, let me talk about the situation in the independent authorities and justice. As you of course know, the quality of the institutions of a country is a basic prerequisite both for the existence of social peace and the existence of economic growth. A qualitative institutional environment is a catalyst for making an economy competitive. Why is that? Because it ensures the basic incentives it needs, namely safety and predictability. However, the importance of the institutions takes particular weight in times of crisis, such as the one that came from the covid pandemic and highlighted the importance of a strong and fair institutional environment for the economy. A characteristic example of what I am saying is the activation at European level of the Recovery Fund. As you know, the Recovery Fund is an exceptional financial instrument intended to support the economies of European countries in a time of crisis. But the Recovery Fund is not a Christmas gift. The Recovery Fund comes under strict conditions and compliance with these conditions, which is a precondition for the disbursement of money, is entirely linked to the quality and effectiveness of the institutions. The first picture we gave as a country when the projects were submitted to the Recovery Fund was very good, enthusiastic. But there's still too much work to be done until we get to the end. And that is where the institutions must operate transparently and effectively. I am referring to the institutions which will exercise control of public contracts to be financed by the Recovery Fund. It will require transparent, rapid and legally sound control. That is why we are trying to upgrade and institutionalise the competent independent authorities so that they can meet the conditions. This effort is part of a wider planning of the government in order to rationalise the situation in the independent authorities. You know that independent authorities have been an institution in the past decades and have been the product of a different concept of governance that is intended to provide major guarantees of independence. However, their legal status and framework of operation, as established in our country, are completely disparate and irresponsible but also often a source of major malfunctions. In the context of this, therefore, this government seeks a very careful clarification of the role of each authority before we reach certain conclusions, if in some cases there is a need to unify principles which have similar or relevant objects and even to abolish principles which have no work to present. Now I would like to refer to justice, which is one of the most crucial factors not only for maintaining social cohesion but also for developing a climate of institutional stability, investment confidence and ultimately economic development. It is now commonly accepted that the administration of justice has a decisive effect on the economy. Many economic theory studies testify that even the best planned regulatory environment may not be efficient if it is not combined with an effective judicial system. In fact, there are analyses which demonstrate that a year of delay in dealing with cases may slow down the growth of a country even by 1%. A judicial system is therefore only effective when it monitors modern reality and is updated accordingly. In other words, it is reformed and adapted to developments. In any case, however, prior agreement and broad consensus are very important. Not only within the political world as well as with the institutions of justice themselves. Because if all the stakeholders accept such institutional changes as absolutely necessary and support them unreservedly as an unresolved demand for modern society and the economy then only we can talk about real reform in justice. Otherwise many of the reforms are at risk once again of not being implemented. The Government and the Minister for Justice have already taken many initiatives which we expect to make a substantial contribution to speeding up the process. I'll report some. Continuous extension of the integrated information system. Possibility for a remote remote conference and for a remote conference. Establishment of a collection and processing office for judicial data, called JustStat. Establishment of specialised sections for cases. I would also fundamentally say that the recent government's legislative initiative, which I was delighted to see was voted for by a large majority for the overall reform of the National School of Judiciary as a necessary but also essential investment in the new generations of judges. This innovative legislation includes arrangements, such as the introduction of essential and meritful selection criteria, education and training in new objects, such as economic theory and analysis and compulsory training by modern educational methods. The way in which the judiciary is assessed is also of paramount importance and the procedure in which it is promoted. But any changes made in all areas should be particularly carefully planned so that it cannot in any event be called into question at least judicial independence. Finally, catalysts for the rapid and effective administration of justice and the achievement of the objectives of the Recovery Fund - because it is one of the conditions - are the so-called judicial charter. It is about the rationalisation of the judiciary in the country and the subsequent establishment, abolition or redistribution in these regions of the various judicial structures, based on reliable data and statistics, which we expect to collect from Just Stat, as I have told you before. To conclude - and because today we are talking about the budget - I would once again like to stress that a modern and effective system of justice is a prerequisite for the country's economic development and prosperity. So let us all make a contribution not only to the government that the situation of justice in Greece will stop being an investment risk and becoming a competitive advantage for our country, because the wealth resulting from this will belong to all Greeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u125	Thank you very much, Mr President. Now Mr Cappatos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Madam President. Vice-Presidents, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I can only say that, once again, respect for parliamentary procedures and basic observance of the rule, which requires us to argue on the text before us rather than on fields that do not fall within it, is self-evident. I cannot ignore, at the same time, that the health crisis and the challenge of limiting the pandemic in Greece, Europe and the world are difficult to circumvent in any debate even that of the state budget. I cannot - finally - understand the obsession of the opposition to fire the top parliamentary debate, that on the state budget, on the pretext of the admittedly critical turning point of the COVID 19 pandemic. Perhaps, on the other hand, if I were to look at examples of members of previous governments who, in their scientific capacity, were trying to justify their political position, I could understand their position a little better today. I am not going to do this, however, because, on the one hand, we are not all the same, and on the other, this is not a question of today's debate. After all, it is still the institutional, political and human - we would say - offensive incident of our colleague yesterday afternoon. An incident that forced the Chief of Officer's Refugee to remove it from the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, a removal that is obviously welcomed. At the same time, however, it can only give rise to comparisons with similar examples to the ranks of Officerial Response that allow them to systematically attack our House and our intelligence. But let it be. Citizens see and compare. Ladies and gentlemen, only a few days have passed since the adoption of the draft law on civil society, the social and economic area intervening between the state and the market. With today's debate on the state budget of 2022, which is obviously different in content, I can only highlight an important aspect that remains common to the two legislations. This is the vast majority of Greek citizens who expect us to draw up a measured, fiscally viable and socially just state budget. Between an organized and effective state and a healthy and free economy, the need for Greek citizens and for oxygen society is interfered. Both the health crisis that we are experiencing and the experience of the ten-year economic crisis that we have sensibly overcome leave a strong imprint on the state budget we are discussing today, a budget which clearly focuses on interventions to relieve society from the consequences of the pandemic crisis, which focuses on structural reforms that strengthen medium-term growth, a budget that highlights the strategy we have chosen and is at the core of our ideological formation, social cohesion, the elimination of inequalities and an increase in public wealth in the interests of all citizens. With the 2022 budget we respond to a number of our main priorities that allow the prospect of sustainable development throughout our country by giving fruit to all Greeks, which favour the digital transformation of public administration by limiting drastic bureaucratic obstacles and unnecessary procedures, a transformation that the citizen experiences and understands day after day in practice, a budget that even shapes that necessary social protection net. With targeted actions, policies to support our vulnerable fellow citizens and fundamental decisions for all Greek citizens, our key ally in the implementation of our directions are both the Recovery Fund and the NRF of the period 2021-2027. The resources we draw from these programmes allow us to implement projects that put the country in a dynamic recovery orbit. After all, the figures themselves show the size of the intervention we have already attempted or aim to attempt in the next few years, interventions to deal with the pandemic in the period 2020-2022 of EUR 43.3 billion. With our homeland gaining the first bet, both in the absorption of the ESDP resources and in the preparation of the national recovery plan, there is no doubt that this budget will also be implemented in the interests of society. The new budget, like the previous one, does not only include new taxes, but also provides for additional reductions and a series of incentives for growth. We are implementing, for example, the 'First Union' programme with young people between eighteen and twenty-nine years of age without previous work experience to receive EUR 1,200 for the first six months of employment. We extend the programme of 100 000 new jobs with an additional fifty thousand new jobs. We abolished the tax on parental benefits and donations up to 700,000 euros. We extend housing allowances for students in public IEK. We are returning the excise duty on diesel to young farmers and farmers participating in cooperative or cooperative schemes. We're reducing the tax on legal persons from 24% to 22%. We provide brave and very important incentives for combinations and cooperation between medium, small and micro-enterprises, including tax reductions. Finally, we provide an increased deduction for expenditure relating to the ‘green’ economy, energy and digital change. But also with the structural changes introduced by the programme "Greece 2.0", the country's institutional model changes with a large number of reforms and investment. It is expected that 3.5 billion will be disbursed over the period 2021-2026 of which 17.8 billion will be allocated to grants and 12.7 billion to loans. From the green and digital transition to employment, skills and social cohesion and from private investment to economic and institutional transformation, a number of investment funds are mobilised for the extroversion, innovation and increased productivity of Greek enterprises. Ladies and gentlemen, I have only listed a few of the forecasts of the new state budget in the context of the time allocated to me. It is very difficult, after all, to argue about the content of such a generous and intrinsic budget text. Even considering the plans for supporting the Greek economy that are running in parallel and I described earlier, the importance of our debate is understood today. It is true that the 2022 budget is being drawn up for the second consecutive year under the uncertainty regime, an uncertainty caused by both the global health crisis and the international crisis in the field of energy, which in turn forms conditions of inflationary pressure. It is at the same time another reality that the first positive macroeconomic results are recorded for the Greek economy. What is important, therefore, these hours is our will to act, to keep society united, to develop sustainable and homeland strong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u127	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Haritou now has the floor on behalf of SYRIZA for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u128	Thank you very much, Madam President. The Minister of Finance, speaking the first night, presented an idyllic picture of the situation. "Unemployment has fallen, we have the greatest decline in Europe," he said, when in each family one or two children are looking for vain work. "Poverty has shrinked, the available income increased," he said, at the same time, when households are fighting to make the month. He said that the deposits increased by 500 million without telling who the bills were inflating. Every good-faithed person will rightly ask himself: Or the Minister was addressing citizens of another country or in common is mocking us. And all this at a time when people live in the uncertainty of pandemic. She understands her international dimension, but she understands very well that you have failed, when we have the largest number of deaths per million people in Europe. You left the country sanitaryly unarmed and now that the study Lytra - Tsiodra, "the king is naked". The lies that the Prime Minister consciously says about the deaths of thousands of our fellow citizens were revealed, while he was required to know the results of the study and, above all, not to hide the truth. I wonder in which European country a prime minister who is lying in this way could stand. Ladies and gentlemen, how does this year's budget condensate the policies to be pursued on the two major fronts of pandemic and accuracy? You have actually declared the end of the pandemic only to justify the 820 million reduction in the budget for health expenditure. 280 of these will be missed by our hospitals. At the Komotini Hospital, the COVID unit of the CIVID unit for the whole region operates marginally with degraded services, despite the efforts of health workers. Same in other clinics. Chronic conditions, events requiring surgery are referred to in detail. They are actually being pushed into the private sector. This is your unforgiving pursuit. After all, it seemed when you changed the character of the new Komotini Hospital. From a legal person governed by public law, you turned it into private law. Ladies and gentlemen, the measures provided for in the budget for the majority of society and the real economy can only be described as expired as aspirins. For you the tsunami of accuracy is a temporary cloud, not a storm that comes for the majority of society, especially for our young people. Precision that is already shrinking incomes, scanning and expanding social inequalities. Instead of raising the minimum wage now to EUR 800, you insist on the shameful increase from EUR 1/1 to EUR 13 a month, that is to say in 50 minutes a day. What employers' interests are you committed to and denied your promise to double the wage increase in relation to the growth rate? Instead of the thirteenth pension introduced by SYRIZA and you were abolished, you are only giving for this year the EUR 250 aid that has already been depleted from accuracy. You are cutting spending on the social policies that are now needed by 1.7 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget is ignored, the primary producers are invisible, the farmers, our farmers, the small particular producers who are the majority in Rhodope. Farmers have been shocking seeing PPC's account double last year because of the adjustment clause. An account with EUR 265 consumption charge and EUR 346,95 the adjustment clause. I'll testify to him. The cost of production in energy, in agricultural supplies, has been sharply excavated. Rally, fertilizer prices do. Last year there was 265 euros of ammonia nitrate. This year's nearly triple, it's 775 euros. And we're talking about wholesale. A sack of fertilizer, Minister - you are not here - that will be needed next month, farmers account for over 200 kg of wheat. That's the reality. I'll give you a comparison of prices. If there is no exceptional financial aid to small producers, if the excise duty on fuel is not reduced, if you do not return to all farmers withholding, if the agricultural current is not reduced, there will be fields of asparagus time, the increase in production and exports said by the Minister will remain summer night dreams. The oil producers of Rhodope, who were affected by early ice cubes, are still waiting for them to be compensated. Likewise, the tobacco producers you promised to grant exceptional aid. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no provision in the budget for supporting small and medium-sized entrepreneurship that is suffocated into the pandemic, with reduced consumer demand, without liquidity and excluded from banking lending. What you have to say to all those who have effectively excluded them from the recovery fund. We have put you in a comprehensive package of proposals to support small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. You don't listen. You have excluded regional development from the recovery fund. Instead of reducing regional disparities, regional disparities will be widened, the GDP per capita will be opened further at the expense of the region. In Thrace through the Intergroup you sell wishes, inexpensive promises for projects without having any impact on the resources of the Recovery Fund or on other financial instruments. The model of growth for all of Greece promised Mr.Mitsotakis that it would become Rhodope. You're turning it into a schmuck in the country. What happened with the Shellman industry, the Nymfan border post that the Prime Minister himself committed last March that they would open up. What about the housing loans of the repatriated peers for which banks issue payment orders? Repeatedly through parliamentary scrutiny, I called for the construction of the Ipsy irrigation dam by joining the Recovery Fund. You guys did what you didn't hear. I'm closing, Madam President. The budget does not respond to the major social needs, nor to the objective of sustainable development for all. The country needs an alternative, progressive exit plan from the crisis. Today this need is a matter of the social forces who want and claim political change to return to society and the prospect of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u129	Mr Alexiadis now has the floor, who will speak from his seat.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, Madam President. In the debate on the budgetary procedure, we must be clear that all this so-called debate is a pretext, because even if we agree to a three hundred change of a budget line or transfer of a budget line without changing the final amount, this cannot be done. I think that's something we need to see at the House level. The Rules of Procedure need to be changed. I say this every year in my relative position, because otherwise we will not have a real dialogue on a very serious issue that sets out policy for the whole year. We cannot, for example, discuss what they are asking for today - a characteristic example - the economists who quite rightly point out that while the Ministry of Finance has accepted it - correctly the Ministry of Finance has done so to say a good word about the Ministry of Finance because you will hear more after that - that the strengthening of the financial illiteracy of the Greeks is capable of improving the economic behaviour of the citizens, on the other hand the Ministry of Education shrinks economic lessons and only one of the three students who graduate from a general high school come into contact with basic economic knowledge. It is a characteristic problem of what we could discuss, whether we had a substantial debate here, and which the economists are right to put. Unfortunately, however, it will remain an issue which has simply been raised. There is a need in the House for a quiet dialogue with arguments with no extremes. There is such a need for us to understand and understand what we are saying. Of course I would remind you who both in this Chamber and outside complained that we were "prosecutors" for the Prespecies Agreement, who told us that we sold Macedonia and exchanged it with the pensions, who made it in here that they believed the Turkish Prime Minister more than the Greek Prime Minister, who said here or outside that we burned the world in Matti. We must not forget those very heavy things that sounded in this Chamber. The then President of Parliament did not initiate the procedure that was initiated yesterday to impose the relevant sanctions. Also to the extremist and outrages we heard in this Chamber remind me of what the New Democracy Heads of State said about the famous twenty-nine unfair taxes of SYRIZA. You will tell me: 'Every time you will say that?' By the time they apologize politically, they'll hear it. They were talking about the twenty-nine unjust taxes of SYRIZA, but I didn't see them abolishing the fee of plastic bags they had voted against, but then they denounced and increased it as government. They did not see the tax being abolished on electronic cigarettes that was rightly institutionalised because it was a new product. I want to understand from the government something. If a new product comes into the market, will it be released tax-free so that no new tax is imposed? Will they abolish these taxes? I want an answer at some point. Of course we can ask questions in this Chamber. The government has chosen its "slopp silence" on many issues and does not respond. And I think it's not an insult to Alexiad who asks questions. As a parliamentary representative of SYRIZA I asked the question here the political leadership of the Ministry of Finance for how much the country's reserve was on December 31, 2014. Let us know sometime. To understand what evil SYRIZA received and how he delivered 37 billion. Of course I do not want to be sad at anyone from the financial staff to remind him that at that time, a representative of the financial staff said that we will not have to pay salaries and pensions. That's the situation we've received. There is a need and we want the real dialogue. We will not hide in extremes and in what New Democracy has done in the past. But we must remember who led to the destruction of the country and the memorials. I'll say something heretic, it'll sound a little weird. I fully agree with what Mr Vorides said in his position, that we must see the political and the results. And at some point Mr Vorides must answer: what policies and what politicians have led us to the memorials and destruction? What policies and what politicians have led the country where SYRIZA received it? And because he even asked us if SYRIZA had obtained something from the experience of bankruptcy, of course we had something to do with it. That these politicians and policies have led us to bankruptcy and, unfortunately, they are now at the wheel of the country. There is one question: Will the budget be voted on? I reverse the question: Why did New Democracy not vote for the 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019 budget, where with good policies we led the country out of the memoranda, with debt regulation and a number of positive growth rates? However, I would like to emphasise again one key issue for the budget and to understand it all in this Chamber and outside this Chamber. This budget has a dreadful prerequisite. It is indirectly formulated on page 66 for returning to normality in relation to pandemic. He expressed it with a more straightforward Greek: "We, however, planned the budget this year on the assumption that pandemic as an economic variable will gradually leave from the beginning of 2022". Since the beginning of 2022 is not ten years later, we want this time period to be answered by the government if this prediction is not confirmed. We want real dialogue, we want answers and we want the government to answer us. Because Mr. Scorchos also spoke, Mr. Pikrammenos spoke. They didn't answer us. Did the Prime Minister know you or not? Did he know about this study of the two teachers or not? Mr Scorchos replied here that we did not know her about the study. But if you'll excuse me very much, either he's lying or one of the authors, who clearly says: "As I have written, we have informed and seen at the highest level." [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I mean, then, that Mr. Mitsotakis has been lying badly and, as the SYRIZA Press Office says, "although the scientists have warned it since May that the ESS will not last and die, people did not do and continue to do nothing to strengthen it." The political responsibilities too heavy and need to be apologised for them. I close, Madam President - and thank you for the tolerance - by referring to what Mr Kastanidis rightly said and on the Rules of Procedure of the House. Because yesterday the whole problem also raised a form, a problem of implementing the Rules of Procedure, and we must also discuss this in the very correct words of Mr Castagnides on the government's well-being. Is there a picture of a disaster in the budget? Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u131	You need to close up, Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u132	I'll be right back. Is there a picture of celebration? Sure, no. On the basis of the information we have submitted to the Committee on Economic Affairs and for which we have not received a reply once again, the situation is very difficult for the citizens. No, therefore, government celebrations, because society knows very well what problems it is facing. Thank you for your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u133	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you that speaking time is seven minutes. Please, there is a relative tolerance, but not so much. Mr Bougas from New Democracy has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, a few days ago Germany's new Minister of Finance Christian Lindner congratulated the Greek Government for its performance and stated that Greece should be an example of an economic policy for Germany. International markets show unprecedented confidence in our country. The cost of borrowing on the capital markets is historically low. Investments are multiplied and exports are increased. A methodically planned is the rational use of the European funds provided by the Government, through the resources of the Recovery Fund and the new NSRF. Taxes and contributions are reduced and liquidity financing programmes are strengthened. Who could, therefore, consider such a development in the country's governance by SYRIZA? Who is not terrified of the country today, if it were SYRIZA? In 2021 Greece built up and implemented the third largest support package in GDP across the eurozone. In the period 2020-2023, we have made financial assistance of EUR 43.3 billion. The number of unemployed is now lower than in April 2010, while the number of persons employed is higher than in June 2011. We have reduced almost all taxes and levies, HISPIA, income tax on natural persons and businesses. We abolished the tax on parental benefits and donations for relatives I graded for real estate and securities up to 800,000 euros. We reduced insurance contributions from one to three percentage points. In addition to this, in the next year, the government is moving towards new relief measures: further a total reduction in HISPIA. Exemption from the special income solidarity levy for private sector workers. Reduction of VAT rates in a number of business activities. At the same time, we are strengthening the institutional framework for regulating non-performing loans so that households and businesses can be exempt from the pressure of the banks. With the budget being voted on, we are targeting even higher. Extrovert, competitiveness, social justice. These are our main objectives. Ladies and gentlemen, the achievement of high growth targets requires modern and flexible public administration and justice, which is a pillar of growth and contributes to the economic well-being of the people. I was very pleased to hear the Deputy Prime Minister's reference to justice. In addition, I would like to say that the government, since the start of its term of office, has been trying to modernise the justice system. In the context of this strategy, it attempted to revise all legal codes, while at a rapid rate an unprecedented digitisation of the entire system of Greek justice is taking place. The new information system on the progress of cases being tried and exposed to civil and criminal courts has already been launched in real time. The electronic lodgement of pleadings - a request for decades from the legal world -, the electronic circulation of judgments, the detailed - in real time - information on the course of cases, the long-distance application and the receipt - of very short-term certificates. With the revision of the Criminal Code, the Ministry of Justice attempted to inspire the citizens with the sense of security that was so shaken by the repeatedly unfortunate legislative choices of the previous government. We've been corrected errors inherited. A series of high criminal deception offences have been upgraded to felony. Only the sentence of life imprisonment was provided for in four very important felonies: homicide, last betrayal, fatal robbery, child rape. At the same time, a strict framework has been established for the effective dismissal of serious offences. The New Democracy really believes and strengthens the independence of justice. And here seems our great difference with SYRIZA, who sought to control the joints of power. He wanted to subdue and manipulate justice to expel his political opponents. The recent revelation of Mr. Tsipra and Deputy Minister of Health in his government, at a party event that during the rule of SYRIZA, he participated in meetings, along with the then Minister of Justice, but also prosecutors, on how to tie up the wife of the Governor of the Bank of Greece in the case of CEDEFOP, is creepy. SYRIZA voted against everything, even measures to tackle the pandemic, reduce taxes and relieve the victims of natural disasters. Because it cannot, obviously, in the budget debate, SYRIZA defending the refusal at all, has now been imprisoned, condemned, practically. Since the first day of the budget debate at the National Representation, in a vulgar and measurable manner, it has, unfortunately, been taking advantage of the agony and fear of the pandemic, as well as the suffering for the human losses. Instead of discussing proposals and budgetary arguments, SYRIZA Members attacked the Government for the Chiodra study. When the professor deplored them, they returned to the infractions, culminating in yesterday’s anti-parliamentary speech Kurubli. Ladies and gentlemen, let us not forget that real growth requires projects throughout the Greek region, which can create conditions of employment and prosperity at all places. In the area of Central Greece - and especially in Fokida - after fifty years, it appears that two major and contagious projects are being implemented: the Bralos section - Amphissa road corridor of Lamia - Amphissa - Antirion, which will create very great opportunities for tourist and commercial development in central Greece, as well as the northern Peloponnese and the coastline of Mornos. Just yesterday, in the presence of the President of the Parliament, in the Special Permanent Committee of the Regions of the Parliament, the injustice that has been committed - for about half a century - to the detriment of the citizens of Fokida, by imposing on the state burdensome commitments and restrictions that strangle growth and has been recognised the state's obligation to give compensatory benefits. Ladies and gentlemen, Greece quickly regains its worth. In the budget debate, as Secretary-General of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, I also sincerely want to thank and congratulate my fellow Members of the New Democracy, who are constantly at the forefront of a multi-fronted fight against crises, the reconstruction of the country and the strengthening of the unity of our people. I call on you to vote in favour of the budget that continues this path that we have drawn up in the implementation of a development, reformist, credible and fair economic policy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u135	The former President of Parliament, Mr Butsi, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u136	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, by listening to my colleague from New Democracy, I am thinking of who is taking advantage of fear and who is manipulating developments in these two years of the pandemic. Society now knows. It is absolutely revealing that the debate in this House on the budget is taking place, and I believe that from now on, all these people will have less and less work to do, which, either as a hagiographer, either as a panel or as a follower of a process of manipulation, deprivation of government responsibilities in all the so-called and especially in the field of pandemic, have shaped a climate of false consensus and tolerance in a society that is really being tested for all these months. Ladies and gentlemen, from your budget and from the debate that takes place there is no sign of perception, of effort and of insight into where the world is today. Before and after the pandemic maybe you should know that it is the top issue that is being discussed today around the world. Everyone understands that a new historical circle opens for our world. Everyone understands through everything that is happening, from the climate crisis, from pandemic, from the economic crisis and from policies on green transition and digital transformation, on the whole climate issue, that we are in a field where rights are being tested, increasing inequalities - and geopolitically in every society - and that very different policies are emerging about how the world is going to go ahead. For your part, where are you from? What you are bringing for discussion, once again, is the famous reintroduction to normality, namely, in the past, like all this debate that is taking place, like the great historical intersection that is for the whole world, the pandemic and its consequences, not meaning anything to you. And indeed, by disciplining this concept of normality and the great interests you represent, you bring in a budget and a project in general that regenerates and exacerbates inequalities, brings poverty, declining the rule of law, overcompensation of the country through the famous armaments diplomacy. A budget that will have the victims of the consequences of not supporting the ERC. That's what we've been talking about for so many days in here. You call recovery as growth and the minimum, the minimum wage we propose, and you do not even think about it. You are absolutely convinced in the Recovery Pact, not and with resilience, as it is, but in a perception that is now your guide, of the Pissaridis report, which becomes fifty in the budget you are proposing, a budget which, on the question of accuracy, which is major and in the next few months literally will create a huge social problem, takes no action. No intervention on energy costs, while you know that on first consumption there are and there will be far greater increases - you will be warned of the same ones who are inside the market - in the coming months. You are not taking steps to bridge these disparities so that the banking system can help small and medium-sized enterprises. The rapporteur has said here that in order to compete with the hundreds of thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises, they must become fewer, otherwise it is not possible. This retrieval and the Recovery Pact and before the Pissaridis report really leads to a stagnation of hundreds of thousands, not only of businesses, but also of people. However, in terms of democracy, ladies and gentlemen, you have also made use of it to the extent that it does not take account of the special circumstances in which our society has been found. You know that these issues of freedoms, rights, personal data in the modern world are at the core of an intense debate and confrontation that is taking place. You, quite consciously, took advantage of these special circumstances. Last proof is that - let me have the expression - you have tried to manipulate and completely weaken the power of the latest constitutional provision in relation to the committee of inquiry, which the minority in the House may recommend. The way you handled as a majority of things in there shows that you are completely intolerant of top issues relating to the media, polling and so on. Direct awards in this period, dismantling public money, opacity to all supplies. I would expect the Vice-President, Mr Pikrammenos, to speak beforehand when he said he would speak on justice matters and on the rule of law, to refer to these matters, even by apologizing or setting the government view. He didn't care. He did not say a word, he did a theoretical position, probably for interventions on the issues of independent authorities and justice. Really? Immunity. For how many and how were given? Through legislative acts. Immunity to who? How did you shield all those who participate in the opacity party? Fofi Gennamata had spoken in time about “Maximus S.A.”. At the same time, it is a systemic control that forbids, which shrinks the public space and does not allow all these issues, which are like sapophres within the body of society, to come to the surface and to degrade them, to punish them. These are the main aspects - that is, beyond accuracy and pandemic - of government policy, where there is not just a failure. This isn't about it. It is a conscious strategy on your part in the pandemic, taking advantage of these special circumstances, to pass an extreme neoliberal programme with great pressure and shrinking particularly in labour rights, guarantees, controls and large bonuses, large openings. For them, there is money for the equipment programmes, or - most importantly - for the very big interests that have supported you and supported you and interact with each other for the prestige of the Recovery Fund. And I come to the subject of the pandemic. Ladies and gentlemen, now, after all that has happened, after all that has been done and will be maintained by the pandemic, it is clear that you have criminal responsibilities in the policy that has been pursued in this area. You're accountable. There have been proposals from this Step and you know that very well. Remember the successive debates where the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups - not only the Chief of Officerial Representation - brought proposals - and social bodies and scientific bodies themselves - to tackle pandemic first, second, third, fourth and fourth waves. You have ignored all these proposals - proposals that are documented - which, for our part, always become fighters, but with respect to the scientific community. And they're made by other forces of counterpopulation. So you ignored them, and moved to the other end patiently, that it will end, at some point end by exhaustion of either the virus or the consequences of the pandemic. That's the truth. That is what today comes up as a matter. Let me tell you that the presence here of Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, but also of parallel debates, is being held - as one can today - by a political cynicism and by a neoliberal obsession with the issue of dealing with the pandemic towards a strategy - on our part - which has been analysed many times by political and social empathy and by the perception of supporting society. When was this report, which we are talking about these days? It happened when Mr Mitsotakis spoke of the last mile to freedom, it happened when he covered and triumphed through proclamations and within the House that things end or go well or go better or that the government does what it can. Therefore, it is in full contrast not only with the views and data of the scientific community, but also with the very reality that the Greek society experienced and experienced painfully. What are we telling you directly: any such report has been made? Minister, I address you. It has been six, eight months since this report took place. I am not addressing the issue of lying or whether the Prime Minister was aware, etc. Obviously it was. I am concerned at the moment to answer responsibly, until tomorrow evening, if there has been another report since it controls and brings to the surface, in order to correct the political, huge issues that have arisen through dramatic experience and thousands of dead and regional inequalities from hospitals to hospitals. And if it didn't happen, why didn't it happen? Is there such a report that, in two, three, five months' time, we are going to discuss it again? Also, should such reports be done? Is this experience coming here? I remember how completely you rejected our proposals to make discussions public in the scientific community, in the Scientific Committee on Health, with teachers. Why? To see now all this magnetic, the X-ray of the enormous weakness of the National Health System can cope with, with hundreds of our fellow citizens outside the ICU or even in ICUs who have 100% mortality in regional hospitals due to the inequality of the ESS. The government has thrown white towel and is simply trying to manipulate and comfort public opinion on this crucial issue. There's only one extra element I'll tell you. Last week the cases at the ages of five to eighteen, i.e. in school, from kindergarten to high school, reached 26%. What measures are taken, which special protocols? What's going on exactly? How are we not going to go to a tragedy in these little ages? Silence! Perseverance! Absolute obsession! Twenty-eight children in every class! Total obsession with all the measures envisaged! Ladies and gentlemen, this is a major political issue. It is not just the report itself and its consciousness to hide from the Prime Minister. Your policy has been defeated, it has been rejected in terms of society in the consciousness of the world. It needs a rapid, radical change in this policy. If you can, do it. We don't have any illusions. I'm telling you right. We believe that only a progressive government, only a government that respects society and can take steps to develop, resuscitate, but also to tackle the multiple waves of the pandemic in terms of life and with human focus, could really help our country. Take it into consideration. Take your responsibilities. The revelations are complete. No longer can all these policies, which are also being raised through the debate, be covered - as I said at the outset - by various trik communications experts, by various false proclamations, by various lines and, indeed, by other policies that are manipulated by other policies to manipulate society. Society will resist. However, the point is that there are no other victims of this extreme neoliberal policy, in which you are systematically indulging. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u137	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs. Jufi has the floor on behalf of SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u138	Madam President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the debate on the budget of 2022 shows the persistent refusal and the choice of the Mitsotakis Government not to support the large social majority at all levels: the management of the pandemic, the economy, the development of, in fact, tormenting citizens, the benefits and support of the social state. So despite the arrogance and self- admiration of the Prime Minister and the congratulations of government officials, we have a debt, ladies and gentlemen - and we do - to listen to society and try to speak the language of truth to the virtual reality that the Government of New Democracy is trying to impose. So far we've heard a lot of lies, with a tomb, swollen with cheap lyricism and useless numericalism. After two years of pandemic, one million cases and almost twenty thousand dead fellow citizens, the National Health System is in a marginal state. Doctors and nurses have exceeded their limits, while fear has nurtured in every house. And instead of real support measures, the government camp is retaliating all reasonable arguments to deceive society. The hidden and ignoring of the Tsiodra-Lytra study is indicative, as is indicative of the attempt to subvert the system by government officials and part of the media. The Government spokesman, of course, in an effort to collect uncomfortables said with enthusiasm that the Maximus Mansion knew nothing, displeasing experts, the same experts who were supposed to consult each other on a daily basis to deal with pandemic. But what does the report say, which, according to its authors, was properly and in good time to those who took the decisions? The report says that mortality is increasing many times for patients outside the ICU and outside the hospitals of Attica, independently - I stress - from all other risk factors, and that is why it recommends direct interventions for the quantitative and qualitative support of the ESS and regional hospitals. What happened and what changed a year later? Dramatic increase in mortality in the fourth wave, the worst country in Europe, with the President of the Hellenic Pulmonary Society, Mr. Lucidis, has been very concerned, we need to look into it and even in the light of the new mutation 'Omicon'. With the coronary, therefore, to glorify, all that the government cares about is to say that it is someone else's fault, one young man, one old man and, of course, always SYRIZA. But if the government wants to find out who really is to blame for the pandemic having fled and our people die at a rate higher than elsewhere, it must look in the mirror. Do we blame her? Let's take a look at the budget figures. Over the past period we have heard from the government's lips that public health will be strengthened. What is actually happening with the budget? Reduction of the Ministry of Health's regular budget by EUR 820 million. When? At a time when our country records one of the worst performances in Europe in terms of death indicators and permeated, with a confessed lack of ICU, with insufficient vaccination rate, deporting the "Omicon" mutation, the government chooses to reduce by EUR 280 million the financing of hospitals, by EUR 124 million of primary health care structures and by EUR 245 million the benefits of the EEAS. At the same time, as we all know, hospitals have become monothematics, failing to provide full services to those who need them. The Deputy Minister of Health tried yesterday to convince us about the opposite, but it has sent a document to hospital administrations to reduce, if necessary, the surgery by 80%. At the University Hospital of Ioannina, this large hospital that covers all of northwest Greece, the second largest after the "Evangelism", the surgery was reduced by 50%, and if tomorrow all the IOC beds are covered, the recovery will be used. What does that mean? That a hospital covering all northwest Greece, the Ionian Islands and Western Macedonia will not be able to do the necessary surgery for people with very serious illnesses, who either have to go to the private sector or to their home, with what this implies for their health. So, ladies and gentlemen, let us be serious. We have before us the "Micon" mutation to wash, with high contagiousity, infectivity and greater immune evasion. So, in what sense, what is the plan to be set for the next day? What are the data we need to assess? Similarly, the extent of the failure and the part of the economy. Accuracy of basic goods, valuations, continuous inflation and, on the other hand, the abolition of eight-hour and collective agreements, norm, unpaid overtime, a reduction in real income. You say that you have reduced unemployment and celebrated, but you have created armies of poor workers. In the middle-class, you have offered political deception to small and medium-sized enterprises as well as to small and medium-sized enterprises, since you refuse to regulate and "pay" debts and you have absolutely no plan for the problem of liquidity. It is therefore clear that you are considering growth that is not about the large social majority, but you are favouring the few, the strong ones and your friends. Same in education. The same downward trend. Two years is afflicted by the educational system and it disproportionately pays the price of the pandemic, but also by the legislation of Mrs Kerameos. What do we see? Instead of discussing the direct recording of learning gaps, the adjustment of material, the training of teachers, the early recruitment of teachers and the substantially large increase in public expenditure, we have a stagnation in proportion to extensive needs. At the same time, at the same time, the government prepares for sponsoring and gradually withdrawing the state from its financial obligations, reducing the needs of universities by 20%, while preparing a cheaper school for the state and more expensive for parents. There is no awareness, therefore, of the real problems of public education, where Mrs Keramos recorded a global original event. He legislated within the pandemic that students increase in classes, kindergartens and primary schools, caused forced mergers in more than a thousand sections, with twenty-seven and twenty-eight students, against any educational and health logic. It did not meet the needs of parallel support, even though we arrived at Christmas, nor did it cover the great needs of special schools. So we see that this policy cannot go any further and, of course, it is also inconsistent with the policies of the European Union. The European Union proposes an increase in graduates in higher education institutions up to 45% by 2030. IEK and an unpaid apprenticeship of minors, says Mrs Kerameos, excluding twenty thousand young people and young people from the universities during the first year of application of the minimum import base. This is why the European Union is funding through the Recovery and Resilience Fund. In the opposite direction, the New Democracy is moving. So I'm hanging up. Your development account, ladies and gentlemen of the government, has been trampled. It is frustrated by the very reality that citizens are experiencing, with anxiety and anxiety, trying to meet their daily needs, to heal their wounds from the ten-year economic crisis, the pandemic and the measures you have not taken to deal with it. The hearts of people have been hardened by fear and difficulty in the face of the unambiguous bias and cynicism that awaits the system of power of the New Democracy and Kyriakos Mitsotakis, for the benefit of a small minority. We are standing on the side of the wide social majority, we are proposing realistic proposals and solutions, we are describing an alternative plan for progressive governance, which will give many hope again. The vote on your budget is a one-way path for the future of the country, democracy, truth and the new generation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, my colleague. Ladies and gentlemen, I am in a very difficult position. I'm telling you that. You ask me for a minute more, I give you a minute, and the minute becomes two and three minutes. Do you not understand that this is how you exclude other colleagues from speaking all their time? How many times are we going to tell this in this room? Mrs Papakostas from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u140	Madam President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, no one can question that pandemic has been the unstable factor, which in some cases has worked equally in planning and targeting policies, confronting us with battles blind and often unequal. But even in time of pandemic, even in time of plagues, earthquakes and sprinklers and fires, we have kept the ship's steering wheel hard, without squatting, without discounts on the democratic institutions. Because many anti-population colleagues have once again rushed to present, in their usual and friendly tactics, the white-black in this Chamber, as society does not see, see, understand or understand its own crisis, I would like to refer to this point in detail, the comparative study carried out by the leading Bertelsmann Foundation, on crisis management and, in particular, this coronary, and the resilience between twenty-nine OECD countries and the European Union, where Greece - Listen, ladies and gentlemen of the Anti-Population! - ranks among the top ranking positions. The study assessed, among other things, the resilience of democracy, the organisation of crisis management and the resilience of the welfare state during the pandemic. Greece has achieved senior positions in the evaluation scales and is one of the amazingly successful states in the management of the pandemic and one of the well-deserved states. According to the research, too, there is strong improvement in governance in relation to the pre-crisis period, while in the category of forming an effective policy it ranks second. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, thanks to the evidence based on the advice of its policy makers. It also says many other interests, but because today our debate concerns the state budget for the coming year, I would like to stress that we are more than proud of the governance of the New Democracy, all that is now budgeted for the year 2022. It has been built on a political leadership that had to pass through fire and iron, through unfamiliar and unprecedented conditions, but above all, through a pandemic crisis, which brought about a global recession. However, ladies and gentlemen, the 2022 budget puts society at the centre, which at this juncture is on two parallel paths, while at the same time serving a common purpose. On the one hand, it includes important initiatives aimed at declining pandemic, with our main commitment that what health needs will have it, and on the other hand, it continues structural reforms for medium-term growth, so as to gradually reduce disparities and achieve a lasting increase in public wealth for the benefit of all. We do not, therefore, bring taxes or unbearable burdens for another year. On the contrary, taxes not only increase, but fall. You're saying, ladies and gentlemen, we're dismantling the middle class, we're povertying it. How much lies now? Are you still not aware that social needs are the ones that define our policy? When you four and a half years of your government imposed twenty-nine new taxes and proceeded not to one, not two, nor three, but to twenty reductions in pensions and contributions, we, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, in the two years of our governance, made more than ten reductions and exemptions in taxes, tax rates and insurance contributions. Of course, we will never suffer a rhetorical comparison, because it is more than obvious and well-known to all that SYRIZA has legislated for four and a half years, making the country runaway and outsider of the European Union, unreliable and unreliable to external investment, resulting in very low growth rates. But, see, we are here today having a news that reflects the effort and what we have achieved the two and a half years of governance over the political, economic and development profile. It is a vote of confidence in our country by colossal world vegetative companies in order to invest in the country. See ‘AMAZON’, ‘MICROSOFT’, ‘PFIZER’ recently, just a few days ago ‘DEUTSCHE TELEC’. And why is that now? Because investors need to continue reforms, a stable fiscal and political framework, a digitisation of the public and a elimination of slow bureaucratic procedures. And we offer a reliable profile to investors with a stable evolving and growing environment that will transform the productive tissue with an emphasis on innovation. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] And to explain, when we say innovation, we mean startups, newly-born technobic companies, and we obviously exclude ghost companies of Mr. Skelias's type - I think "VOXPOP ANALYSIS" - that supposedly involved the element of innovation only in the fact that he did not have a single employee. Because for you it might have been an innovation. For us are the reversal of Brain Drain, the return of our young people, who will develop their excellent skills in their country, in an environment that will give them security and opportunities equal to the developed countries abroad. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Finally, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the 2022 budget is undoubtedly a new beginning. It is the new step from bringing the pandemic back to recovery and normality. The 2022 budget signals the country's return to normal development and confirms a dynamic that is stabilised and constantly improved. We know, of course, that magical recipes in such an uncertain environment do not exist. We know that the dangers are escalating. We are sure, however, that in 2022, not only will we fully recover GDP losses, but we will also achieve a higher economic performance than before a pandemic. The national duty requires us to respond to the increased demands of the time, but also to stand up to the circumstances and we will do so without personal and party calculations, without populism and delusion. Because the aim of the country's full-fledged strengthening in modern world is to impose and demand shocks, creative compositions, national plan and strategy, but above all hard work by all. It requires patriotic conscience, wisdom, consensus and realism and requires political and social stability, security and justice. That is why we are determined to work hard, with all our forces, despite any adversities, despite any political costs, in order to securely pave the way for the economy and society in a virtuous cycle of prosperity and our country, Greece, to the place that it deserves and deserves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u141	Thank you, Mrs. Papacosta. Good evening from me. Happy birthday to those who celebrate. One of them is the next speaker, Mr. Dionyssis Hatzidakis, New Democracy. It's without a can of candy, but what can we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u142	Mr President, you will give me a minute more.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u143	As a gift, just a minute? Opposition accepts.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u144	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like you to believe that I have something to do with the budgets because I have tabled to my municipality nineteen budgets and I know what is a budget and how it is implemented. The 2022 budget was described as unfair, anti-social and anti-government. And I would like to ask, ladies and gentlemen, how it is possible for a budget to be unfair and anti-social when it provides for a reduction in the tax rate for companies from 28% to 22%, a reduction in the tax rate for companies from 100% to 80% - and also started from the tax year 2021 - a reduction in the tax rate for businesses from 100% to 55% for natural persons and tax, which started from 2020, a reduction in the tax rate for natural persons from 22% to 9% for incomes to 10,000 euros, a reduction from the special solidarity levy, which started from 2020, for natural persons carrying out business activities? I said a lot about the exemptions that this government does to businesses. You will tell me: 'Why do you do it in business?' Because I hope you will understand, ladies and gentlemen, that in Greece businesses and entrepreneurs are the overwhelming proportion of the middle class. That is what we are strengthening. When we strengthen entrepreneurship, we give in to the budget. Don't say what they felt and suffered, the middle class, by your own political applications. I'm on it. Exemption from the special solidarity levy for 2021 to private-sector employees and extension of the exemption for 2022 to those engaged in business, property owners and farmers. Reduction of the dividend tax from 10% to 5%. Intermodal reduction of the EMCDDA by 22%. Reduction of insurance contributions to the private sector by three units. An increase of 1-10-2021 tax for parental benefits or donations to relatives 1 to - I repeat - the sum of 700 thousand euros. Ladies and gentlemen, how can a budget be antisocial when unemployment shrinks and shrinks by three and a half points by September this year? We'll see how it turns out in the next few months. How is it possible, ladies and gentlemen, for a budget to be characterised as anti-developmental, when according to the latest figures not of the government, but of EUROSTAT, for the third quarter of 2021, Greece had the best performance and performance in the euro area and the second best level in the nine months on an annual basis. I don't have to tell you other things that did the financial staff. In addition to the investments that have been made in Greece, which have all developed them, I would like to say that yesterday's decision to invest EUR 3 billion in the telecommunications sector was added to the decision by DEUTSCHE TELEKOM, which is one of the largest investments that she has ever made in the telecommunications sector. For all the reasons of opposition, our rapporteur, Mr Thedoros Rousopoulos, has given in-depth, substantiated political and economic responses that are not questionable. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to come to another point. I am thinking of Turkey's President Erdogan's statements to the Turkish National Assembly, which said that Greece has no money to make equipment, and the economy of our country, Greece, is falling apart. In the next two days, I will inform you that the first six Rafah is arriving on the Tanagra Air Force, to incorporate them into our Air Force, fully ready, operationally, with their planned armaments, and within 2022 there will be another twelve Rafah - one month - and the 30% amount has already been paid with the signing of the contract. Also, within the month the shipyards of France begin to cut metals to assemble and build the first fresh bellara to be delivered to our Navy in 2022. On this day, Minister, think that you should call on the MPs from the Navy to be in this joy. Of course, it is not just these, but other armaments are being carried out for the Armed Forces and Security Body in the country. So, ladies and gentlemen, Turkey's President has been disproved, saying that we are financially unreliable. I think that's how you'll be disobeyed. I would like to congratulate the Ministry of National Defence's political and military leadership on the hard work they have done to implement these conventions in record time. I have served twenty-one years, like my colleague Mr Gikas, in the Navy and we know what it is to implement a contract. It takes a minimum five to twelve years to get that stuff. I shall conclude, Mr President. I should like at this point to thank as a simple Greek citizen and as a Member of Parliament the Prime Minister for his enormous contribution to the decisive moves with which the impossible has been achieved, that is, in the midst of an economic crisis, for our country to be equipped with fourth and fifth generation weapons systems, proving that it is not just the cause of the New Democracy, it is the national one. Ladies and gentlemen, without Armed Forces well equipped there is no peace, there is no economic development and we are seeking it. Merry Christmas, have health and take care of yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u145	Thank you very much. Merry Christmas and the best pickup took place. The reason now for the Minister of Defence, Mr Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos. Then Mrs Vetta will be prepared by SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance, Mr. Spiritic from New Democracy, and then we will give Mrs. Mendoni the floor. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u146	Thank you, Mr President. However, Mr President, Mr Hatzidakis, when you have just come down from Stepma, Mr Hatzidakis, we will not tell any of our interlocutors that the neighbours have no money to buy now, so that they do not negotiate unfairly and unjustly. In any case, while continuing from where you have stopped, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to say that the country's defence must be an area which must be managed in terms of national unity, consensus and, if possible, consensus away from all kinds of micro-political purposes and controversy. The risk is enormous, especially in the current geopolitical context, and there is a lot to be done, despite what has already been done. This is my approach and through it, I present to you today the budget of the Ministry of National Defence. As far as the general context is concerned, for the budget debate, the selective colleagues of the government's financial staff have fully and clearly covered this issue. I would like to highlight just and concisely some of the basic parameters that make up the landscape in which the Armed Forces are attempting to make an effort, and in which, respectively, we are attempting to attempt the budget of the Ministry of National Defence. For the second consecutive year, unfortunately, a budget is being drawn up in a situation of uncertainty and liquidity, caused by the global health crisis, which is still evolving and deleting a critical turning point, a pandemic crisis that its energies could not leave unaffected and the budgetary sizes of the country. And within this uncertainty regime, there has also been an additional risk from a wave of international rises in energy and food worldwide, which has affected activities along the entire supply chain and is inevitably pushing down the available income of households and consumers, despite any government measures to reduce the impact, of course, on the financial staff. The government certainly takes - and well does - a package of measures to address the effects of the above international circumstances on households by creating and simplifying, as far as possible, a stronger protection net. I would remind you that the strongest means of stimulating household income is to reduce taxes. As you know, this year no tax is increasing and last year, but too many of them were reduced before, contrary to what was happening in the past. The aim, however, and demanded, despite the refugee and economic crisis or geopolitical tensions, is for our country to be ready to make the leap of growth. A development that is not merely a wish, because the revision of the growth rate for the year 2021 from 3.6% provided for in the medium-term financial framework '22-25' and 6.1% in the preliminary draft budget of 2022 is now shaped by conservative estimates, even 6.9%, and clearly constitutes a reward for economic policy planned and implemented in unprecedented and extremely difficult circumstances. In other words, there is now the scope for investment and some of these investments - I say it to you - will also be in the area of defence. Ladies and gentlemen, economic sizes can be influenced by a variety of external factors, such as geopolitical tensions, international energy crises or uncontrolled migratory flows, in the wider region of the Eastern Mediterranean, where major national interests are at stake, there are, in fact, complex challenges and threats to security and stability. Sufficient and manifested hybrid threats, challenges and security problems do not allow any complacentness. Instead, they require increased vigilance and preparedness. Geopolitical developments in our region are running and I would say that they are changing on a day-to-day basis. They require constant vigilance. On this very point, the point is that the Greek Armed Forces declare their presence, stand up and effectively contribute to ensuring peace, security and stability in our region, always based, like the country, on the rules of international law. The events that we have experienced in 2020, the obviously growing Turkish challenge - in summer and autumn of the same year - and the ongoing review of the neighbour's behaviour demonstrates and confirms, in practice, two things. Firstly, the degree and extent of the threat to our country's sovereign rights and, secondly, the degree of readiness and determination of the Armed Forces of the country, which have once again demonstrated, as has always been demonstrated, that they are the guarantor of territorial independence and the protector of our sovereign rights. The government of the country, with precedence to Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis and with full knowledge of the criticality of geopolitical developments, has moved into two main axes: strengthening our Armed Forces and strengthening our international alliances. We have therefore moved on to an increase in the budget of the Ministry of National Defence from EUR 3,35 billion in total for defence for 2020 to EUR 5,44 billion in 2021, with the budget submitted for 2022, EUR 6,39 billion for next year, subject, of course, to further support for this, during the year, as was done last year, by the Special Reserve, in cooperation with the General Accounting Office of the State. In this way, we provide the possibility of maintaining and strengthening the mechanism to prevent any threat, so that conditions of peace, security and stability can be guaranteed, which I mentioned earlier. This is, therefore, an annual increase that reaches 17.5%, which, overall, restores the budget of the Ministry of National Defence for the first time at the level of the Ministry's pre-crisis budgets at the level of 2009. The presentation before Parliament, therefore, of our Ministry's increased budget is the fruit of a collective, methodical and good cooperation between political and military leadership. I would remind you that the Staff Regulations' recommendations for the needs to be met, a composition of this project by the Chief of HNDGS and his Staff, approval and comparison by the Ministry, final approval by the Prime Minister. Do not laugh, the overall plan of Mrs Mitsotakis is this great effort to rearm the Armed Forces of the country, we are simply implementing it and assisting with our own role in the complex negotiations that it needs to obtain the basics, the keys - I would say - defence systems. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Also, in this area of implementation, much of the contribution of the IAEA and the other services of the Ministry, with methodical and difficult always, but effective negotiations. I feel - and I must say - happy and proud, so I am a member of this national effort, part of this national effort to shield the country, which began at an intensive rate about two and a half years ago. Since then, we have envisioned the Armed Forces, designed and implemented. If the budget is, by nature, filled with evidence of uncertainty, due to forecasts and estimates, the balance sheet always confirms and confirms the effective and efficient management of an organisation. And the result of our work to date leaves no room for doubt that we are going on the right path. With my task in mind at the Ministry, I have set the main lines on which this effort has been built. These courses remain stable until now, showing that everything is done on the basis of an organized, comprehensive, prioritised project needs, with absolute serious professionalism. I'm picking up: First axle. We ensure our policy, the adequacy of defence equipment, both in upgrading and supporting existing core armed systems of the Armed Forces and the acquisition of new weapons systems. Second axle. We are reorganising the structure of the Armed Forces, focusing on increasing the availability of intellectual resources. Third axle. We invest in military training both through the increase in the percentage of admissions to military schools, as well as through the cooperation of the Higher Military Training Institutions and Schools with the country's highest education institutions, as well as with corresponding foreign schools in international cooperation. [[At this point, the warning bell closes the speaking time of the Minister]] Fourth axle. We are focusing on strengthening the domestic defence industry on the basis of perceptions of modern entrepreneurship and economy. In spite of the problems, there is no doubt, I think there is progress, because there is work to be done for enterprises in the domestic defence industry and, above all, there is an increased extroversion. Fifth axle. We are implementing our programme and, in particular, its piece of equipment with full transparency and full information to Parliament, the competent committees and the Greek people. Last but not least, we propose active defence diplomacy, having succeeded in creating and strengthening a strong defence grid at bilateral and multilateral level, making use of every opportunity to increase our national power and making our country now a key pillar of security and stability in our region. Now, ladies and gentlemen, everyone accepts it, and the strong ones in particular accept it. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I will take some more time, Mr President, because it is a great deal of work, and it will take a long time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u147	Why not?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u148	Especially for equipment, the budget for 2022 is increased by about 856 million euros, or 34%, compared with 2021 appropriations. By over 636%, he is more than six times higher than the two-year budget, to have a clear picture of the work being done. Expenditure on equipment is now set at EUR 3,37 billion in order to serve support needs, upgrade existing weapons and acquire new systems. There is an intensive effort that some do not mean to understand, it is not an armaments race with Turkey, nor an armaments competition, but simply a race to cover years' gaps in the renewal and upgrading of the armed systems, so as to strengthen the overall deterrent power of the country's Armed Forces. Expenditure on equipment is in line with the new capacity structure 2020-2025, in line with the medium-term defence equipment programme of the current period, and, of course, the government's overall budgetary planning for the coming years. These decisions require months of intensive consultations and negotiations between different actors, military and economic staff, companies, different countries and governments. So this is a complex and time-consuming process. However, these results are already tangible and measurable. I would like to speed up some of them, which have, after all, been heard. Acquisition of eighteen Ruffalo aircraft in record time. If you remember last year, we signed the contract. It was six, seven months before. Within six, seven months of the initial negotiations we reached the contract and in a few days as the first six Rafahs were said to come and nest at the base of Tanagra to attempt in the Greek ethers, with the country's mark on the wings and Greek operators in the cockpit. It will be the first half of which will emerge from the trainers of the rest. The second six will be delivered in 2022 and the third one in 2023. And as you already know, the Air Force will also obtain another six new Rafael, the acquisition of which is being negotiated by the relevant staff at this time and shortly, next week, we will come to inform the House's Committee on Equipment on the procedure to be followed, so that we can proceed with the resolution, first of all, by this House, with the approval and after signature of this six-new Rafalis convention, to reach the total number of full-scale, twenty-four, but by the arms that they must carry, that is to say, the spare parts with which they must be provided, that is, with the contract of support and, of course, the related infrastructure, we must not forget the very important part of the support, the infrastructure and the insect, that is, the staff currently being trained in order to provide these infrastructures in Tanagra. Apart from obtaining the Rafahs, however, another key equipment program is being contracted. I am referring to the very recent agreement on the acquisition of three freshmen Belaras and the huge reinforcement of our fleet through this programme where we can easily claim to be the entrance to the new era for our Navy. It is not only the size of the economic object that makes this particular supply of major importance. It is also the fact that a large part of our fleet is approaching the end of its life cycle and the need to replace these units is more than imperative. It's a deal. Well. Which will launch the course, the fate of the Navy for the next thirty years, and it was certainly something that our glorious Navy deserved and deserved. This armament program was delayed coming, but it finally came. Based on the existing design, two frigates will be delivered in 2025, go to the second beginning of 2026 and the next in 2026. We do, of course, ensure that the Navy is strengthened even further, since fleet renewal needs are not confined to the supply of three new wells. In time we will be able to say more. You know, however, that at the moment, both the negotiation for the acquisition of four young corpses as well as the one for the modernisation of the four MEO wells who will eventually complete the EUR 5 billion programme for our Navy. That's the roof, and we'll catch it in the absolute. I would remind you that within the next year, the last number 7 missile will finally be handed over by a programme launched at the beginning of the century, but it has been accelerating and ending in the last two years. Therefore, the two flagship reinforcement programmes of the Armed Forces that exponentially upload operational capabilities are data, but they are not the only ones. I would remind you that in this context, the Air Force now has increased availability in the Miraz 2000-5 aeroplanes, which, for the first time since 2012, have been in existence and are being contracted as a result of support, so unavoidable flow of spare parts is being added to the availability of this type of aircraft of our Air Force. It has also unlocked and the F-16 upgrade program is being implemented in Viper version. At the moment, eight aircraft are located in the shelters, in the infrastructure of the ODA, dismantled and further upgraded. The next step is to be taken, to upgrade the F-16 Block 50, but for the sake of transparency and we have told the committee responsible that it will come before this House for approval by a new convention, so that there is no shadow. On Tuesday, the committee responsible will be invited to approve the awarding decision for the C-27 transport contract so that they will finally begin to come back to the new year by applying the contract and to add transport aircraft of this type to the availability of the Air Force. We are also working on the creation of the international air education centre in Kalamata for which so much has been heard, I would say. A military intervention for the future of personnel, however, of the Air Force, because a new Rhafas, without well-trained, excellent trained pilots, with apologies, like new Belaras without trained crews, is like Admiral Koundouriotis "Wild and pencil that is floating and sinking in water and nothing else". In February, therefore, the first two infrastructure buildings will be inaugurated in Kalamata as part of the evolution of this contract, a building in which a modern simulator will be installed and another used as a shed and a shed of materials. In addition, the Navy will be equipped with seven new state-of-the-art anti-Bank helicopters, the best available in their species today, the first two of which will be taken in 2022. As a whole, not to say much, since July 2019, sixty-five programs have been activated and remain activated regarding the acquisition of weapon systems. Of these, thirty-five are already financed and have already been compromised, i.e. they are now executed in absolute forty-six and then followed up. A reference to the personnel of the Armed Forces who, with a sense of duty and a sense of responsibility for the work they are doing, is really the driving lever of the system, the real and undeniable multiplier of the Armed Forces. In 2021 it was the year when the new potential, i.e. professional soldiers and short-range gunmen, joined the ranks of the Armed Forces. In 2022, the effort will continue by providing for the recruitment of additional six thousand VDUs and a thousand short-class gunmen. In addition, for 2022, the number of admissions to military schools, the productive schools of the Armed Forces, the School of Hope, the School of Icarons, the School of Naval Tests is expected to remain at the increased level of the Thousands of Thirty-five students compared with the corresponding number of eight hundred nineteen who entered the productive schools by 2020. The ultimate objective is to achieve the objective of strengthening the human resources of the Armed Forces by fifteen thousand people in five years' time, thus contributing to both age renewal and to the qualitative upgrading of the military personnel. By incorporating these forecasts into the next financial year's budget, because the figures in this debate are also important, pay credits increase by 2.07% or by an absolute figure of 50.6 million compared to 2021, which amount to about 2.5 billion. The implementation of the equipment in conjunction with the promoted recruitment has created conditions of increase, as is natural, of the operating part of the budget, i.e. the third arm: equipment, personnel, operating costs, fuel costs, supplies, clothing, military bases, maintenance - repairs of equipment and installations, etc., at a rate of approximately 9.47% or about 45.5 million at absolute prices. To avoid saying too much, I move on to the last part of active diplomacy, and that's what I'm closing down. Of course diplomatic policy is carried out primarily by the Prime Minister and, of course, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, but at the level of defence diplomacy, the Ministry of National Defence from his own time contributes with a number of agreements concluded in the area of defence cooperation, making Greece a pillar of stability and security in an unstable region. The newly signed defence cooperation agreements, of a strategic nature, were a milestone of these efforts and a milestone of defence cooperation with the United States of America and France. As a whole, these two agreements highlight a high footprint on defence and security and promote the international stabilization role of Greece. It counts more as far as Greece is concerned and the way these countries see it, the strong partners and allies than they counted years ago. And that is not the only project we have to show in this area. A series of agreements concluded in defence cooperation that provide for our participation in bilateral, tripartite and multilateral arrangements are evolving with countries with which we share in many respects the same views on security and stability in the region. I would remind you: Tripartite cooperation with Cyprus and Israel. Tripartite cooperation with Cyprus and Egypt. Cooperation "three plus one" involving Cyprus, Israel and the United States. The news is recently and is well off the other Atlantic bank. Quarterly with the participation of France, Italy and Cyprus. As well as bilateral cooperation agreements in the defence field with Egypt, the United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia. Ladies and gentlemen, one final comment on the social person of the Armed Forces. The Armed Forces are carrying out actions along the entire Greek territory in areas such as health, research and rescue, aerospace, construction of public utility projects as well as very important assistance in dealing with extensive natural disasters and, of course, efficient management of migratory flows. I also welcome the fact that the Ministry of National Defence has been strengthened this year with some EUR 104 000 000 in the framework of assistance to deal with migration flows for actions and projects relating to hosting structures and the single border surveillance body. They are always ready for the Armed Forces to help when required to show their multilevel work. Of all this could not be missing, as could efforts to combat the health crisis, with the aid of the Armed Forces being catalysts. Two hospitals, 251 S.A. and NIMITS, were intensified when and for as long as required in the ESS on-call system, and the civil servants of the Armed Forces have also contributed to the national vaccination effort uninterruptedly since the first time. Ladies and gentlemen, in closing my speech, I would like to assure you that the Armed Forces are and remain strong, ready-to-war, worthy and emit in every direction a strong deterrent. I had no doubt about this ever, but in recent years I have seen it on my own side and have therefore worked with all my powers and the happy privilege of having the absolute support of other policies, of course also of military leadership. The Armed Forces are constantly upgraded to structures, renewed to human resources and shielded with the latest weapon systems. Within full transparency and - I dare say - despite the budgetary problems faced by the country in the recent past, it is now in the face of developments. Her overall defensive print is powerful and identifiable. And now I think, in conclusion, that it is time that National Representation has to admit this by standing in the circumstances, voting in favour of the budget of the Ministry of National Defence, a budget - a post I would call it - to cover the country's defence needs, a budget that will make the'sex' of Greece, which is the Armed Forces, and in the last two years it has been sharpening and melting, more bright and sharp, making the Greeks happy in reality and the conviction that they are really safe. Of course I am voting in favour of the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u149	Thank you, too, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u150	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u151	Mr. Mylonakis, please, in your speech, not now. You'll talk soon. Don't take it like that again.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u152	I want to ask the Minister a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u153	He'll ask for another after that, and we'll have the same little kitten. All the parliamentary representatives must speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u154	Just a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u155	Here, ask a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u156	Minister, the costs are indeed very high. We are approaching the EUR 6.39 billion in 2009. However, what we are watching once again is that, for the members of our Armed Forces, you have said this before, despite the recruitment of an RDP, etc., two thousand six hundred, for 2022, the increase is only 2%, i.e. about 49 million euros and something, 50 million euros. Do you think that in 2009 the money received by the executives was the same ones they get today? No concern for the officers of the Armed Forces. Second, military doctors. We are watching the end of the illogical extremity. The Prime Minister - and rightly said - will give a bonus to all the doctors who fought the pandemic within Christmas. The military doctors who were all over the war, as you say about the pandemic, why won't they take that 50% bonus of basic salary like everyone else? The O.R.D. order came out the other day and doesn't have them in it. I'd like an answer to them, please. Also, because you spoke about armaments, you know very well that we have very much supported all defensive costs. What about transport, C130? You talked about the C27s. Can you fix the C130s? Two and a half years came out with a C130? What's gonna happen? It must be completed in order to be able to make transfers, otherwise we will not be able to do anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u157	Minister, Mr. Brutsis should also ask his question, and then you'll answer both of you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u158	Thank you, Mr President. It is not a question to the Minister, but I would ask him to repeat something that I want to make more clear in the Chamber, because in trying to speed up his speech he has not been heard with the purity that he must have. Minister, can you repeat the timetable for the receipt of the Rafahs in our country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u159	Mr. Hatzidakis said that. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u160	Although this is not the case for answering these questions. Do we now have a debate on the budget on the C130 timetable? After all, in the committee that is going to take place this week, you can ask it there, except for the subject of the agenda, and you will be given a full briefing. At the moment, be satisfied that C27 will now begin to be supported by spare parts from the beginning of next year. As for the C130, you know that the availability is low. I shall also bring a proposal there to the Commission to discuss the options we have before us in order to restore this very important element of the fleet of transport aircraft. As far as wages are concerned, I concluded that expenditure is increased. You know that, in the form of exceptional allowances or issue of march sheets, we are paying extra financial aid by recognising, however, the work of the Armed Forces officials at all levels. As far as military doctors are concerned, there is additional financial support for doctors from the military hospitals, as well as for all doctors in the Armed Forces health units and other than hospitals. See it and you'll see that they're covered by the bonus too. Besides, the contribution of the Armed Forces health personnel to the management of pandemic - if you go to a vaccination centre you will find this - is more than discreet and valuable. But look. He's inside. Finally, with regard to the receipt of the Rafahs, I repeat, the first six will come to Tanagra on 19 January. With regard to education, I have heard a lot of nonsense about this. Some doubted that the market had become, because pilots had, of course, to be trained for many months and pilots and ground support, maintenance and so on in France, on the corresponding basis. They will now come to settle - obviously this wants to have enough pre-treatment - and officially since 19 January, and then on the basis of Tanagra, which is intended to be welcomed and lives for days of genuinely great prolongation in relation to the past, when there were tacks in the miraz brakes 2000-5, at times of absence of contracts then supported. The remaining six in 2022 and the third sixteen in 2023. As far as the new six which we are about to obtain are concerned, we will bring this convention first for the information of the Committee on Equipment, then for a vote in the Committee on Foreign and Security and then in plenary. Obviously, we'll see another timeline there. But with regard to what we have already received, what I have analysed is the timetable for their receipt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u161	Thank you very much. Mrs Kallipe Vetta is called in Step by SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance. Get Mr. Spiritos ready from New Democracy and then Mrs. Mendoni will speak. Here, Mrs. Vetta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u162	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the budget of 2022 has demonstrated the basic assessments of the progress of economic growth. The SYRIZA rapporteurs have heard good arguments about indicators, expenditure and revenues as well as the distribution of social and development needs, where it is obvious that support is weak and incomplete. The debate on the budget, however, is not just about the economy. It is a global political controversy, a programmed qualitative alternative to depositing positions at a very critical time. We have seen in the past figures and indicators showing an economic expansion, but the citizens did not prosper. On the contrary, any development to be fair should be inclusive, sustainable and should concern all residents of our country. For example, the Parliament's Budget Office, which has established that the budget has many uncertainties, said that any measure which arises should be targeted at the economically weaker. At the same time, people under the poverty line are growing. Labour precariousness is gigantic and social inequalities are exacerbated. That is why we must be very careful, as after a very great retreat in economic sizes, which placed us in the third worst position in Europe in 2020, the forecasts are not prosperous. Inflation, the measures needed to support households and businesses due to the explosion of commodity and energy prices, public debt exceeding 200%, but also the gradual reintroduction of budgetary constraints creates an environment of uncertainty. The 2022 budget, as has been said, firstly places too much emphasis on support from the Recovery Fund for which no consultation has taken place, and it does not support small and medium-sized enterprises that are totally excluded. Secondly, it does not address the question of accuracy when inflation approaches the levels of 5% with product appreciations and outrageous increases in electricity accounts. We must not overlook that the majority of professionals, farmers, employees and, above all, small and medium-sized enterprises are faced with a horrendous increase in production costs and a decline in income. Thirdly, it provides for a financial adjustment of nine percentage points for the next two years in the middle of a pandemic and energy crisis aimed at reducing the deficit at such a speed that reminiscent of the 2013 adjustment levels of the toughest Memorandum period. Fourthly, at the same time we have a reduction of almost EUR 800 million in health expenditure, which is what is being sedated by a system that is already on its limit. The conclusions are degrading. However, I would like to focus on specific issues and, as the Minister is here, I would like to mention, first of all, culture, the most affected sector of the crisis, where there is absolutely no need for the design and initiatives of substantial support that could deal with the problem. After all, they are being abolished and all the few measures there have been. Also, if we remove the Recovery Fund which is used arbitraryly and in future in every provision to cover the holes created by the Government, the cultural funds are reduced to almost 25 million in the ordinary and 5 million in the Public Investment Programme. Of course, once again, the budget for the expenditure of the Ministry's political leadership offices is increased, a ministry that is embracing the opacity, the manipulation of institutions and the lack of initiatives both in defending the modern culture and its people and in protecting the country's cultural heritage. Sport is likewise identified as a general smuggling, as the sums from the ‘Standard’ taxation in the general budget are summed up for reasons of impression. However, even in the context of this misunderstanding, the fact of the priority support of professional clubs, while amateur sport has not yet been strengthened and undergoed the accumulated blows from the pandemic, while the forecast for sports projects under the Ministry's Public Investment Program is nil. Finally, before I close, I have to make a reference to my region, the Kozani Regional Unit. First of all, I should like to remind you that on 11 August 2020 the horizontal extension of the fair transition clause to all ministries was announced in order to alleviate the cost of transition. Since then, there has been no application of the clause to any bills other than some academic initiatives by the RIS. I repeat, both in the past and today, there has been no special care for western Macedonia for two years, namely by the Prime Minister's announcement of violent and unjust deflation. Two years of deterioration, devaluation, lack of funding and oligopoly for rising unemployment, desertification and population evacuation. Ladies and gentlemen, the international environment is full of uncertainties. In these circumstances, the government remains unreasonable and unreasonable in confirming our criticism that it is moving with its logic "seeing and doing". We don't trust her. Destructive ideas, direct assignments, indifference to the public and the welfare state, education and health, the establishment of a suffocating framework for the control of communications bicycles are a daily life that is not worthy of the country. We don't trust you because you're obsessive and irreparable. I will repeat this in order for every citizen to hear it: the Prime Minister had a study certifying that intubation outside the IMC poses a very high risk to a patient's survival. And while he did nothing to increase them, he came to the House and falsely claimed that there is no such study. In conclusion, we are voting against the budget because we believe it is unfair and incomplete. It will create burdens in difficult conditions, and it does not offer any support to the overwhelming majority of citizens. Unlike the proposal to raise the minimum wage to EUR 800 and to support businesses at the same time from the burden of the pandemic's obligations, they are being disguised in society and we offer solutions for a fair and sustainable transition to the next day. We are sure that, in the coming political developments, this budget will prove to be a bad parentheses, as will all the government's policies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u163	Thank you, Mrs. Vetta. Mr Spyridon Spiritor from New Democracy is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u164	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the 2022 budget lays the foundations for the return of our country, after two difficult years marked by the financial consequences of the pandemic, at a development path. The whole of this period was to support households and businesses in these exceptional circumstances and ensure as fast a recovery as possible. The figures show that within 2021 we will be able to recover more than two thirds of the lost product in 2020, closing at a growth rate of 6.9%, while in 2022 with growth 4.5% we will exceed the Gross Domestic Product of 2019 by 1.7%. For the three years 2020 - 2022 the government has implemented measures totalling EUR 43.3 billion, the third largest support package in Europe as a percentage of Gross Domestic Product against the effects of the pandemic. The government is currently presenting a budget without measures of frugality, with increased revenues resulting from the resumption of the economy and not from new tax burdens. So we remain consistent in our policy that the reduction of burdens and the stimulation of real production and investment are the elements that will bring growth and prosperity for all the years to come. But the horn pandemic in recent years has defined not only economic policy but almost all the agenda in the public debate. The subject that always predominates, again and again in time, is the number of intensive care units, their adequacy and all coexistence with the coronary. If we remember our Prime Minister's speech at the beginning of this month, he quite rightly said that the problem is not the drawers or machines in the units but the staff, and that the problems we have are facing are due to the lack of staffing by health personnel. A few days ago the President of the Greek Intensive Treatment Society Mrs Kotanidou mentioned the mortality rates of intensive care units in our country and showed that these also seem a little increased in relation to the other countries, saying that more intensive treatment unit beds are needed, but more health personnel are needed, to operate the existing beds. Finally, in the last two or three days, it has become a great pretext for public life with this much-discussed article published by Mr Lytras and Mr Tsirdas, which has become a matter of exploitation, in a way, and a debate on various panels, taking away from the conversation, except in substance, some elements of the debate and omissioning a few others. However, what we will see is that the basic substance of this article says the same thing as what the two previous speeches have said, namely that the pressure on the system is linked, in particular, to the adequacy of staff and in this study scientists have shown that even in moderate conditions, these indicators are getting worse. So we can admit that the problem that we are really facing as a society is that there is a great shortage of medical and nursing staff and that may be responsible for these changes that we are seeing and for the problems we currently have with the pandemic. Why is that so? That is what we really need to ask ourselves, and that is where we need to give more emphasis. Maybe because we don't give enough motive to our doctors to stay in the country. Maybe we don't give enough money to the nursing staff so it can finally work. We're up platforms to get applications, but all of them don't put the applications. We're building a health system, we're building a medical training system for our students, and we're making doctors who will eventually serve foreign health systems and too worthwhile. This is a pity for our country, because, after all, we cannot keep our own children. So that is something we should understand as a whole and all together, united, so that we can come to an understanding in this part, to see what we really need to do. All these conditions therefore lead to a conclusion which suggests and requires us, in a way, to restructure our country's health system. It is now time to do this and there are no other excuses. Perhaps this should be done with a consensus of all political parties, so that we can achieve this part. In my opinion, a number of things need to be done, but what must primarily happen is to create a very good health map in the country, which will capture the real health needs in every part of Greece, in infrastructure and staff and the ways that these will be covered, so that there are no inequality in access and also, there are no inequalities and changes, as in the various articles, that there may be a different approach in the region than in the centre. On the basis of this health map, needs will arise by specialisation. Very important. Do we need more intensive, anesthetics, pathologists? We need to define this and we need to find incentives in the end, so that we can drive these young scientists and young doctors to them, so that they can stay in our country. Other important interventions are as follows: we need to intervene in the training of medical staff, continuing training, which should be done on an objective basis. In America, for example, the specialty title must be renewed by written examinations every ten years. We need to find some way to objectively evaluate doctors over time, so that we can maintain a high level at all levels. Another very important thing is health supplies. Others, it's payroll. Also, modernising the health system by logistics, which can often not only be done by the state or the various donations of various people who are willing to do so, but perhaps we should also put the private sector in this part. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And, finally, prevention is very important. Prevention is very important in our country, so that we can deal with the problems that the health system may have. The main prevention element in our time is the coronary vaccine. The whole political leadership and the whole political system should collide in this part and help the world, so that it can lead to vaccination. To close, I would like to say a few things. The government has done everything - in my opinion always - to strengthen both the ERC and the ICM. Doctors have been hired, nurses hired. With the data, therefore, of our country's health system and the available and adequately trained staff, our Government has tried in every way to meet all needs. It is easy to say to build new units, but how easy can it be to manipulate them in two months' time when, really, to train someone and get into the intensive care unit needs at least two years of specialisation? Despite the pandemic, changes have been launched in the field I mentioned, in the mapping of needs, prevention and education. For 2022, the government gives 29% of the recruitments to the health sector. One in three will be for the benefit of the ERC. It is worth EUR 1.5 billion from the Recovery Fund to support, improve and reform primary care in hospitals, prevention and digital health. We have managed to support the health system as far as possible, while setting the foundations for a long-term and holistic reform. This reform cannot take place from one day to the next. It takes time. We don't close our eyes to weaknesses. We are moving directly on to the changes required for the long-term improvement of a health system in our country. We must all contribute to the necessary seriousness and not shoot for a temporary communication benefit. This is an attempt which is reflected in the 2022 budget, which is why I call on you to vote in favour of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u165	Thank you very much, Mr. Spiritual. Merry Christmas. Mr Styliani Mendoni, Minister for Culture and Sport, is being called upon in Step, and I would ask, as far as possible, to keep the time of ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u166	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, traditionally in the budget debate, the performance of the national economy, the numbers accompanying them, the growth of GDP, the forecasts of growth rates, the new announcements from the government's financial staff are of primary concern. It has not yet been realised that the cultural sector is closely linked to the economic parameters, as well as to the direct or indirect growth added value it can give to the national economy. Culture can, by exercising specific public policies, influence the key indicators of the economy and contribute decisively to the growth of national GDP. For 2022, the appropriations for the regular budget of the Ministry of Culture and Sport amount to EUR 338 million and cover in particular expenditure on the protection and promotion of the cultural stock, the operational needs of the archaeological services and grants to the Ministry of Culture for their own operation and programming. The appropriations under the EUR 30 million Public Investment Programme finance projects such as construction, improvement or reorganisation of cultural infrastructure or maintenance and restoration of monuments and archaeological sites. In addition, in 2022 RRF 50 million for development projects and actions of the Ministry are available. In the cultural projects, a total budget of some 600 million euros that have been incorporated into the National Recovery and Resilience Plan "Greece 2.0", I will come back with a special reference, as it is our basic bet and it is neither vague nor cloudy points, but it is very specific projects and actions. For legal persons governed by public and private law, the supervision of the Ministry of Culture is expected to improve the financial result between 2021 and 2022. The improvement will come from the Agency for the Management and Development of Cultural Resources, which is expected to show a positive financial result in 2022, as its revenue is expected to increase. The conditions for the GDR's development potential have been ensured through the institutional framework that we voted on a year ago. The results of its full reorganisation are now visible, despite the fact that the reform was carried out during the pandemic period. I quote only one element. Revenue from museums and archaeological sites in 2021 increased by 300% compared to 2019, although in 2021 we had a 60% reduction in visitors compared to 2019 due to measures to limit the pandemic. We invest EUR 32 million in strengthening trade policy and the digital transformation of the LAG through the Recovery Fund. Since July 2019, we have developed a clear, comprehensive and organised plan for culture. Kyriakos Mitsotakis is the first Prime Minister to integrate the Ministry of Culture into the cycle of productive ministries. Our priority was, alongside issues relating to the sector itself, but also the serious problems that SYRIZA governance has inherited us, the development of public realistic policies with tangible and measurable results in the quality of life of citizens, cultural entrepreneurship, economic development, local, regional and national. In 2019, I mentioned the need to complete important works that were laked and carcinogenic for years, such as the National Gallery, the National Museum of Contemporary Art, the Archaeological Register, a valuable tool for serving citizens and investors. These and many others were completed and delivered functionally. I also referred to the implementation of new major projects of civilization with a social and developmental value, such as the establishment of the Acropolis Acropolis Acropolis, as well as the restoration of the former royal estate in Tatoi, projects that are in full progress with the development of national, Community and private resources and the goal of integration in 2025. For the renovation of the National Archaeological Museum, the international competition of ideas begins in the next period, after private sponsorship was obtained, the precursor studies were completed and institutional issues were resolved, as well as the creation of the Museum of Single Antiquities in Piraeus by the completion, through private sponsorship, of the necessary studies and the integration of the work into the RRF. We are committed to institutional reforms. Some have already been completed, such as the evolution of the former Fund for Archaeological Resources at the Organisation for the Management and Development of Cultural Resources, while others are completely mature to proceed directly to 2022, such as the conversion of the five museums from the Ministry's service units to legal entities governed by public law. We are interested in and we are strengthening the link between culture and economic development and extroversion to strengthen public cooperation with the private sector, to make full use of cooperation with public-private institutions and social corporate responsibility, but also to contribute the cultural sector to the country's overall upswing. The challenge, for us, has been and remains the shift of cultural management policy from the inherited static, dynamic approach and the establishment of the sector in a strategic development resource. That's what we're investing in. We are working systematically to make use of all available resources, national and Union funds, private and public, with a view to strengthening the development potential of culture, ensuring equal access for all to culture, strengthening the synergies and the extroversion of culture. Cultural diplomacy gives firm and effective results at all levels, from international conventions to prevent the illicit trafficking of cultural goods, to strengthen the country's position in international organizations. A characteristic example is the intergovernmental conference of UNESCO on the return of cultural goods to their countries of origin in September, where it took its extremely important decision on the Parthenon Sculptures, but also the election from the first circle of the country to the UNESCO World Heritage Commission after eighteen years. In 2022, we are stepping up our efforts and making use of the already acquired assets. We are working systematically to make effective use of the resources of the co-financed programmes, and this is our top priority. From July 2019 until today they joined the NSRP 2014 - 2020 a hundred ninety new projects, an increase of 110.1% compared to five years 2015 - 2019. Total legal commitments doubled 104.6% compared to 2015- 2019, while expenditure increased by 180.9 compared to the same five years. The definition of project integration is speeding up. At the same time, we are systematically preparing for the financial period 2021 - 2027. That is our attempt under "Greece 2.0". We have ensured funding through the RRF for the necessary reforms in the cultural and creative sector to strengthen and strengthen its resilience, which has been tested very much because of the pandemic, despite the relief measures taken by the government since the first moment, but also for the implementation of innovative actions and projects in the context of sustainable development, such as the national plan to address the consequences of the climate crisis on cultural heritage and a series of prevention and protection projects from extreme weather phenomena in major archaeological sites, cultural prescribing, revitalisation and promotion of crafts, strengthening the'surface economy' through actions and culture projects. In 2022, it is the year most of these projects begin dynamically. From our cooperation with the private sector on criteria and conditions which the public is imposing, the results are immediate and tangible. Upgrade the services provided and ensure full accessibility to the Acropolis, boost the projects in Tatoi, a digital applications program and an increased reality in Ancient Olympia, mature studies of new cultural infrastructures, restore and exploit a building stock on the urban fabric for new uses. It is internationally accepted that the private sector can contribute catalyticly to the development of culture. We gave priority to our cooperation with Local and Regional Government as well as with our university institutions, making full use of the tool of cultural development projects. Over the last seventeen months more than two hundred programming contracts have been signed, strengthening our resources with EUR 100 million, satisfying the well-established demands of local societies with visible results. We have the same program for 2022. In this way, we are substantially increasing the resources for culture. Today, archaeological services carry out critical excavatory work in a number of public works by third parties, ministries, local authorities, public companies, a total budget of over 60 million. It is worth noting that, through these projects, the programming contracts and the projects carried out under the ESDP, which are carried out by self-determination, some four thousand jobs have been created. If this number is added to the number of people employed by contractors, it is easy to understand the sector's contribution to strengthening employment, and that is why we are absolutely interested in the use of the last euro. In 2022, the Ministry of Culture delivers functionally, new museums such as Chania, Aegeans, Mesaras in Crete, Samothrace and others, and works are launched in all major archaeological sites. The definite contribution of the Ministry of Culture and the licensing of large private investments that the country needed and needed, but also large public works of general interest that had huge delays. Top examples are the Greek and metro metro of Thessaloniki. In 2023, Thessaloniki will have a modern metropolitan railroad and a unique station - museum. For the next two years, the objectives and the conduct of the Ministry's public policies fall within the general government's planning. We are capitalising the potential of culture in sustainable development and in the redefinition of the country's economic and productive model. Ladies and gentlemen, with what I have just said, I think I have demonstrated that we have done our commitments in a system, persistence and methodical manner and that we have done our utmost to ensure that there is no regularity. Culture is the fourth pillar of sustainable development, it is a strategic, development resource. All over the territory, smaller or larger projects are carried out, making the most of all available financial instruments. At the Ministry of Culture we are trying with our policies, actions and projects to contribute increasingly to the growth of GDP, to achieve the objective of self-financed culture that we have set in the first place. Our main concern is to implement actions that are realistic, developmental, pro-investing, reforming, flexible and socially fair. Following this, honourable Members, I urge you to vote in favour of the draft law on government budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u167	Thank you too, Minister. The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Tsakalotos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u168	Thank you, Mr President. I would not take the floor, but I was impressed by the introduction of the Minister. He said we haven't figured out how much culture contributes to the economy. If Mr. Skeylakis or Mr. Besiropoulos were to call it economists, let me understand. But the Minister of Culture? So, if we had a study that said we didn't contribute - which I don't believe - would you say we don't need culture? Is that culture? Is culture just to increase GDP? Is culture not for people to have critical thoughts, to understand reality, to have empathy? I suggest that for your holidays you read Rowan Williams, the former archbishop of Canterbury, which tells how much in the pandemic we need theatre. We need the theatre because it's a way to understand the reality, what happens to us in relation to what had happened to us before, and what we can do. And you have given nothing to the theatre people since December 2020. You have destroyed and you want to destroy our cultural heritage with the Venizelos station. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] You haven't answered sixty-seven teachers from Princeton, from Sorbonne, from Oxford, who say it's a crime. You have not tried to clean up the Solidarity Fund, but you are punishing those who took it and continue to put it in the band. But it is not just the economic importance. And I think, Minister, that you were a very good relocation from the centre-left for Mr Mitsotakis, because you are a Minister of Culture who knows the honor of all things and the value of anyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u169	Please! Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u170	It is clear that either you did not really understand - I do not have the requirement - or you do not want to understand, which I think is possible. You did not realize that in the first paragraph of what I said - to take it into account - the word "speaking" - I, too, spoke to you - about what is going on in a budget debate, not about what culture is. And I repeat that, obviously, there is still no conscience to everyone that the cultural sector is closely linked to the economy. Because if this had become a consciousness, you would have had other policies in the five years of your governance, which were not aware of, that you have made catastrophic policies, which you did not just support from indifference, that you did not go ahead with the projects in the NRP, which did not claim any further development funds and programmes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u171	You're saying that you're paroled.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u172	So that proves you probably don't understand much. As for what you are used to - and you are very pleased to say - that this government did not support...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u173	Please, the Minister speaks. What if you don't listen to her? [[Noise in the Chamber]] Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u174	So with what you repeat, I say that the government did not support people of culture at all in pandemic, that this government has included all the professionals of culture in the measures, which is why the entire aid has exceeded 500,000 000. The support therefore exists. And just because we want to give even greater support, we have secured 200,000 for the creative and cultural sector from the Recovery Fund to correct the pathogens that your own governance put under the carpet. The pandemic took them off. You know very well that they are decades of pathogens and we are now coming to resolve them. As for the Thessaloniki metro, as the court proceedings are under way, I don't want to say any more. Do not use people who have not been informed or misinformed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u175	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u176	The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative Mr Brutsi has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u177	Mr President, I take the floor because I must morally address an issue that I personally know in my previous capacity as a former Minister of Labour. I would like to assure you that the Ministry of Culture through Ms. Mendoni, in cooperation with the Ministry of Labour, Mr. Tsakalotos, took initiatives in this difficult environment and supported the world of culture as before. Secondly, in the capacity of the Member of the Cyclades Law, I would also like to assure you of something I personally know. The Cyclades, the cradle of our country's culture, have for many years been forgotten. And I know that as a Member of Parliament in this particular prefecture. Mr President, the Cyclades, the archaeological monuments, the Byzantine monuments, all of these, have been raised and supported for the first time by the government through the Ministry of Culture. Madam Minister, thank you very much. This is the first time that I have had the opportunity to do so in public. Thank you very much on behalf of the Cyclades Prefecture, the Cycladics, for your great contribution, for the love and support of the archaeological and Byzantine monuments in the Cyclades. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u178	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u179	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u180	No, Mr. Colleague, we're not going to do this.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u181	It sounds like things don't work.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u182	Please. Mr Nektarios Santorinios has the floor from SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance. I shall then give the floor to Mr Papadimitriou and then to the Minister, Mr Karamanlis. Here, Mr. Santorinier, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u183	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating a budget which has been made by a government which is negative of reality. It is a budget off-site and time, away from the data of the time, away from the needs of the time, a budget that considers the end of the pandemic when it begins in 2022, which considers that the wave of accuracy and appreciation, the increase in energy costs are transient, will pass. Is it possible in time for a pandemic to reduce the health budget for a second consecutive year? It is now clear that your obsessed with the dissolution of the ESS as you had expressed it, and in the run-up to the election - from this Step had been expressed by the Prime Minister himself - not even stopped in the face of this global challenge. You do not understand that today you need to strengthen the public health system, because for you a well-trained ESS is a luxury. Mr. Scorchos said so. For you, the pandemic in your destructive plans to privatize health is parentheses. That's why you don't even go on permanent recruitment of doctors currently on the intake lists, because you're afraid they're staying in the health system and what you're going to do after the pandemic. Because I saw Mrs Gaga here a moment ago, I would like to ask you: are you really aware of what is going on in the Dodecanese hospitals? Do you know that on Tuesday he died of a heart disease because there was no on-call doctor in Kalymnos? Do you know that Kos has given up the pathologist and no one can do chemo? Do you know that in Rhodes right now, we have more than a thousand regular surgerys that aren't done? Do you know all this and you can be quiet? The study Chiodra - Lytra proves that we have a prime minister negative of reality and science. He had the study in his hands, when he was asking us whether we have any evidence of the intubated outside of the ICM are at the same risk as those within the ICM. Did he need a study about it? Why are the ITHs? Otherwise, we'd all be invaded outside of the ICU, and anyway, Mr. Sotiris Tsiodras isn't talking to Mr. Mitsotakis? He didn't say to him, "You know, I have a study in my hands." The budget you are presenting to us gives evidence of recovery after the appalling recession, particularly in 2020. But it is not a budget for sustainable development. The crucial issue is whether this recovery will be inclusive, that is to say, the whole of society, the majority of citizens, households, businesses, or whether it will be a few people who have managed to increase their profits within the pandemic. But why are the budget you're tabling for us is out of place and time? Why don't you know? Because the commitments you have made for budgetary adjustment with the medium-term adopted in June 2022 have a huge budgetary adjustment of nine percentage points for 2022 and 2023. A financial adjustment that is only similar to the 2013 hard memorandum period. The growth you anticipate will come out of taxes through the citizens' pockets. Today, in order to address the scale of accuracy, to strengthen households and businesses, it is imperative to reduce excise duties on all fuels. It is imperative to increase the minimum wage to EUR 800. Not half a pouches a day, as you have announced, because that is what other European countries have done as a wave of stirring to accuracy. But you will allow me to go through the budget referred to in the Ministry of Shipping. It is the epitome of "communication and not substance". The epitome! We heard the Minister yesterday arranging figures and programmes, but there are not even a budget line. We are talking about the coastline and he told us that funds from the NSRF have been provided. Search the budget, there's no euro. What's going on? The budget of the barren lines is reduced to a historic low of EUR 50.6 million, while the commitments are EUR 130 million. Last year it was 71 million, we pointed it out to you and told you that the budget did not come out. Result? Sixty million currently owes the Ministry of Shipping to ferry companies. And I'm talking about small ferry companies that don't have to put oil. The Minister presented us with projects in the ports of the country, which will, however, be carried out by the local authorities and the municipal port funds. Because the Ministry's budget records 4.4 million. That's it. It is 4,4 million not for new projects, but for improvements, when we in the last two years of government have given us 12 million for improvements every year. But even worse, it is the deception and mockery made by the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy on the islands. For eight months he hasn't paid the transport equivalent. For eight months she's been mocking them and discovering that she'll find some remains from the Public Investment Program now in the gatherings - for their islanders, for remains - to pay them half of what she owes them, while in business she's been paying the transport equivalent for a year. At the same time, you abolished the fuel pillar, which today, especially during this period, was 22 minutes less costing the pump. Do you know what this means for small islands that currently have 2 euros and 2,10 euros in the fuel pump? Do you know how important it was? But that's not all. In the already reduced budget of 23 million, while the transport equivalent needs at least 100 million euros, Mr Brutsi, you also put all the actions of the new integrated maritime policy programme, which has brought with laurels but no money. He's doing it at the already 23 million euros. What's he gonna pay? I don't know, communication and not substance. In fact, the Minister told us that the Recovery Fund will also finance a study on the green transition of ships. A study we started with the Navy Chamber of Commerce. It costs 1 million. Find you in the shipping ministry's budget even 1 euro from the Recovery Fund. Not even 1 euro! And that's a lie! We also see, of course, in the budget that the competition procedures for regional ports are described, but there are no budgets. Because you don't care about the budget, you don't care if it takes the state, the friends and the friends to do their jobs, that's what you're interested in. In conclusion, Mr Vésyropoulos, you have not answered me in committee, but I will raise the matter again. Mr. Vesyropoulos is not here, but I'm going to put the matter again. I raise the issue of reduced VAT rates. You have come and told us that since 2025 we will have reduced rates of VAT on the islands, because then it says that the new directive will be implemented. But today there's a directive. Article 120 of Directive 112 of 2006 allows for reduced rates of VAT on the islands. The taxes of EUR 3.5 billion are increasing. Can you not make a policy which reinforces the businesses that run, especially from the pandemic, on our islands? Either you do it now or political arrogance is out of hand and political will is missing! After all, this budget will be the last to be tabled by your government, because very soon the citizens will make you off. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u184	Thank you very much, Mr Santorinier. Mr Charalambos Papademitriou from New Democracy is called to Stepma and will be followed by the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr Karamanlis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u185	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget is one of the main instruments with which the country gains the confidence of its citizens, namely taxpayers, first of all, because it must clearly say what taxes it will put and collect, not more. It is also a clear signal to the markets, of which we depend, so that we can finance and refinance the debt. It is also a message of commitment to what the country has promised to succeed - and it succeeds - that what unfortunately has never happened again, unfortunately, at least twice in previous years, with the appalling consequences for our people, namely, loss of credibility. Loss of credibility, loss of confidence, is the most important issue in an economic policy. Especially in fiscal policy, when you look at time a little longer. We're looking at him until 2023, at least. For with regard to the off which my colleague said earlier - obviously his eyes were tied up when he was pressed by the people - I would like to say that the people, rightly so, are pressing off on populism and he has been on it a long time ago. And as much as you're trying to fight through situations that only harm the country, they only increase the stress of the people, who face a very difficult situation, but that's how far you're going. As much as you do this, the people will be pressed off by 2023 and we'll see for later. Reliability and trust are something that is difficult to build, but it is very easy to lose. Mr Tsakalotos could explain - and I hope he will do so one day when he has the opportunity to speak frankly and not be limited by the party specter. Mr Tsakalotos has gathered in about four years, three and a half years, about EUR 28 billion surplus, obviously with taxes. With a lot of taxes, with too many taxes. On the contrary, in those three years the Government of New Democracy was able to write a deficit first of all. Because there was pandemic, otherwise we could go faster and in the pandemic it continued to reduce taxes, that is to say, as far as possible to reduce the tax burden. Three units in mandatory bookings are not easily reduced. Reductions in taxes and, above all, in basic taxes, on the first stage, it is not easy. Reducing the EMIS is not easy in the circumstances that we are facing. However, despite the fact that it became unusual, a so-called left-wing government to make surpluses against taxpayers and a centre-right government to use the instrument of funding through budgets to keep the country up, the markets during this period made Greece very close to the degree of investment credibility that we need. We wouldn't have lost him as we lost him through our hands. Because - as we agreed - we would not take him in 2015, but in 2016, in 2017 at the latest we would have received the degree of investment credibility, i.e. we would have won four to five years. However, the markets trust the country. Why are they doing it? They do it for two reasons. Firstly, they realise that in the triumph of the pandemic this ship, which writes "Greece" on the bow, sails with some stability, with some credibility, with some optimism, which you are trying to hurt at the slightest opportunity. So, in short, trust is maintained in the country at the most difficult time. And if anything, if you had a little bit of your mind focused on the big issues, you wouldn't run behind anything that increases the populism that led you to something that also led to a tragic moment. I sincerely say it, I have already said it publicly, I was sad when Mr Kourublis arrived at this minimum point. He's a remarkable man, a trade unionist, a MP, your minister. He shouldn't have arrived there. But your mind was there. You pushed him, and Mr. Tsipras, half an hour after a current study has been commonly known. It is a study of these many things that are being done and I hope that there will be a lot more in depth to see all the problems in their real dimensions. It must not choke the science and the need for a statistical study of infectious developments this involvement of science with populism, with which the Opposition is going. Within half an hour, Mr. Tsipras had already tweeted and started the curse. How can the Kurublis not get there? And he was avenged. Reliability is therefore the most important. Trust is what we need and what we have. If you hadn't had, gentlemen of Officers, your mind at what I said before, you would have noticed that yesterday was extremely important, something that you almost hoped wouldn't happen, since you said we were going to hit. And yet we're not screwed. The European Central Bank said "You have time. You have this time, next year and 2023. You have time." Why do you have him? 'Because you're doing the job right'. And what's the main job? The reform and compliance with the agreements in budgetary matters. We too respect the agreements that we make, and that is why we are going slowly to some things and say what you want Greece is breathing. Greece yesterday achieved something that was not easy at all. It's the work of the financial staff. It is the work of Giannis Stournaras, the governor of the Bank of Greece. For which Yannis Stournaras and for the night before that, a major contributor, who still enjoys the trust of your Chief, said he did unacceptable things, found himself with judges to harm Mr Stournara's family honor. He did it. And together, we should always mention it, the officials and staff who manage the debt, who are excellent and thank God do their job well. And since I spoke to Mr Tsakalotos, I really hope that he will once write all these things to tell us what he has been through. The difficulties she has encountered, and in part from what I understand, and I rather understand them well, she continues to pass, as anyone in the SYRIZA wants to be very realistic. Not everything about populism. It is the only basic error the country makes. The only threat that this country has at the moment is that there is a case, because of the mere analogy, to find ourselves in a turbulence in which the country might find itself involved. I hope that the people are so wise that we can get through this easily. By then, we will have won more points in the effort that is being done, and I hope that things will go well enough on the main front that we are facing right now, which is to overcome the disease and its threats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u186	Thank you, too. The Minister for Infrastructure and Transport Mr Konstantinos Karamanlis is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u187	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the budget that we are debating these days confirms one thing, that Greece has now entered the path of growth. For example, in order to avoid our country, with a New Democracy Government, an example has been made of the European Union. And that is not what we are saying, all of Europe is talking about. This is due to the Government of New Democracy and I would say that it is personally credited to the Prime Minister himself, Mr Mitsotakis. The only people who do not recognize this are those who insist on the logic of the mixed opposition. Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, every success you make is that you do not see it and for every complex problem you have no proposal at all. You have chosen the path of toxic and structural opposition. But the reality has gone beyond you. The Greek people now know that your big words today are tomorrow's next delusion. So the government is working with a plan, and that is what we have been doing since the first day in the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport. We are investing in work and not in large words, which produces results over time. The debate today requires that we speak with concrete elements, not with great words, but with elements which cannot be called into question. So what did we receive? What have we done and what are we planning to do? Let's get them in order. In the infrastructure sector, this government is investing. It invests because, first, they solve major problems and make the daily lives of the citizens better, and secondly, they boost growth since they have a high multiplier in the economy. The first thing we have decided to do is to change the logic with which public procurement and public works are carried out in our country, starting from the basic, from the legislative framework. We've received a law, SYRIZA's Law-4412. This law was amended by the previous government not one or two, but almost three hundred times. The changes made by our government, by Mr L.4782, constituted a reform with clear objectives: projects and competitions at greater speed, with greater efficiency, better quality and lower cost. At the same time, however, we have also brought a significant - I would say - a change of attitude. Contrary to what has happened in the past, this government is no longer announcing a project unless it has two basic features: guaranteed funding and a specific timetable. However, we have also made another crucial decision to put an end to the logic of making the Scorpions projects, fragmentary, without any strategy, without any national planning. On the contrary, all projects are part of a coherent plan. We are not improvising this government, and I will give you an example, ladies and gentlemen. Rail transport. We have already tendered for the largest rail project programme that has been done in recent years in our country of ECU 4 billion. Euros so that Greece will become after the coming of 'COSCO' in 2008, a modern East European infrastructure and transport hub, a logistics hub, with what this implies for the economy. At the same time, we streamline the operation of the OSE and the "ERGOSE" and move on to a major change in a major reform section. In consultation with the European Commission, we are always changing the process of producing railway projects. We are introducing the process of study and competitive dialogue. We are therefore putting an end to the fragmentation of the delayed projects, which have brought additional contracts and which have never been implemented. So what do the numbers say? Of the 13 billion ecus We have agreed to two and a half years of EUR 3.2 billion. When the previous government had barely met 800 million projects. And we don't stop here. We are running for projects of another ECU 5.5 billion. The six flag rail projects amounting to ECU 4 billion have already been completed. Projects to change the transport map in Greece have already been auctioned. In the next few weeks we have been waiting for binding offers for the BOAK, Flyover, Kalamata - Rizzomylos PPPs. The Chalkida bypass will be auctioned with money from the NSRF, as we do with other projects. We are also opening a very important project in Attica, the Kymi Avenue and Bralos - Amphissa. We are moving forward at this rate, which is perhaps from the very few times that the construction industry is going to make progress on the projects that are being auctioned by the Ministry. To do this project plan, therefore, we unlocked but emblematic works. After a painful effort, and two days ago we received the definitive green light from the European Commission on the multitude of Patras - Tower, a project that, after SYRIZA's adventures with the known partitions and the well-known pastures, was in danger of never becoming. We have therefore solved a periodic outstanding issue, always in consultation with Europeans. We signed the amendment to the concession agreement the day before yesterday. On 22 December the Greek Parliament will come for approval. The project returns to the ‘Olympia road’ and will be implemented more quickly, at a lower cost and with absolute transparency. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] In central Greece, we have already released the first fourteen kilometers of the southern part of E65 and started construction of the northern axis with guaranteed funding from the Recovery Fund. In Crete, we have had problems over years. We unlock the BOAK, and we implement the great flagship work at the airport in Kastelli. In Thriasio, we are creating the most modern freight centre, after we have taken it out of SYRIZA's criminal errors and managed to save the financial adjustment, which was a risk. And the works of Alexandroupolis, a very large package of projects, now make this remote area a strategic hub. But we don't stop there. We need counter-military operations worth 1.5 billion. The euro is already in operation with guaranteed funding. Water resources management projects, so-called 'green' projects, the new generation' projects have already been integrated into the Recovery Fund. Of course, we did another big change. We have found and put an end to the great adventure and openness with the EYDAP, namely the agreement between Greek public authorities, consumers and shareholders. Thus the Greek State is now recovering the money due by HSY for the price of unrefined water for the period from 2013 to 2020. One hundred and fifty-seven million are going back to the public funds and we are opening the way so that further investment in the EEAS can be made possible. I will also stand up to another great success of the government, the concession of the Egnatia road, compared with ECU 1.5 billion. EUR 2.7 billion and with a total benefit for the Greek State of EUR 2.7 billion, a great deal of agreement for the Greek economy. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] And, of course, we're finally putting a solution to the Thessaloniki subway with the S.H.E.'s seal. The metro will be delivered to the Thessalonians in 2023. Kyriakos Mitsotakis will not inaugurate mustaches. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Nor will you see the comedy images boarding Prime Minister on trains that have no rails. Finally, the mocking! Spaces are already being released again in the co-chair who has been occupied by construction sites for years. In a few years, then, the co-chair will be another city, by subway, with Flyover, with the new buses that are already on the streets of Thessaloniki and a modern port. But in Athens, after so many years, the flagship work of Line 4, finally begins. It also forms part of a comprehensive plan. Because if we do not now anticipate solutions for the big city, for our capital, in five to ten years the traffic situation will be unbearable. So what do we do? Along with the extension of the metro to Line 4 to Piraeus and to the south, together with the strengthening of urban transport, we work to implement the so-called Attica projects. I know the extension of Kymi, which, as I said, is being auctioned in the next few days, the extensions of the Attica Road in Lavrio and Rafina, as well as a project that will give access to the southern suburbs and will help the investment of the Greek, which is at the stage of the premeditation and is the so-called Ilioupoli tunnel. With a view to future needs, these are essential projects for Attica. I shall also refer to the transport section. Urban transport. You know, the same ones who questioned the great plan we had for the 13 billion projects. The euros, they systematically bolted for public transport. So let's see the evidence here. Reality once again is clear. In Athens we received eight hundred fifty buses in July 2019. Today we have three hundred and twenty buses and we continue to try to reach the thousands of five hundred. That means five thousand more routes. We have reintroduced the systematic presence of auditors, with the additional role of imposing a smooth flow of passengers in urban transport and compliance with the protection measures for COVID. For the first time, we are implementing a pilot project in other countries of Europe. During the peak hours, where the crowd occurs, in real time through the OSH control centre, other buses are inoculated. In Thessaloniki, following the criminal statism by the SYRIZA government, we received 200 thirty-five buses. Now, there's four hundred sixty buses coming out on the streets. In the subway, we've reduced our distances, appreciably. We're right now in thirty-eight trains, in Line 2 and 3, when we received thirty-one trains. In the tram the day before yesterday, the new line started in Piraeus. The line is reopened in the Constitution. The operation was restored to Faliro and we put twenty-five new trains on the network. Overall, the Mitsotakis Government has created a thousand hundred and eighty-eighty new jobs, public and private, and in the midst of a pandemic we are one of the few cities in the European Union that we are raising the fleet of public transport. And we're going on. Why, the competition for new buses, new electric buses, environmentally friendly buses, is in the air with guaranteed funding from both the Recovery Fund and the Community resources. In short, we are implementing our plan: Upgrading fleets, recruitment, learning and partnership with the private sector. Of course, our efforts to improve everyday life have other aspects. I referred to the long-term planning for dealing with traffic. There are, however, what we are doing directly. In addition to strengthening public transport, we started the net ring. We are creating a new coordinating body, which the Association of Greek Transporters has been asking for for years, which with all the representatives of the involved bodies will address this major problem. Now let's go to the institutional initiatives in transport. The most important of these is N.4850 “Driving safely”. We are fundamentally reforming the system of education and examination, driving licences and putting an end to the sad phenomenon of opacity, which did not honor our country. Road safety is also a priority for the Mitsotakis Government. The 'IPBOA' programme is now being implemented by identified interventions of seven thousand points. So today, when we are talking, drivers can cross the national roads and the whole national network, with the same transponder. The next target, for which we are working, is the Greeks and Greeks paying tolls with a proportional kilometre charge. We're also going to the digital state. The Ministry of Transport, a Ministry that had been behind for many years in terms of digitisation, is already moving on. New versions and replacements of driving licences can now be digitalised with new electronic services. The same applies to the granting of a copy of a marketing authorisation, as to other documents such as the ring licence. Very soon, together with the Ministry of Digital Policy, we will present a digital "car wallet", in which there will be all the elements needed by a driver in his car. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Mr President, thank you for your tolerance. I know I've been over my time. But that is the size of the Ministry, which, as it turns out, I will not be able to cover other aspects. Think about it. From dealing with natural disasters, which are next to other ministries in our fellow citizens, affected by the fires, from earthquakes, from weather to electricity, where here we are implementing a comprehensive plan with the Ministry of the Environment to increase it, from the establishment of the Civil Aviation Authority and its separation from APA to the licensing of water routes, it is not an exaggeration to say that in these two and a half years things have been done that have not been done for many years. Everything we do and everything we plan for the next few years has been central to Greece and the Greeks. And everything serves two very large goals: development and best everyday life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u188	And we thank the Minister. Please take care of the Step in order to get SYRIZA MEP Mr. Yiannis Drasakis to speak. Mr. Drasakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u189	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to some of the threats and contradictions that, in our view, the budget contains. And I will do so because I think it is useful to hear them in this Chamber, even if they are not confirmed. The main contradiction in the budget is that, while it recognises that we are in an environment of extreme uncertainty, it also discounts the positive outcome of all developments in their most optimistic, even version. That is right, the question has already been raised, if this very optimistic forecast of developments is not confirmed, what is the government's alternative? The budget thus hides problems, risks and threats that the country faces from both external factors and government policy itself. Some hypocritical differences between Mr Stakoura and I do not think they change the overall picture. The Government of New Democracy seems to have learned no lessons from the bankruptcy of the country and the causes that led to it. The Prime Minister, in particular, is not even referring to the fact that this country has been bankrupt. Like it didn't exist! Because problems for him begin in 2015. He came to say that "SYRIZA brought us the memorials". On the same tébo, the majority rapporteur, Mr Rousopoulos, saw in his written suggestion that the New Democracy Government created the pillow, with which we are standing. So it seems that the greater the government’s failures, the greater the need to lie and even greater and more lies. The first danger, therefore, that this budget represents is the reassurance that it cultivates, at a time when it requires truths, self-awareness and not false beauty. The second danger concerns the abandonment of large parts of society in their luck. As you will see in the budget, the government cuts social transfers by EUR 8.1 billion, without any plans to deal with the consequences. Even if the most optimistic scenario is confirmed, we must bear in mind that the recovery of the economy and incomes will also be unequal between social classes and groups and between sectors and sectors of the economy. So the horizontal and abrupt cut in all this aid, together with the large wave of precision that we are seeing, will leave large parts of society exposed to obligations to which they will not be able to respond, even at the risk of poverty and social exclusion. The third threat lies in the characteristics of the recovery. I have heard so many Members of the majority - and ministers - extinguish the rate of recovery. That's great! What is this recovery, though, where do we have it? First, it's unequal. Secondly, it is accompanied by enlargement of the trade deficit, so it is accompanied by the well-known 'twins' deficits and third and more importantly, it is that the main force for this recovery was borrowing, increasing public debt. Overall - to include optimistic 2022 - it is predicted that by 2020 to 2022 the country's national income will increase EUR 22 billion. At the same time, however, public debt will have increased by 35 trillion euros. Take care, then, of what you exhumed has within a risk that is the increase in public debt. In other words, what we have borrowed does not cover, is more than we produce or we will have produced up to 2022. Loaning, increasing lending, cannot, ladies and gentlemen, be the future of the country. Neither should lending be the main promotional force of an economy nor are the tourism and resources of the Recovery and Resilience Fund sufficient to give the economy dynamism, resilience, perspective, which seems to be an undeniable need to change the country's productive model. The country is therefore faced with a chronic problem - it is not new - which was the root of bankruptcy. We did not have a productive system that could stand up to international competition and the demanding framework of the euro area, without producing crises, deficits and inequality. The previous government had tried, it had started a process to lay the foundations for a change in the development model. But you, Mr. Mitsotakis' government overturned everything. Even a development strategy that we had developed and which was accepted by the Eurogroup has been put aside, you have replaced it by a study by a professor, Mr Pissaridis, who no longer remembers nor is aware of its fate. The fourth threat is, therefore, that the budget, and overall government policy, reproduces old, outdated customer patterns, a "development" of non-sustainable, energy-efficient and unequal. Mr Mitsotakis' government neither wants nor can change the development model. That's what the two years are in the government. The distribution of the recovery fund's resources clearly shows its ties, its work with the country's established interests, and the neoliberal ideas to which it is still obeying it convinces that this change is not necessary or will automatically be made by the markets. Anyone who does not feel does not realize that this is a maximum risk to the country is making a big mistake. Ladies and gentlemen, the problems cannot be overcome by communication techniques, where they baptise right-wing political progress. These concern the writers who write them and those who hear them. That is why social discontent increases. The Stock Exchange is being hanged, the credit ratings are being delayed, and the messages from Brussels and Frankfurt that our colleague was telling us before have more and more asterisks. Anyone who does not see them will suffer the consequences. But not social democracy, as we have known, has answers. We must not lose sight of the fact that Europe of austerity and inequality is the result, of course, of the neoliberal Washington Convention, with the critical contribution of social democracy. The answer to the problems of this time lies in a wide-ranging social and political alliance that is its main expression, whether it pleases some or not, in our country is the SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance. But there is space, we stress, and a role for those who are redefined on the basis of the future and not the past, who are clearly placed in the dilemmas of our time and who are placed in practice on the progressive side of history. Because, the dividing line between the Left and the Right, progress and maintenance is not only there but it becomes more vital nowadays, I would say, more critical content. The strengthening of the public health and education system, the liberalisation of the vaccine patent, which is the only way to get the whole world rid of the pandemic, a new concept of the role of work in the creation of wealth and, of course, a substantial direct increase in the minimum wage, support and expansion of the social state, free access to public goods and those that are not insured, particularly in the health goods that you have cut it down, the fight against old and new inequalities and discrimination are a few wastes of hope, I would say, which we see are expanded in several parts of the world today, but are also the landmarks on which the political forces and the dividing lines are now internationally being reconstructed. The budget with its uncertainties, with its threats and the dangers of its implementation, underlines the urgent nature of the necessary shift in the hope of radical progressive change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u190	And we thank Mr. Drasakis. The speaker of the Change Movement and Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Constantinople, has the floor. And until he comes to Stepma to say that at about the same time you have said the five parliamentary representatives other than Mr Gregoriadis that you want to take the floor. Perhaps you should alternate with some MPs. There are about eight, nine fellow Members left. I should like to say not only to start a list of parliamentary representatives. As the Ministers have rotated, the parliamentary representatives should be changed. That is why I would strongly urge you to slowly begin, slowly with the usual practice, from the smaller to the larger parties, the parliamentary representatives to ask for the floor so that they can get into this programming.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u191	With this change, Mr President, although I had asked for the floor at six o'clock this afternoon, I will speak at eight to eight and a half.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u192	Let me give you the floor then and now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u193	If it starts at the smaller parties and we have an emblem of MPs...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u194	You want the floor after Mr. Constantinople? Let me give him to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u195	At six o'clock this afternoon, I asked.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u196	Okay. You have the floor immediately afterwards. I said she's used to it. In any case, however, if Parliamentary spokesman for a larger parliamentary group takes the lead. And so go ahead, Mr. Chaakalot. You will take the floor after Mr. Constantinople. Mr. Constantinople, here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u197	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, a few days ago, seventy thousand people ordered PASOK and Nikos Androullakis to move politically forward, autonomously and with a political compass of social democracy. And I am glad to hear Mr Drasakis say that social democracy does not have many answers. It is important to speak ideologically against the Left and the Right that social democracy returns throughout Europe, with Mr Solts in Germany, Spain, Denmark, etc. Why is he coming back? None of the old leaders were resurrected. It returns because social democracy has answers and tools to deal with the multiple crises. We therefore welcome the fact that there will be a serious ideological battle between the left and the right for the policies that we can and will be able to respond to the problems of the citizens. But let's start with the proverb. What did the pandemic prove? The need for the National Health System, a reform of social democracy and PASOK, which needs to be strengthened. A second point which has shown in recent years is the fear of political costs. On the one hand it's the political cost of the other human life. We have a government that has delayed taking steps, something we have been talking about since May, about the mandatoryity of special groups, so that we can not punish them but to protect them - thought about it after eight months - and a Visual Opposition that up to the last minute - a part of the Officerial Opposition to be honest, but part of the leadership - says even today that “the vaccines do not catch all the mutations, so why do you do it”. The interesting thing is that even in an internal process we are, the new President spoke very clearly about what we need to do and whoever sees the European evidence will understand that if we had 10% more vaccinations we would have reduced deaths by 30%. So instead of closing the eye left and right into this group, it is better to protect them. And we are now coming to the well-known Tsiodra - Lytra study which highlighted the disparities existing in the national health system between the centre and the periphery. A while ago, Mr. Chiodras was reliable for the New Democracy. I saw Mrs. Gaga and Mr. Mayorcin say that it's not a reliable study, but only you hadn't made a statue for him. And now where SYRIZA was, and he's been calling Mr. Chiodra unreliable, he's building his own statue. We see Mr. Chiodra as a scientist, so we evaluate him. So don't use - either right or left - the scientists for you. Ladies and gentlemen, we want in our new beginning to make effective opposition with criticism and proposals. We define ourselves on the basis of social democracy policies. We do not have the stress of the equal distances caused by the media and other interests. And, unfortunately, in this civil war climate set up by New Democracy and SYRIZA, we are losing opportunities to save human lives one after another. In the budget two days now instead of talking about how we will deal with the accuracy due to the increase in energy prices for households and businesses, we are mainly dealing with - this is a gift from SYRIZA to New Democracy - not with Mr Kurublis - but with whether he should also delete Mr Polakis. It's a civil-war climate without substance that only concerns the 20:00 issues and Twitter. Ladies and gentlemen, we are interested in citizens trusting us as social democrats and believing that green growth is about the most vulnerable and not the few and great interests, enabling businesses to reduce costs and their vulnerable households to have incomes through photovoltaics. But, Minister, Mr. Pharakakis, you are here, talking to us about the one-way that the Recovery Fund should have. And here there's a difference. In Portugal, the Social Democratic Party made use of money from the Recovery Fund to support demographic policies. You know that, Mr. Dog, that? You know they make homes from the Recovery Fund to give them to new couples so they can create families? You told us here that there was no such thing. But how did the Portuguese do it? How did they use these resources? This is the difference in social democracy. We as Social Democrats will fight in Europe for the state of the austerity pact and there our President will give the PES the battles. We have to say clearly, however, even to our allies, and we have done so, ladies and gentlemen. Nikos Androylakis went to the European socialists yesterday and told the Spanish Prime Minister to Sanchez in front of - not secretly, but evidently - that Spain cannot sell arms to Turkey so it creates a financial problem which is unbearable for the Greeks. We did it. The rest of you will do it? And you will allow me to conclude with the polls. The polls that come out of publicity make us happy, but we don't fly to the clouds. We know the expectations of the world and we want them to know that we will fight with all our forces to live a PASOK government again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u198	We thank Mr Constantinople and the consistency of time. Now, as I said before, the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative Mr Tsakalotos will take the floor. Immediately after, as had been arranged earlier, Mr Varvitsiotis, the Minister, will speak. There are still ten Members who will speak in between to parliamentarians one or two Members. I want us to get together in the best way. Mr Simopoulos and Mr Polakis will then speak, and if colleagues accept it, the Parliamentary Representative of the CSCE, Mr Pafilis, will take the lead, despite the fact that Mr Brutsis from New Democracy has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u199	Mr President, because there was a programming before you came. Mr. Chakalotos is currently on his way to Step. We agree. Mr Varvitsiotis will be followed, as you said, by two Members, and of course Mr Pafilis will take my place and then I will.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u200	It is a very nice, compromised proposal, although we are wronged by a little by Mr Pafile. I would also like to ask you, because there will be a two-year term of office of the Parliamentary Representatives tomorrow, today you will only speak your protagonists on a leniency, as always. Mr. Chaakalot, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u201	Mr. Karamanlis spoke 80% more than his time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u202	Don't make comparisons because I have evidence. I hadn't put the clock on Mr. Drasakis for two minutes and talked up to ten minutes, but we don't say it. You have the floor, so we don't waste time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u203	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to start with the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Roussopoulos, and say to him: You have a problem. And because I'm a good man, I'm gonna explain the problem and two alternatives, even what I'm proposing between the two solutions. You said that we would have 7% growth and the problem with this is Mr. Skeylakakis, because Mr. Skeylakakis explained why we cannot increase the minimum wage twice as growth was said: other recovery, growth. So I suggest two solutions. Either you go with the Humour of the Ionian Islands and say: "I said, prick and shit in the reason I gave" or say there's no growth in 2022, it's just a recovery. I suggest you first, say: "Unfortunately we are neoliberal and cannot increase the minimum wage", while all other countries other than Estonia do so, rather than support an economic theory of Mr. Secondly, as to how gradual the adjustment is, you told us that it was gradual. I know and you know I know my Greeks aren't very good. But when the deficit is reduced from 7.3 to 1.2, believe me as an economist that this is not gradual, it is very large, 6 percentage points. And this when Mr. Drasakis explained to you all the risks we have ahead. He did not say about 'Omicon', but also about other risks. At a time when the European Union is not pushing you, why does the Stability Pact not apply, we ask: why is this violent adjustment and could not have been more gradual, since this restriction does not exist? You told us that the credibility of the country was neither the pillow nor Lagard, nor the Recovery Fund, nor the debt structure that we have achieved, but was the "Metsotakis effect". Isn't that what you were telling us? If there is this 'Metsotakis effect', the effect of Mr Mitsotakis, why do we have to prove that we are credible and make such a quick adjustment? Let's go on a similar subject. You're saying you're going well. You say - and Mr Stakoras says - that you are trustworthy, serious, responsible, insightful and much more. He doesn't say the word humble, because I don't think Mr. Stakoura's mother would say that he's humble or that humility is his main feature. Of course, it takes an example from the Prime Minister of this deficit. How did you keep the country up? You kept her because you lowered the profit tax? You kept her because you reduced the tax on people who want to make a legacy of up to 800,000? Are you kidding? And you've become Kenyans, because you're doing great interventions, classic Kenyan politicians, but one difference. There is no socialism without helping wage-earning, without education, without forest protection, without health. Candidates without a social state. That is why we question the sustainability of this budget, because you have forgotten what Keynshianism was in his golden age. And since the last thing I said was for health, three brief comments on the whole fight for Mr. Chiodra and Mr. Lytra and Mr. Mitsotakis. Mr. Mitsotakis hasn't answered us. Mr. Lytras cleared him. He said he went to the highest level. Unless the maximum level is the clerk of the Ministry of Health, which I can't imagine Mr. Lytras means that. Mr. Mitsotakis knew. Second element. If he knew or should have known, why didn't you invest in the health system? And for what you knew back then and now that you know 'Omicon'. I listened carefully to Mr. Spiritual. Mr. Spiritual made a list of things that the health system needs. Then, of course, he had a conclusion that you were going well, but read all of his talk. Thirdly, where Mr Constantinople put it. You know that in relation to who's inside ICU and who's out of ICU, ICU deaths have a serious regional dimension. If he's a lucky man, and he's in the Triangle Queen of Wisdom, Wudy, and the Mediterranean, he has a huge potential to survive than if he is in the province. Isn't that a problem? We are talking about regional disparities along with all other disparities. You - who are here New Democracy MPs from the province? - are you not concerned that in regional hospitals the possibility of dying within ICU is far greater than it is in this triangle? Aren't you worried? As parliamentarians of the province, what do you say when they hear what I said? I think I can prove that here we have two worlds, two plans, two strategies. You are the 'business as us'. We do not face the inequalities, nor the regional I have just said, we do not build a new RS, we remain in the policies that have brought us here. We have a very clear picture that we want the economy and society to be in four to five years' time. And precisely because we have this picture where we want to be in four to five years, we can also talk about what needs to be done now tomorrow and 2022. We want a state that plans together with society for society, which does not deal with the fair transition to Kozani and frustration by building a private body in Athens that is not part of the region at all, but a state that knows how to manage the knowledge, which knowledge is not only in the final state, is also in the region, a public sector that is not shrinking and is not based on outsourcing and direct assignments to friendly consultancy. Secondly, we imagine a society and economy exploiting the Recovery and Resilience Fund and I ask you all to refer to resilience. It is not just a recovery fund, because it will face the fear of the world, the insecurity of the world by all threats. In the social field, a modern ESS and a public sector, together with the social needs of the citizens. Childhood that all children can, no matter which neighborhood they are, go to college. Housing policies that a couple of young people can have decent housing and living. Which deals with demographics in a serious way, implementing public policies that strengthen labour and living standards rather than limiting women's rights. Thirdly, for the production tissue that is not based on the same model as some large businesses, large projects, without the monoculture of construction and tourism. Energy communities, energy inequality and other self-managed schemes to make production more pluralistic. We are not relying on low wages, not just on social policy, but on development policy. I have told you repeatedly that wages in the era of neoliberalism do not go along with productivity, and we must start with the increase in wages, which triggers the U.S. and thus exploits the Greek assets as the Sovereign funds do in all these countries. And precisely because we know where we want to go, we can talk about today, how we are dealing, for example, with accuracy. I have here - and it's all I'm going to submit to the Minutes - about you talking about the middle and medium-sized accounts from our neighborhood supermarket. It is not the Sklanitis who yesterday told you what he is facing and what an increase in prices you will have. It's a small-scale supermarket. And in this small and medium-sized supermarket in 2020 late October - late November was costing 3,150 euros and this year exactly at the same time costs 6,200, i.e. 3,000 more. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Euklidis Tsakalotos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And before you applaud, although I have not seen such a tendency, it is not all bad news, because the compensation paid by Mr. Skeylakis and Mr. Mitsotakis for this increase of EUR 3,000 is EUR 9. So it's not all bad news. Three thousand the cost. Through here, you seem to be indebted to 9 euros, 9,90 euros to be honest. Support for work, wages, now, because we will go to a different economy and not invest on low wages, but through new products, new markets with technological upgrading. Support for the ERC with health recruitment and a gradual increase in health and education recruitment. Here, Mr. Russopoulou, it fits the stadium. That is where we need to have a gradual policy, to be able to increase it. And things about small and medium-sized enterprises, which many colleagues have said, have been said. In the long term and in the short term we are in the European debate. You are not criticising the European model, which has so many problems, but you are not taking on board the positive changes that are slowly changing European policies on a number of issues. No debate on what we will do and what Europe will be like. That is why we in Europe and Greece are addressing the Greek people and the Left parties. We agree on what the dividing lines are and what they are to discuss. What we're saying about the dividing lines is for the whole progressive side. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We agree that inequality is a dividing line and how do we treat them? Do we agree that the health system and the public sector of the treatment of pandemic are a problem that we have to deal with? If it is not these dividing lines, we should discuss what it is, so that we can also discuss a minimum programme how we can start to change this reality that we are facing. To discuss a state of real security, safety at work, health and safety in life. A state that we and our children will be able to live. A state for all and all. And the last point - just a minute, Mr President. With your own government, we are in the post-democratic era. What is a post-democratic era? When the parties of power, like yours, are not trying to combine interests, they can give a balance to what you want to do and how this affects the people's markets - see who I am looking at. He doesn't do that. He's politicizing with advisors, paramedics. There is a distance between the state and the citizens. And how is this distance solved, this gap between citizens and the state and policies? Through a communication policy, which we have other advisors and paramedics again. Except that communication cannot solve this distance, that gap between politics and the citizens. That is why we are making a call across the progressive socialist, left-hand spectrum to agree that the state cannot go on like this, and there is another way that we need to discuss, study and present. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u204	And we thank Mr. Chakaloto. Mr Miltiadis Varvitsiotis has the floor now. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u205	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened very carefully to the last two positions from the SYRIZA side of the two main factors of the economic policy of SYRIZA, Mr Drasakis and Mr Tsakalotos, which have simply come to an end: firstly, the greater invasion of taxes resulting from the establishment of the Greek state and, secondly, the absolute isolation of Greece from all the currents of thought within Europe. Because what we have seen is that SYRIZA returns to an extreme left-wing logic which has nothing to do with the way the European Union is going. What they are present is really an attitude to overthrow European policy, as expressed in recent years, so what? SYRIZA again is isolated and asks the country to rediscover itself, as was found in Europe over the past five years. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy is the party it believed, believes and will believe in the deepening of the European Union and the participation of our country in it. When Constantine Karamanlis put the country in the European Union, he did so in vain for many interests, fearing that the privileges of the closed market will be lost. However, it did, because Greece wanted to live in a competitive, level playing field with other European partners and in an environment of security. Unfortunately, policies that did not support the development dimension of our economy, but supported the subsidised dimension of our economy, the increase in wages, pensions, difficult production models, the waste of European resources led us to painful memoranda, which we have all paid and paid for by the Greek people. Today, in order to escape this difficulty, it is not to return back to the logic of voluntary employment, but to create the foundations, so that we can compete in a modern competitive context. What's that? It is the context of the green transition. It's the context of digital transformation. It is the framework of the competitiveness of the economy. The Government has shown that, where necessary, it may, in fact, support the production process. They left 40 billion euros warmly from state funds to the market, to support businesses and jobs during the pandemic period. At the same time, however, we did not miss the opportunity, we did not download the pencils. We have tried to adapt to the new European reality. And let me tell you that this new European reality has translated it to a very large extent. Because we have co-formulated, demanded, claimed and ultimately managed for our country to get the most per capita money from the Recovery and Resistance Fund and today to have development prospects that the country has never had before. We have managed to organise and coordinate the European Union in a way that is common, through the digital certificate, so that Europeans can travel and, today, there is the hope that the tourist season - certainly, with the tolerance of the coronary - will be much better than the previous ones. Of course, we have managed to put the issues of digital transformation very high and the issues of a fair energy transition so that our country is not dramatically affected by the need to exploit new technologies, green technologies for energy production. Because what we do not want to do in any case is this terrible, acidomo that I heard from Mr Tsipras say in Kozani, that we can produce green energy from lignite and lead us to an illusion that clean energy is accurate, while 'birthy' energy is cheap. The vice versa is because the cost of fossil fuel produced is ultimately costing the environment, it costs the next generation, it costs the sustainability of development, which we must serve, by handing over to the younger ones. Ladies and gentlemen, I have said all of this because I want to talk a little bit about our country's progress in Europe and what the objectives we have been working on for the last time have been. We have not only served the objectives of the Recovery and Digital Transformation Fund, but we have served the deepening of our bilateral relations with all European countries, but also the deepening of the security environment that Greek citizens and Greece can feel in the process of European integration. For the first time in our history we have transformed the issue of Greek-Turkish relations as a Euro-Turkish issue and we have managed to have a very tough framework now described by Turkey in clear words, in the words that it is hard to read, and which leads the neighbour to an extremely pressing relationship with the European Union, which, of course, has not only consequences for policies, but also economic consequences, which we are experiencing and which we are seeing. We do not believe that we can leave Turkey uncontrolled and beyond the European framework, look to third countries, without reminding the European Union that the common values of democracy, the rule of law, respect for human rights and respect for international treaties and international law are essential conditions for any expansion of its participation in it and, of course, the enjoyment of any benefits from the economic relationship it may have with it. At the same time, we are gradually expanding Europe's influence in our neighbourhood. Yesterday, after years, conclusions were reached, at last, on enlargement to the Western Balkans and we opened funds for a negotiating framework with Montenegro and Serbia, showing exactly what we want to do. And what's that? To make the Balkans an area of cooperation and not an area in which nationalism will always create destabilisation in the context of security, but also in bilateral relations and economic cooperation. Of course, it was very important that we opened up these funds relating to interconnection, road, rail, energy, telecommunications, because what we have been feeling for years is our geographical exclusion from Europe and all the trans-European networks. At the same time, we did not stop working to deepen our relationships with all the players in the region. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] And if I may, Mr President, for a minute, I would like to refer to the last and very important visit by the Greek Prime Minister to Sochi, where, after years of getting out of the wardrobe forgotten by the previous governments - particularly from the previous government - agreements, ideas useful to bilateral cooperation, we have put them down, processed them, signed them, to create a new operational framework for relations with Russia. Ladies and gentlemen, Greece can succeed if it makes use of three basic things: if it makes use of its human potential, its geographical location and its participation in the European Union. And that means either economic or politically, wherever this position can be exploited. This cannot be done on the basis that I will come to Europe and sit at the table of the European Council, and I will teach you what is the truth and that the path with which you are walking is wrong, which is something that we are always listening to on the side of the SYRIZA, but it is to use the different strategies of the Member States, to use their relationships to its advantage and to be always in the vanguard of the winners in any negotiation. That is what we have done, and that is what the Mitsotakis Government will do, and that is why I call for the budget to be voted on, which also means voting in favour of our overall policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u206	And we thank Mr Varvitsiotis. The speaker of the New Democracy, Mr Simopoulos, will now be given the floor. Then, as I said, Mr. Paulakis, Mr. Pafilis, and then the Minister for Justice, Mr. Tsiaras. After the Minister we'll announce a new circle of speakers. Mr Simopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u207	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I will personally focus on the development dimension of the budget, because I absolutely believe that it is the development dimension of the budgets that creates conditions for reducing social injustices and not for voluntary policies. Our rapporteur has also focused on this, while the SYRIZA rapporteur has focused on subsidised policies. With projected investment of 20% and export growth, too, 20% is certain that we will have an increase in government revenues from more taxes and not an increase in tax burdens, so that then there really is a fair social dividend. After all, this is the government's top pursuit. The projected growth of 4.5% will thus continue to reduce unemployment to levels that have been known for the last years of the Greek economy. I should like to stress here that, as has been demonstrated by the figures, many good new jobs will be created next year. It is not just the investments of the large multinational groups, but also of the Greek industry, such as the construction sector. Ladies and gentlemen, today for building you cannot find any very easy workshops. The unemployment of engineers has been nullified, while at the same time areas such as focusing and tourism have a great problem finding suitable staff. To prevent you, of course, in the Opposition, I would like to note that under no circumstances is it all pomegranate. The difference between the unemployment benefit and the minimum wage is small. The minimum wage must be increased considerably, which the government has announced in two stages. At the same time, however, we must change the way in which we see the unemployment benefit. Mr. Chakatte, let's take an example from Sweden. There when you are unemployed, you declare to a service like the corresponding OAED the areas in which he has worked. When your agency finds a job and refuses it, the allowance is cut. As an example. So we must increase the minimum wage, but also look in another way and unemployment benefits. Mr President, accelerating development policies in 2022 will also be the Development and Resilience Fund, to which EUR 2.7 billion for the environment, the electrical interconnection of the Cyclades with mainland Greece, the equipment of hospitals, research and innovation, and infrastructures, such as the Northern Road of Crete, as well as for transport such as the supply of electricity buses to Athens and Thessaloniki. In infrastructure, I would like to point out that their contribution to GDP next year will be important. In fact, recently the Patras - Tower motorway was finally unlocked, E-65 continues, the motorway of central Greece, the airport in Kastelli, for Thessaloniki the famous elevated and naturally the metro. For the metro in particular, I cannot understand Mr. Tsakalotou's personal attack on Mrs. Mendoni. Mr. Tsakalotos, you must understand that the time when a so-called progressive nomenclura in Thessaloniki was stopping works has passed unreturned. All the city’s productive operators are in favour of this view. It is an issue you do not know in depth and I believe that, like your President, you have been taken away from the previous administration of the "Attica Metro". And I insist, I did not understand the personal attack on such high tone to the Minister of Culture. Now, I would also like to mention a number of issues relating to important citizens' problems. The government finds ways to give solutions. Recently, a solution was given to the issue of Thessaloniki's meteors, where some five hundred low-income families will acquire ownership on land that they hold for decades. In the same direction is the announcement by the Secretary of State for the Environment of the forested fields and, above all, the forthcoming legislation on the issue of public trespassed and exchangeable land. Three thousand citizens are involved in the arrangement, many of whom unsuspecting purchased with legal contracts. I now come to the phenomenon that we saw in Bulgaria yesterday with phrases in the coup d'état for murderers. I think they'll be intensified from now on. The more the SYRIZA's electoral base shrinks, the more its MPs address the hard core, the one fascinated by manhattan logic, old-fashioned perceptions and extreme populism. In simple terms, they will compete either in the House in the cafes or on the Internet, with the society I was absent. This situation will be without a return. It will constantly feed itself and your strength will fall constantly. Whatever your Chief does, whoever he deletes, is a phenomenon without return. You will be self-supporting it in an effort to save yourself personally, politically. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u208	I too thank Mr Simopoulos and the consistency of time. The speaker of SYRIZA, Paul Paulakis, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u209	Thank you very much, Mr President. One of the most beautiful women of Cretan music, with a very nice purpose, is this: "Do you have back indulgence, what is your complaint and a bitter smile I see on your face?" Why do I start with her? From 1990 to 2012 - these twenty-two years - about ten I've taken them out into the hospitals by informing all seven of these ten in an intensive care unit. That is why a few days ago, when I listened to the Prime Minister of the country from here the Step says, moving his hands: "You have information, ladies and gentlemen, that care in and out of the ICU is different, that there is a different mortality..." etc. and punish us like that, uh, yes, I exploded as a doctor. My hands have passed over the years that I was responsible for the ICU, over a thousand seven hundred patients. I lost three hundred. I remember one, one, and I know very well what you have to do to keep him alive. And you have the Prime Minister of the country telling you "in and out", "are you studying?" And I called him irrelevant. The problem isn't that I told him. The problem is why the other thirty-six doctors of all Parliament's wings didn't tell him. And before "alector you speak, three..." comes the study of the chosen ones, Mr. Tsiodra, the "say the Sotiris" with Mr. Lytra, which he says? I'll say it very clearly, because I'm not just talking to you. We're talking to the Greek people, and they need to understand. What this study says, which finally makes the Prime Minister not irrelevant, but a conscious liar, because he knew this study, as they repeatedly told the media that, "we gave it the study to take action on the ESS." So what does it say? Because the biggest conclusion is not what has been released, it is what I will tell you in a moment. They say, then, that from September 1, 2020 to May 6, 2021, they went through - look out, they went through - six thousand two hundred eighty patients. Of them, the three thousand nine hundred eighty eighty died. The others survived. And it says the study and proves - with regional disparities, with the in - outside ICU, with the lack of staff, etc. - that a thousand five hundred thirty could have been saved. So, it proves that those outside ICU had 87% mortality and those who were inside had 60%, 60% being a huge percentage. And it comes 60% because in "Save", "Evangelism", "Siminoglio", "Laikos", "Nice" is 30%, 35% mortality. In Edessa, Agrinio, Corfu, Veroia, Xanthi, Corinth, it was 80% with 100%. This brings 60% of the ICUs that Mr Tsakalotos said earlier on the issue of regional disparities. But the scariest thing is, it's not that. The most appalling thing is: That from this study and the information we ask for and do not give it either by Zautis, by the Ministry and by 'downloaded' and by the page of the 2nd RSU and 7th which had the data of deaths after coming out of the narrative, from 1 September 2020 to 6 May 2021 - on the basis of EGE's figures, what was announced every day - in our country, tens of thousands of five hundred sixty-sixteen patients died from COVID. If we remove the three thousand nine hundred eighty eighty-eight who were the intubated who died either within or outside the ICU, there are six thousand five hundred eighty-eight eighty-patients. Where did they die, gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen? Mr. Stefanides, Professor, where did they die? I'll tell you where they died because Mr. Janetis, former president of the EAW, has published the evidence. A thousand eight hundred in their homes, eight hundred arriving at the hospital, because they were in a very heavy state, because there was no primary school to tell them "run", "go" or give them instructions, and the rest of them at some CIVID clinic, on a ranch, on their own, with no relatives, with doctors entering morning and night only because they were not there to go and see them, go with some oxygen. That's how these people died. That's the scary one. And you want to bring it back to the present number of dead people who have reached the nineteen thousand seven hundred? If we recite it - and it's not mathematical reduction - it's worse now, because it's gone and six and a half thousand by parole, because they've resigned doctors and nurses from overcompensation. This means that at twenty thousand dead, twelve thousand died in the way I say. And you dare talk to us? And you dare shake our finger? And you're caught with expressions and words? We are making you deeply politically critical. We're not telling you that you're holding any guns to murder people, but your ideological obsession against the public health system, your deep class option not to strengthen it, not to hire personnel, not to use the new treatments led to these deaths. I told you last year, on December 13, which was my second speech last year: "Do not bet only on the vaccine weapon. It's one, but it's not capable of stopping it, use the treatments." You said I was "inhabited", you said I was an anembolic, you said me one, you said the other, and you brought two thousand doses that are not enough for the seed, which we say in Crete. Those who have taken them, 100, 100, 50, no one has gone worse. They've all lived and they're in their homes. I appeal to you to do so now, because it is one of the main ways, so that the next month and a half will not count eighty and a hundred and twenty deaths a day. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] One more minute, Mr President. I want to say two words about the part of the budget and Mr. Dog. Mr. Dogfish, because I don't have time, because I'm over time and thanks for the tolerance, I'll just say two things. Mr. Dogmatakis, you said, "We as SYRIZA government reduced expenditure". I mean, it's pulling your head's hair! We got a spending limit of 1,480,000,000, and we got it 1,860,000. You are reducing this year about 820m euros the budget from the health sector. You say that in 2018 the amount we gave was reduced. Why was it reduced in 2018, Mr. Dog? Because, with the management we have done, for the first time in the history of the Greek public health system, although we received from you on 31-12-2014 hospitals with 735 million euros in deficits, which, whatever money they had and gave, would owe 735 more and on 31-12-2017, we had reached them to have 360 million positive cash surplus. In other words, even if they were paying for what they had bought up to 31-12-2017, they would have lost 360 million. This amount in 2018 was 260 million and that is what you moved. Now, Mr. Dogfish, what do we have? Advanced data: On 30-11-2021 what are the deadlines for hospitals, which have given money? It's 801.291.510 euros. Why did you not conclude the agreement that former Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras announced with Henry Dynan, the state-of-the-art hospital, which we would bring 90 million of us, 10 million of which would go to the public sector again? If we had it today, we'd have four hundred beds plus forty-five beds. There, however, Mr Stournaras, Mr. Big Bank of Piraeus blocked the story. You stopped it, took the ball, and what I was saying and Mr. Harare that it was his fault. It wasn't the man's fault, and I'm saying it, because I don't want to blame anyone. The decisions were made by others. That's why I honor him, I withdraw the designation for this. It was Mr. Big and Mr. Stournaras who stopped. At the moment, you stopped this agreement that existed, signed, monographed. But we would have another four hundred beds in the health system to meet needs that are not there today. It turned out to be disastrous the management you've done. At the moment, our country is in deaths per million people from the first countries in Europe. Didn't you say we didn't become Sweden? How many deaths are in Sweden per million population now? It's a thousand four hundred eighty. How many do we have? A thousand eight hundred ninety-nine. How many deaths did Sweden have in November? He had a hundred and six. How many did we have? We had two thousand eight hundred. How many beds did we have in November in S.H.I.E.L.D.? We had six hundred - six hundred fifty. How much did Sweden have? He had twenty-five or thirty-five. Why? Because he inoculated a little more than we, not too much, the old ages, and why he makes very clear use of monoclonals to everyone and they don't get there. Thirdly, it takes all the other measures with the public transport, with the schools, with double shifts, with the teleworking that you refuse to take. You ate all the money last year, finished the story, went with the 380 billion-dollar deficit, and you're preparing us a new memorandum. It is time you left, ladies and gentlemen, and you will understand it very soon and the Greek people will show it to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u210	Parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Athanasios Pafilis. After Mr. Pafile, the Minister of Justice will speak, Mr. Tsiaras.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u211	Thank you, Mr President. If anyone reads the rapporteurs for the budgets of all years, but in particular for the last few years, he will literally start to laugh, if he is objective and not opportune. All the same. He's a developmentist, he's socially fair. Even in the crisis they say: We're going to overcome the crisis, it's a budget for everyone - a big joke! - above classes. Everyone wins, like we live in a communist society, that is! That's what you all say and that's what you said. But, Mr Tsakalote, whatever you say, the feature of the budgets within the capitalist system and the governments that serve the capitalist system is always one, even in better periods: it is classic and hard classic. Why is he a hard-core class? Because that depends on everyone’s philosophy of what the driving force of society is. All of you say it's capital, and we say it's workers, the production of wealth. So let us stop this debate a little bit. What is the government's motto and not just? What's the magic word, I'd say? It's growth. The government celebrates, Mr. Dogs, for high growth rates. SYRIZA is trying to say it's not growth, it's recovery. It doesn't matter, of course, but all of you, along with KINAL, are talking about growth. What growth? What's growth? Intrusion? Acetic? It's capitalist development. Yes or no? You agree. The New Democracy, therefore, as an authentic ideological expression of capitalism - because there are not only the originals, there are those who are hiding, but they too are originals of capitalism - promises growth that will come through investment for everyone, which will increase GDP and which the workers will live well and we are better, with 300 euros a month. That's what he says. Everyone will benefit. Myth! That myth cut him off! I call it folk. Stop it, because it's a legend. A worker cannot believe that he will ever be able to live better in capitalist growth, regardless of what he votes for and what he can believe. Because his own life proves that we have growth, he loses, he loses, he loses, he loses, he has a crisis, he breaks, we have a recovery, he tells him patience and so on. The KINAL and SYRIZA package go - now the battle of social democracy, which is the reserve of the urban system, and focus confrontation on the form of management of the New Democracy's policy. This is not the first time they have done so, and the strategy does not question it. What are they saying? You're incapable of managing, but what? Capitalist development. Capitalist development, which is based on the laws of the system and which is why you cannot make fun of the world of SYRIZA in particular and of KINAL. There are the ironic laws of the system that say growth means strengthening capital, growth means austerity. So try to create the feeling that the problem is New Democracy - of course it is New Democracy - and that the others are better, that it is not capitalism, it is neoliberalism. I'll say a few things below. And we ask the question: is there another or conscious misunderstanding? We say the second. You're fooling around and creating false hopes, and most of you know. For what reasons, you know, I don't want to say big talk. And no one would say, but what does the JRC say now, you cunts? So tell us, all of you, all of you - let me take Europe, not all of the world - who ruled whether they were right, as they say, whether they were centre-right, as they say, whether they were Aristotle-right, where Kammenos is gone - whether they were mixtures, strategically followed by the same or not? Today, when you praise the European Union and the Spanish and Portuguese, are you mocking us? Don't they? What do they do differently? What's the difference and the fight starts? "You know, New Democracy gives crumbs while we give a slice of bread." And I ask you, does the man live with a slice of bread? Is that the risk and dilemma of the time, if it's the least fasting? And I ask you again: Where do you give it to? From your pocket? Where do you get it from? From capital taxation? Who's paying for this? They are paid by the workers who have little more income and by government of SYRIZA, and by formerly PASOK, and by New Democracy, and by New Democracy today. Well, development. Of course there is capitalist growth. And you know, don't mock in here, there's the cycle of the capitalist economy, which says, growth, recession, crisis, recovery, growth, it's a Marxist analysis. Unless no one's inexperienced or I don't say stupid and he doesn't accept that. If he does not accept it, let him follow developments in the capitalist economy. Is it or isn't it? It is. Thank God you at least agree on that. So the question is where does development come from? So this is where the strays are separated from the galleries, which we in the village say. The President understands. This is where they stand out. So where does growth come from? What do we say? Development comes from the intensity of the farm, from the escalation of the anti-galactic attack. Profits, that is, to say, and recovery and growth come from the greater exploitation of workers. You'll tell us "we, the machines" etc. I ask you: If all the workers stop working tomorrow, will the machines work? Have I said it before, even the robots they've made will work? If it's damaged, who's gonna fix it? The other robot? Oh, no. So the productive power is the workers, and so to make profits, they can't get out of dry machines or the scams and smarts of capitalists. They come from increasing the exploitation of workers, and that is a central issue. And this is where we're separated from chaos with you and everyone else. I did not hear anyone say that, that growth on both SYRIZA - there was no, but it does not matter - and on all governments comes from the pocket of workers' gainfulness. You don't say it because if you said it, you wouldn't have told us you could run better. You can't run better. That's objective. So, ladies and gentlemen, what did the memorandums do, what were the first measures taken? They pissed off everything the workers had. Yes or no? The first packages from all governments were a reduction in wages, pensions, wages, a reduction in labour force pay. Why did they do it? Because they hate or are they idiots? Because they know that if not all of this is reduced, they won't make big profits. So, first thing is that. Even at what time? Too bad for people who should think. What time? I'll answer that later. Secondly, in order to serve the high growth rates, an institutional framework was created that existed before, but has now accelerated, and with the memoranda, and with the SYRIZA Government, and is now taking off with New Democracy, which says: first, fiscal incentives. Who are you talking to, really? What are you all doing? You say'reduction of taxation'. Who reduces taxation? 45% was tax on large capital before 1990. How much did you take? In 23% - 24% SYRIZA - that's not? - 21% New Democracy and says it's big! Poor guys paying taxes? How they're gonna get on the beggar! Second, what did you do? SYRIZA reduces the tax on distributed profits - yes or no - from 15% to 10%. It was the first steps we came out of the Memorandum for the People. Distributed profits have employees, self-employed, etc. And the New Democracy comes to 5% and celebrates 'we have reduced taxes'. What else did they come for? New spatial incentives, new urban incentives, everything serving private beer than they say. And there's the Recovery Fund that everyone applauded here. And because for the Recovery Fund, SYRIZA, as usual, plays a game, has a past. Do you know them? Mr Drasakis also spoke that 'we in the Recovery Fund'. What Recovery Fund? The Recovery Fund has irons, literally irons, arrangements for how the money will be provided. I'm still going to say it again, and for the Junior School there are thirteen conditions to get money, and the main ones are the business teams. That's where the fund's going. So what are you gonna do? Will you change it? How? 1914, hope is coming, Europe is changing. Now you say the same thing, but, you know, once you say it twice, the billion has sinned by no man wise. That's what you're saying. What are you going to change? It's a new memorial. What do you think? Secondly, who will pay for it, the loan from the Recovery Fund? Entrepreneurs? Will you increase the taxes? Oh, no! The people will pay for them themselves. That is why we say it is a new memorandum and much more. I don't want to say it. Thirdly, generalised privatizations. SYRIZA went out on the tiles. Excuse me, but seventeen airports who sold them? Can you answer us? SYRIZA! Who sold him? SYRIZA! The property of the Greek people - the public property of the people - is not - who put it in the Ultimate Ninety-Nine Years? SYRIZA! What was New Democracy saying? ‘Inadmissible’. What did he do? He accepted it and applauded it completely. So privatizations. Big business that could survive. I do not want to mention examples of why time is running out. Next issue is the reduction of social costs. That's what the memos were saying. For two reasons: first, to save money and fund business groups. And don't tell us stories about savages now. How many hospitals have you all booked? How much did you all reduce health expenditure? Don't tell us, I don't want to have another kind of propaganda now. And you opened the way to business activity in education, health, sport, culture everywhere. What for? In order for workers to have better services, paying fiftys, pigeons, quarters in all areas, to make their children elementary and not luxurious today? No, you did it to win and invest the business groups. Alpha Bank 2009 or 2010, if I'm not mistaken, what did he propose to entrepreneurs? Health investments. They were right on their part. Here to take a break. This policy I described, did all the governments follow it or not? All of them. And the New Democracy and the New Democracy - PASOK. And what else did you have? KINAL - Karatzaferis. I mean, we've lost the bill. And the progressive government demanded by the symbols. She was tested with Mr. Kammenos. She was progressive, left. It wasn't just socialist. Secondly, the state budget. I'll say it now, even though I appreciate Mr. Rusopulus. What do you think? Not only are you people calling it. The state budget, he says, is determined by social needs. Mercy! We're going to the highest point to fall. Yes, sir. Should we get the numbers, social needs? Who's paying? 95% of taxation is paid by employees and self-employed. Yes or no? Isn't that right, Mr. Stakoura? Is it like that or am I wrong? He's not listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u212	I'm listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u213	Is that so? Does he pay 95%? How much do those who have over 60% of GDP pay? I'm counting. I don't know if I'm wrong, if it's bigger or smaller. Who's paying for it? How many pay? 5%. You say tax exemptions. How's that thing? This is where we're talking about, we've lost the numerical. What's he saying? 50 billion, i.e. 3.5 billion. more. Where are these from? 57% of indirect taxes. Indirect taxes are the most unpopular. A pack of cigarettes is the same for a worker as one who has 10,000 and 20,000 and 30,000 and 100,000 income? Oh, no. They're the most anti-grassy taxes. Secondly, you say that social needs are defined and whether they are stationary or all social needs are reduced: health, education. Mrs. Keramea isn't here. Going to Philadelphia, go - and not just - to see a class of 2021: in containers, one on each other, freeze in winter and boil in summer. Go see her. Let's see what kind of education you have. Why? Don't you have any money to give there? Where do you have a spare? This is where the groups are going to start grumbling.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u214	Finish slowly.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u215	I'm done. Progress and prosperity is the motto. Yes, sir. 27% of retired people get 470 euros. You guys call? Will you live? 38% gets 580 clean. Written unemployed are nine hundred eighty-seven thousand seven hundred sixty-three. A hundred and four thousand are subsidized, one in eleven. How do the others live? This is your prosperity of capitalism. Part-time: from 12% in 2009, it went 30%. We have achieved European objectives, Mr Chakaloto. I say it and, I guess, you won't get any misunderstandings. That is what the European Union said. We need to get through to at least 30%. What does that mean? Two hundred and three hundred, you have today, tomorrow you're not registered as an employee, if you work once a week. That's progress. Progress is being made, ladies and gentlemen, by capitalism, in 1921, to safeguard the eighth and 2021, a hundred years later, the tenth and a dozen hours. Good for you!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u216	The rest of tomorrow, Mr. Pafile, in secondary.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u217	I'm done. What's the progress? I read. Let's not see and guess. This year's list of the billionaires of FORBS includes a record number of two thousand seven hundred and fifty-five people who raise in their hands a total of 13.1 trillion dollars last year when they had 8 trillion dollars. That's capitalism. So what's the dilemma today? No matter what you do, no matter whether capitalism prevails everywhere. What's the way out? Can you give me a way out? Everywhere the system goes bankrupt. This is where millions of people die because they don't give the patents. Do you understand? They don't give patents while they earn $65,000 a minute. They don't give them to vacate people. I'm saying an extreme example, which isn't the only one. So the dilemma is socialism or barbarism, whatever anyone says. Because there is no other alternative. It's objective. And the dilemma is not progress or maintenance, you of SYRIZA. This slogan has been bankrupt since PASOK said it. You repeat it, too. It's a dead end, and it's the Trojan horse of the working people's movement to overthrow capitalism. That's it. What are you telling him? That with capitalist production relationships, ownership of the means of production, with, with, we will make capitalism human. So the dilemma is: Lost life? What did you call it, Leonidas? Is that life? Or take advantage of unprecedented opportunities to benefit society and producers of wealth? The dilemma is: Are the means of production in the hands of those who produce them or in the hands of those who exploit them?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u218	Mr. Palphie, please. It doesn't work anymore. Put it down.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u219	I'm done. The dilemma is: Design for the people or design or for the Forbs list and partners? You guys are on the Forbs list, all of you, others consciously and others with delusion. We therefore tell the people that he can only unite class, regardless of what he is voting on and with the JRC. And the dilemma is: overthrow or subjugation? And follow the second one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u220	The Minister for Justice now has the floor, Mr Tsiaras, and then the former Prime Minister, George Papandreou, has called for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u221	When will the Members speak, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u222	You know, Mr Colleague, these are provided for in the Rules of Procedure. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u223	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today and tomorrow, the important parliamentary process of voting for the state budget is culminating in the resolution of the third budget drawn up and implemented by the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, a budget which, despite the insecurity caused by the coronary pandemic, continues to scan the planet, but also the intense inflationary pressures caused by the instability of the energy market, is based primarily on the Government's commitment to an integrated reform plan, which certainly restores the growth potential of the economy, deepens social policies by supporting our weakest citizens, deepens and consolidates the rule of law by protecting the rights of citizens. In the State Budget of 2022, not all individual government policies are reflected, because next to the budget tool a parallel programme of reforms and major projects has been launched, which compose the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, which changes the image of the national judiciary as well. It is a programme which for the judiciary is structured in three main axes: The first axis concerns the creation of new infrastructure, and on this axis, ladies and gentlemen, many important projects have already been launched: the purchase of thirty thousand square meters in Piraeus for the accommodation of all the courts and prosecutors of Piraeus. The transfer of the Court of First Instance and the Attorney-General of Athens, the well-known Euppidon, to a new court building of a total area of forty thousand square meters in the area behind Marios Ice. Renovation of the historic building of the Council of State. The renovation of the National Court School. The reconstructing of the Law of Thessaloniki and the construction of new judges in Serres, Edessa and Kilkis. The energy upgrade of judges Larissa, Karditsa and Trikalons and the construction of new judges in Volos and Lamia. The renovation of the Court of Justice of Rethymnon and the construction of judges in Heraklion and Chania. The second axis concerns the strategy for deepening e-justice. We are planning to extend the Integrated Judiciary and Criminal Justice Management System to all courts in the territory. We are upgrading the Integrated Judiciary Management System of Administrative Justice and the Court of Auditors. The National Criminal Registry, as well as the courts' record and, of course, it is well known that it is expanding - it has already been extended - the transcription of the hearing in the criminal courts throughout the country. New applications are being developed which facilitate the daily lives of citizens, such as intangible divorce, electronic billboards, which already operate in the Athens Court of First Instance, while the electronic file is constantly expanding to both administrative and political justice and remote deposits are being established through teleconferences. The third axis concerns areas in the justice system. We have already voted, just a few days ago, on the new framework of the National School of Judiciary, which has its focus on the continuing training of its students, but of course also on active judicial officers. We are planning - and we will be voting in the near future - the new Code of the Statute of the Courts by introducing a new framework for the assessment and disciplinary control of judicial officers. We are launching the establishment of the National School of Judges in the standards of the National School of Judges and the National School of Public Administration to serve justice with high-trained judges. We are planning the structure of a new agency, the judicial police, which is a consistent demand from all the actors in our judiciary system. We further strengthen alternative methods of dispute resolution, by more rapid penetration of mediation and modernising the institutional framework for international trade arbitration. Ladies and gentlemen, despite the small percentage of the Ministry of Justice in the overall state budget, the added value of justice for the whole economy is enormous. The existence of a rule of law, the speed of administration of justice, the establishment of transparency rules and the independence and effectiveness of justice are key factors in attracting new investments and in taking investment initiatives. In our recent reports on the effectiveness of the national judicial system, in fact, the results of our created policy are reflected. The confidence of citizens and businesses in the institutions of Greek justice is steadily improving. The number of cases dealt with is steadily surpassing the volume of new cases that enter the system, promoting, in a way, the improvement of the rules for the award of justice. Ladies and gentlemen, 2021 has been and undoubtedly remains a very difficult year. Despite adversity, we have managed to implement one by one of all the commitments we have made from this Step towards modernising justice. The Code of Judiciary was fully changed in the legislative framework of the National School of Judges, the amendments to the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure were completed, the Code of Civil Procedure was fully updated, which established the pilot trial in civil justice. At the same time, we have undertaken important actions to protect human rights, by drawing up and implementing the first national plan against racism and intolerance and the national action plan for children, issues which the State Secretary responsible analysed in his place. The new year obviously also holds new uncertainties because of both the coronary mutations and the unforeseen and persistent pressures on the energy market. Despite these uncertainties, however, there are also stable. Fixed, ladies and gentlemen, it is the citizens' firm trust in the Government of Mr Mitsotakis, that this budget reduces and compensates the risks of global instability and the effects of the citizens, our firm belief that this budget will mitigate the economic consequences of the pandemic and achieve sustainable growth in the interests of the citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, usually, in the budget debates, we analyse all of this, which may have been done last year and what we are planning to do next. I am pleased to confirm that what we said from Stepma last year in the budget and related to the design of the Ministry of Justice is all the issues and issues that have already been put into implementation, they have already been legislated by the Greek Parliament and give us the opportunity to see developments and problems in the field of justice with optimism. With these considerations, therefore, I would like to invite you to vote in favour of the 2022 state budget, not only to lead safely to the next day in terms of economic development, which ensure social cohesion. I urge you to vote on the budget for 2022, because in this budget all the policies of the government are being summarised, which are constantly leading to the institutional crisis, which we have seen in previous years, in their realisation. It is a moment when each of us takes on the part of the responsibility that lies with him. And in this effort that the Greek citizens are following us, seeing and judging, I imagine everyone has the floor and has his personal responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u224	We also thank the Minister and the time consistency.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u225	Mr President, I would like to ask the Minister a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u226	Mr Tsakalotos, I am not going to give you the floor. It's not parliamentary control here. The former Prime Minister, Mr Papandreou, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u227	Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing here today, in the Greek Parliament, twelve years after the major economic crisis, the 2022 budget, the third in a row tabled by the New Democracy Government. In the last ten years we have lived three major government periods in which the New Democracy dominated two of these and SYRIZA in one. These ten years, however, lacked vision, targeting and design. It was lacking in the will to rid our country of chronic pathogens and especially of the causes that led us to the crisis. There is a lack of political will today to make serious overthrows. Thus, the possibility is lost, together with the prospect of organising the transition of Greece, the Greek society, in the new era, on a sustainable and green next day. As democrats, as socialists, we believe that three are the main prerequisites for this transition. The transition is required to be democratic and participatory. I take an example of the Recovery Fund. Historical opportunity with the money we will have from the European Union to transform the economy into a more resilient and dynamic one. The dialogue, consultation of local and regional authorities was completely lacking. The dialogue with the social partners, small and medium-sized enterprises, chambers, civil society, the new generation, universities and research centres was completely absent. The so-called state is ultimately the cover-up of a long tradition of Greek Right, centralisation and control of resources and power, with the ultimate aim of serving privileged interest groups and establishments. Sensory and opacity to your decisions. To mention, for example, only the way you operated the media, supplies, the assignments of works during this pandemic. Concentration and opacity that ultimately undermine democracy are the main causes of maliciousness in our country and the crises that the Greek people are finally paying. And at the particular juncture of a brave funding from the European Union, New Democracy is deprived of a historic opportunity to open a national dialogue on where we want Greece to go, which is the productive model, in which new products from agriculture, industry and even services will invest, how by exploiting research and universities as a driving force, power for the future, how we will assimilate new technologies, greens, digitals, energy. Only with a national call, where we are all involved in the formation of tomorrow, can we get a successful transition. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget under discussion highlights the government's choices that in no way ensure that a reformist spirit is in place. You claim you invest in returning to normality. What are you talking about? The major inequality that pandemic showed up? The major deficiencies in the public health system? A basic salary that reproduces poverty and insecurity? We were told first of all about the need to move to a green economy. But it needs to be a second condition. It must be a socially fair transition. The burdens cannot fall on the poorest and middle social strata. Contrary to what you support, this budget has a clear conservative ideological mark. The many will again be lost. The social dimension of your economic policy is absent, despite your signatures and commitments made by the Government at the Oporto Summit in May. The government claims to have the recipe for recovery. Tax reductions, changes in the insurance system and the labour market and privatizations. Neither the international experience of tax relief for the powerful nor the degradation of labour relations has historically yielded the expected development effects. Because pandemic has shown a very basic rule, that without serious redistribution, without strong social services, such as the health and education system, there is no healthy economy. This is also the experience of many social democratic countries, such as Scandinavia. The competitiveness of an economy requires a sense of certainty and justice. On the contrary, the neoliberal approach not only failed, but it also had painful consequences of polarization and division in many societies that believed in this recipe. For example, it is the United States, which now on Biden, is turning to central policy. It is not wrong that the New Democracy was forced in practice by following the European Union to change the economic camp. It is, however, wrong to target expenditure by driving the debt to 206% of GDP. If anything else the New Democracy has a time-consuming effect on the increase in public debt. On the expenditure side, there is a clear trend towards limiting the social state. If, for example, the Ministries of Labour and Social Affairs, Health, Education, the Environment and Energy, the Protection of Citizens and Climate Crisis and Civil Protection reflect all social costs, then expenditure has fallen by 2.8 billion at 2022 prices. And unfortunately, tragedy leads to the management of the pandemic crisis by New Democracy. The opportunity is also missed not only to support but also to reform the public health system. In New Democracy, we are negatively distinguished from the rest of Europe, as well as from 2020, private spending has increased, that is, from the pocket of the Greek worker for his health needs. Ladies and gentlemen, the health crisis confirmed the assessment that in the end the crisis of 2008 - 2010 and its consequences have not been very helpful to us in order to learn from that tragic experience, to think and to change radically. In a decade, Greece, like the other countries of the European Union, has been faced with imported and domestic crises. However, if we make the account, that is, when we compare with crises experienced with us and other countries, it seems clear that we are paying a heavier price than others and in terms of lost GDP and a social price, that is, in terms of lost jobs and an increase in inequality. We must also be concerned about the fact that 2020 paid the second heavier price to the European Union in terms of recession. And this despite the fact that in this crisis, unlike that of 2009, we had the ultimate support of the European Central Bank and the European Union, as it suspended the financial rules. The European Central Bank has helped us to buy all our bonds issued by the country. Loan costs fell at the lowest historical levels, despite the fact that Greek bonds do not have the investment grade. We were also given the opportunity to spend most of any other country in the European Union to deal with the consequences of the crisis. These are elements of the ESM. The result of this budgetary intervention, however, is less than the corresponding other countries, namely other countries which have spent less than Greece, have better or the same results. What's that for? First, the bad targeting. Interventions were approved not always on the basis of their effectiveness and multiplier effect on the economy, but on the basis of the satisfaction of the electoral clientele. It would be very helpful if we were to find out who was supported and how they used it. The second problem relates to the deficit in progressive reforms over the last decade. Reforms with a positive signal for the citizens who would accelerate the transformation of the economy in order to become more outward-looking and more resilient in crisis. The recovery you are talking about to be sustainable must serve to move to a green economy. However, this requires a modern democratic state which will free production forces on the one hand, namely over-concentrating bureaucracy, pluralism, the daring efficiency of justice, but on the other hand will be substantially supported by the farmer up to the small and newly-born, helping them to absorb new technologies, always with the support of research and education and with the aim of a green transition. Only in this way will healthy investment be made, involving young people and women in the labour market and new jobs that will fill the gaps created by disinvestment in the last decade. And because Greece belongs to the countries of the European south most affected by climate change, it has the highest energy dependence on imports, the green transition is national and strategic. However, with the national recovery plan 'Greece 2.0', we have the lowest percentage for the green transition to the European Union of twenty, after Latvia and much below the European average. This is directly linked to the serious economic issue facing the Greek citizen today. The huge increase in electricity price. Energy costs have multiplied over the last 12 months. The cost to the producer is, of course, multiple costs to the consumer. You will tell me that this is a global phenomenon, but our country is disproportionately and disproportionately affected. It is not possible for our country to have the highest wholesale cost in Europe, namely the price purchased by suppliers to sell it to consumers. It cannot be more expensive for our country than Germany where the temperature has fallen below zero. It is not meant to be PPC which, in its behaviour on the wholesale market, evaporates prices. Why didn't anyone think before privatization that in times like these they should be obliged to help the market and the consumer rather than behave like any speculative private company? The government is proud that the price of its share has risen. Of course, but with what benefit to the Greek consumer? Other new questions have been raised here, given the high dependence on energy imports, the lowest comparative energy productivity in our country. Why does the government not prioritise the energy transition by making use of resources from the Recovery and Resilience Fund? Being disconnected, more self-sufficient in our energy production. Despite our decisions in 2010 on the green transition and the ELIOS programme, these have been forgotten and today energy developments have been unprepared to the Government of New Democracy. It has to announce ever greater amounts of energy subsidies. In essence, it concerns the premium for imported natural gas. And, beware, this is a subsidy granted to companies providers rather than consumers to permanently reduce their energy costs. There is nowhere to protect poor households from this clarity and poverty. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot once again see the allergy of the New Democracy's allergies to statistics, scientific research and, ultimately, true self-proof. Tomorrow, when you vote on your budget, I would remind you that it has been done on the basis of ELSTAT's statistics on Georgios, the man you still want to pursue, covering your responsibilities for the time when we arrived near bankruptcy. Today another study, the one by Mr Tsiodra and Mr Lytra, is the one you would like to take on board. Ladies and gentlemen, if we do not have the courage to deal with truths, Greece will not go forward, with unforeseen consequences for the future and for the Greek people. I can assure you that our resignation will continue to speak of these truths because we are the movement of the great democratic reforms and the defence of the interests of the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u228	Thank you, Mr. Papandreou. It will now take the floor for three minutes to make a small speech by the Minister of Finance, Mr Stagioras. Then two Members will speak, Mr. Snowides from New Democracy and Mr.Janakopoulos from SYRIZA, and then Mr. Ploris will take the floor. We shall follow the pace of rotation of the few Members who have remained with parliamentary representatives. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u229	Mr President, I listened carefully to your position. I shall avoid divestments in the past because then I shall have to answer 'there are' and how we entered the memos. In any case, the citizens have evaluated the time-consuming offer of each party, each party. You will allow me to speak about today. You said we had an allergy to the truth, and we should at some point account for where the money went and who took it. You spoke of a client state. I would like you to look at pages 132 and 133 of the budget. We have said that it is EUR 43 billion. 8.3 billion of them are repayable advances. We have made public by regional unity who have taken, how many small businesses, how many small and medium-sized enterprises. That's not a client state. Please submit it for the Minutes. They are the various circles of the returnees. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We have a reduction of three percentage points in insurance contributions, one and a half billion euros. Here to agree that it is the middle-class and private-sector workers. There's no doubt about that. We have suspended payment of a special contribution of solidarity to the private sector another half and a half billion euros. It is a horizontal policy, not a client state, all the society that has incomes from the private sector. We have a reduction in the payment of natural and legal persons to free professionals, businesses affected by the pandemic and farmers EUR 1.1 billion. I don't think it's a client state. "GEVY I" and "GEVYRI II", for the first time the state came and finances eighty-two thousand households that were consistent with the banking system and we come and pay as a budget the instalments of these citizens' loans. For the first time this state, this government rewards consistency with absolute transparency without customer criteria. The same applies to enterprises: zero rents. And the zero rents I think you've lived and seen that it's all about business, especially small and medium-sized enterprises. I therefore gave you some indicative information which is on page 132 and 133. Conclusion: Measures were socially fair, cost-effective. We had an excellent dialogue yesterday with Mr Kastanidis. There have been a lot of measures and we believe that they have been effective. Proof of this is that we have a rapid recovery. It will not surprise me to be close to absolute V in 2021 or at the beginning of 2022, to shrink unemployment, to improve the public's available income. So I tried to respond to the criticism of allergy to the truth. I think it's true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u230	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I call on the New Democracy MEP Savva Snowides to step in.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u231	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am not an economic expert, so I shall try to analyse the matter of today's top budget act in simple terms, which is probably understandable. After all, the wooden language is not mostly about the citizens, it is about the technocrats. I will only be tempted, as I have listened with all due respect to the former Prime Minister talking about the 'HIOS' project of 10 GW production, if I remember well. Only at the time when we were talking to people in the market had told us that transport networks could not drive up more than one and half GW. So let's see what the reality is today. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] So what I want to say is, in fact, whether we are all accepting the measurements of the international organizations. So what if the OECD says something is acceptable to Parliament as a whole? If the Statistical Authority of either Europe or Greece says anything, is the data acceptable? In my view we should all accept them. Let these be a basis, because the policies of the balcony, the policies of the 'Will', the policies of 'we', the 'we're fine', say nothing. And there I shall remain, in the logic that the figures really have their enormous value, especially when we are not telling them among ourselves, especially when they are told by third parties who are trustworthy, who have to accept that they are counting properly and see why they are managing the money too many customers in the world. A second question is ‘there are economic disparities between citizens and regional disparities’. Is this a phenomenon that we are now seeing? Do we not see for years that there are very significant disparities worldwide and in Greece as well? So when the private wage arrived then to be at EUR 500 and work uninsured for 400 euros, were there not the inequalities a few years ago or even more behind? The third point I would like to make is what is a dynamic phenomenon that we are talking about in the war we live in, a war with two attacks. One is from COVID-19 and the other from the climate crisis - it is not climate change, it is a climate crisis - which we are experiencing intensely. A dynamic phenomenon, then, is something that you cannot easily predict what will be tomorrow's eruption. You can speculate and you have to be safe so that the measures you take can be useful by analyzing all the scenarios. What the government is doing and the financial staff who, with certainty in the spring of 2020, said 'we do not give it all', when some people said to give it all up and 'we give it all up'. We are now seeing the same with the enormous energy crisis that we are facing and see that there is provision in a difficult scenario, such as the scenario of the earlier automatic increase in the energy price for Greece, that additional measures are given. So we need to see exactly what we are talking about and I will get to whether the budget covers these issues. We must also accept that Greece has begun to have initiatives. Previous initiatives have been taken, but no one can credit the water to the initiative of Mr. Mitsotakis. We cannot say that the 'green' certificate is not an initiative by Mr Mitsotakis. We cannot say that common policies on the energy market are not Mr Mitsotakis and other policies and the government. Some people, of course, said on a television show 'Who are we first announced that we should do the vaccine at three months'.' Is it bad to say first of all things that we understand? Certainly not. What I would also like to say is that there are some indicators we need to put them in our daily lives. It's the economic climate indicator. The economic climate indicator does not count for New Democracy, Greece does not count. The economic climate index of November is 113,4. We are about to reach the highest marker in the last 20 years, 120. How much was in October? It was 112.6. Is that an important element? What I mentioned in my suggestion is that we must accept the elements that exist from the global community everywhere recognised. We should finally see it for us. Is there the counter risk, which is an important factor in having to invest either a local or a foreign person? In simple terms, as a non-economicist understands, it says that someone is investing... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] You will give me some room, Mr President, with your love.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u232	But you do.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u233	Like this. The counter risk is therefore small in Switzerland, Liechtenstein, the United Kingdom. That's why, even though they're expensive there, they buy and invest. Has this improved in Greece in recent years? Clearly. Now many people say to argue "but AMAZON came to Greece, "MICROSOT" came further. Is that all? I will beg, colleague, to take a walk to Athens to see in the neighborhoods what happens with building activity. Is it true or lies what the National Statistical Authority says that 26.9% in the last 12 months has increased the number of licences and 59.2% has increased the square measures they make in Greece? Is this part of a lack of confidence? I don't think so. This budget, therefore, on the basis of these elements hanging underneath, namely the successes made at the level of national defence, are one thing with economic development. It is foreign policy and international relations that build credibility. The legal framework which is constantly built up, for example, in how our third-party justice from the end to the speed of handling cases is systematically improved with the work being done. It is also credibility and wisdom. And I want to say that in this war we are living - why is it a real war, a hybrid war, what globalism and Greece are living - you see something that is not working? Parliament? The Justice Department? That piece of tourism, where we surpassed 11 billion? There are, of course, issues, I'm not saying. Consumer faith, for example, which fell in the last eight months, is slowly recovering in November and December. There is evidence that we can all fight together and that one can lie because they do not go any faster. It's how long investment plans are being delayed. Laws have passed, the legal framework so that we can do more quickly because these are what we need. And I am not saying either about 'AMAZON' or about the very big companies that are interested and are coming to Greece. I'm talking about "Haralabidis KALODIA" in the region of Pieria, where an investment is made to generate UTP cables. They don't trust them? The MAXI industry, which makes 25 million in pulp and a number of other small and micro-enterprises, which, because they have confidence, invest in Greece and do not carry their money abroad as usual.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u234	Finish, Mr. Snowsides.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u235	So because the OECD says there is no need for any more fiscal measures, no matter what the public debt is, it is sustainable, because Greece is changing a page, it is moving upwards to see the world economy meets globalisation, which is here anyway, in the eyes. And because we have an issue about how much population we will have in the coming years, I think this is a great opportunity. Not in the normality that we knew, in the new normality that Greece is coming, can be really ahead, champion, a basis for stability, a basis for growth for all of us, but also give the world these possibilities once again with the new technologies that have already entered our lives and we are already using them for young people and older people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u236	Thank you. The next speaker was Mr Janakopoulos Dimitrios from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u237	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think the previous speech is a characteristic of the take-off and cut-off of the reality of all Members' positions from New Democracy and the Government. A picture was actually described that is so far away from the social reality experienced by Greek citizens, who really remain a nucleus with the convenience of colleagues of the New Democracy and colleagues of the government to admire themselves in the ruins of Greek society. But I will come to economic matters later, because I would like to begin with the study by Mr Tsiodra and Mr Lytras, which, in my opinion, will prove to be a legendary political development, because it is an event of incision. And I'll tell you why it's an incision, gentlemen of the government. Ladies, I don't see there being. Mr. Mitsotakis didn't have one. He didn't find a few days after the July elections. It will be a legendary political development, because now the debate, dialogue, criticism, confrontation, political conflict will not take place on the basis of estimates or on the basis of the elements that the SYRIZA-Progressive Alliance or the other parties of counter-population call for. It will be based on scientific evidence from you. Because it comes from two scientists, whom, at least until Mrs Gaga's 'empty' them, I understand that the government recognized them as leading, and indeed, had them - particularly Mr Chiorda - and trusted the head of the committee of experts. It helps this study to draw very concrete conclusions, political and social. First political conclusion: Mr Mitsotakis is a liar. We knew it, but now this study comes to confirm it beyond doubt, even for the most skeptical one. And why is he a liar? Because from here the Step a few days ago had said that it has no study in its hands that proves that hospitalization within ICU or outside ICU, intubation within or outside ICU, have a different development, have a different effect. No study had. It proved out of what Mr. Lytras said yesterday and yesterday that this morning Mr. Mitsotakis lied consciously to escape his huge political deadlock and his inability to answer Alexis Tsipras, the Chief of Police. Conclusion two. Mr. Mitsotakis has failed strategically in the management of the pandemic. Because what does this study tell us? I leave the self-evident thing to which many focus. What's the self-evident thing? That, i.e. if you're being dug in or out of the ICU, there's a huge difference. And what's the difference? As long as you're intubated out of an intensive care unit, you have 87% more chance of ending up than if you were in an intensive care unit. That's the first. But that's self-evident. Whoever scientist asks, whoever doctor asks, will not dare tell you anything different. The study, that is, repeats the obvious. There is other evidence, I told you before, Mr Paulakis. What are these? That during the study period there are at least six and a half thousand deaths, which have become out of intensive care and have not even been intubated. What does that mean? Where did these people die, Mr. Pleari? Where did they die? In their home, in the U.S., at some common clinic, without having the care that is appropriate in a developed country, alone. This is the shocking element of this study. And if we bring it back to today, these dead are not just six, six and a half thousand. They're twelve. They're thirteen. You're thirteen thousand outside of meth. And you know what? Mr. Kontozamanis when he said last year that 80% of people die outside an intensive care unit, he knew that element. This is reflected in this study. What Mr. Kontozamanis said last year and which you were trying to pick up after. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Third and worst you know what it is? At the moment, mortality in intensive care units in the European Union is about 25% to 30%. That's the percentage. Do you know how much the percentage in Greece is? Near 65%. How does that explain? Is that a failure or isn't it a failure? Is it a strategic failure in the management of the pandemic or not? And if that percentage is seen in the whole country, do you know where we're going to end up? We will conclude that the mortality in intensive care units in the region is close to 90%, perhaps more than 90% and 100% in specific cases - Edessa, Agrini, Corfu, Corinth - and we have a lower percentage, which is not even close to the European average, in the hospitals of Attica and Thessaloniki. That's 65%. If that's not a failure, what is it? And, of course, the fourth element of the study is regional inequalities, which are combined with the overall rate of the death rate, this 65%. Question? Mr. Flouris, do you have a report on the fourth wave? Do you have a report on what is happening now at the Greek hospitals? Answer your speech. And have you also made any change, no turns to your policy, so that they don't be repeated in the fifth wave that comes from the tragedy of the third and fourth waves? No change in your policy has been made. It's obvious you can't manage the pandemic either. The list of the dead is increasing, and because you also have lessons of political culture, Mr Mitsotakis here at the moment said that we were counting the acres, you were counting coffins. If I had Mr. Mitsotakis' political attitude and political style, I would ask him: What is Mr. Mitsotakis counting now? What's the point of doing to us lessons in political culture? But I'm not asking.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u238	Mr. Janakopoulos, finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u239	The previous speaker, Mr President, spoke ten minutes. Give me two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u240	No, now, don't go like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u241	So we don't have to do here with just a little inadequacy. We are dealing with a political choice, with a strategic political choice. And what is this strategic political choice? To break down the National Health System. Do not invest in the National Health System. To reduce EUR 820 million for the National Health System, in the middle of a fourth wave, while waiting for the fifth. To get Mr. Mitsotakis out and at a time when we have such regional inequalities in the National Health System, to talk about hospital merging, instead of talking about hiring medical and nursing staff and increasing the wages of medical and nursing personnel. And on top of celebrating that he's won the virus. Mr. Mitsotakis won the coronary, alone around the world. And he has the courage to appear in this Step and thus speak to the people who lose their relatives. And you have the courage to go out and celebrate, admiring again, roaming about two and a half years, for the great successes of the Greek economy. What are the major successes? You're talking about 6% recovery for 2021, but you're not telling us to watch cumulatively in 2020-2021 where the country is. It is the seventh since the end of the European Union. What can we see? Can we see the inflation? You say 4,9%. It is a low figure of 4.9% for the European Union. Is inflation in the same way divided as a burden on wage earners' incomes, on the incomes of people living in the lowest wage and in the same way divided into large businesses and business groups, Mr Stakoura? It is the same charge when the meat, when the oil, when the first-neutral species have been set at 30%. And "Sklanitis" comes out and says to you "Have you understood what is coming?" Should we talk about the minimum wage that you said you'd increase it twice the growth rate? We're waiting on January. If you don't come with a 12% increase in the minimum wage, you're also a liar and Mr. Mitsotakis a liar and the entire government's liars.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u242	Mr. Janakopoulos, the two minutes you asked for were exhausted.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u243	You continue to deceive the Greek people. And also - I'm closing, one last - adjustment of 6% for 2022. From 7.3% the primary deficit will go to 1.2%. Who asked you to do this, Mr. Stakoura? Who asked you to? Why are you doing this?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u244	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u245	Is there a stability pact? There isn't. Why do you go to 6% adjustment? I'll tell you why you're moving on to 6% adjustment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u246	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u247	Is there a stability pact? There isn't. Why do you go to 6% adjustment? I'll tell you why you're moving on to 6% adjustment. Because you actually know very well that Mitsotakis effect, which is allegedly advertised in relation to the low interest rates that you receive due to the " umbrella" of the European Central Bank and the debt arrangement that SYRIZA managed in 2018, is not the case.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u248	Good, Mr. Janakopoulos. Close here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u249	It's not true. And at the moment you have introduced the country into the precursors of austerity, which will again be the responsibility of the social majority. You're dangerous. You have to go.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u250	We will give the floor now to the Minister of Health, Mr. Ploris. Until the Step, Minister, is ready, I should like to inform the House that five Members and three Members of Parliament are missing. I would suggest that, after Mr Plovés, we go to a speaker, i.e. that we go alternately, a Member of Parliament. As far as parliamentarians are concerned, I would suggest - I do not know if there is any other thought or suggestion - that we begin...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u251	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u252	Do you want one of you? Okay, no objections. I thought we'd start backwards. It's not a matter. We'll go with Mr. Brutsi, then Mrs. Giannakopoulou and Mr. Mylonakis will follow. These three Members of Parliament are, after all, Members of the European Parliament. Well, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u253	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the budget debate and in fact, having nothing to say about the budget, which is a growth budget for 2022, it has spent all the debate on the part of the report to which it was referred, as well as on the subject of the IITs and the non-ITs, so I shall start with it, so that we can enter a debate and see what is going on. Let's see the pathogens of the system, see what was going on. I want to get an indicative date. I hear you all say that for every man who is not in a clinical ICU, Mr. Mitsotakis is responsible. I've heard your spokesperson keep saying it. Because we need to speak specifically, I say: on 16 January, seventy-eight patients outside the ICM, intact and waiting. Do you think the government is responsible for this? Tell me: Do you think he has a responsibility?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u254	He always has responsibility for the ruler, Mr. Plearis! He always has responsibility!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u255	Right, that's right, Mr. Polakis, because that's on January 16, 2017, so you were responsible for seventy-eight people outside the ICU. I'll submit it to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u256	Please, be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u257	Did you see? You said 'Always the ruler is responsible'. Seventy-eight people outside the ICM, January 16, 2017.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u258	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u259	What else is going on, Mr. Polakis, over here? I read to you: On 25-7-2017, a hundred fifty IF beds fully equipped do not work, five thousand patients lose their lives annually from the non-function of the IF beds. Ninety patients the waiting time, no pandemic. That's 25-7-2017. Studies, colleagues of SYRIZA, were there. And because you have now discovered the study by Mr Tsiodra and Mr Lytra, let us also look at the other studies by Mr Lytra and Mr Tsiodra. On October 27, 2016, H1N1: Do you know what percentage of cases that were treated led to death? It's a four hundred and thirty-four cases check. It's a hundred and ninety-six deaths. The intubated patients who waited for a Clinic IF had more significant results, 16.9% more probabilities: Study by Mr. Tsiodra and Mr. Lytra for 2015-2016. For 2016-2017, the same study where there is no pandemic exists, flu exists, with Mr. Blonde and Mr. Polakis Ministers, what happens? Intubated patients with severe influenza pending placement in IF beds had more significant poorer effects. So this is the situation in the National Health System without any pandemic, and for this reason, because you have chosen to make a political confrontation about it all, we will begin to see what the Government received in 2019 and what it has done. Because all of a sudden the former SYRIZA's Health Ministers discovered that waiting in ICU beds took place in the COVID period. And if in the pandemic period there are anticipations and the government is responsible, what responsibility is there for the Prime Minister of 2015-2019 and for the Health Ministers, where without pandemic there were these anticipations in the five hundred IF beds, of which the four hundred thirty-eight had been working for a long time, because you delayed to serve them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u260	Now you're lying!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u261	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u262	So, here today, what I am holding and what is nice is that, when I said 'is the government responsible', said Mr Paulakis 'always has'. And it was him, Minister. That's the best!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u263	Clearly!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u264	Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u265	So let's go now. You'll hear it all. So you see that this is the state of the National Health System. Did the differences in the hospitals and in the regional hospitals arise in COVID? Wasn't there those problems now? Did the fact that we have twice as many hospital infections as the European Union has experienced during the pandemic period? So these are the pathogens of the system and these diseases of the system, to get away from the micro-party confrontation, if we do not admit them, we will never deal with them. And here, I am sorry, but - I have said - I put the personal example, because I too was the victim of hospital infection in an Athenian University Hospital, which, unfortunately, has a double average hospital infections than the entire European Union. So, why not look at them, do not deal with them or hide them and say that they are not there, and suddenly we discovered that the rate of death in regional hospitals is different? And that's what I'm sorry about, but it's the problem we're talking about. Because what did I hear here before? If they have to unite or do not join hospitals. Hospitals must provide high-level services. And believe me, often when there are two and three hospitals, it doesn't mean they're assigned to provide this service. But what did we do in what we found? In what we have found, ladies and gentlemen, we have done the following. It is 2019, we have received power in summer and in 2020 we have the coronary. All five hundred fifty IF beds made of a thousand three hundred IF beds. And how do these beds, like the National Health System? With twelve thousand subsidiary, two thousand auxiliary doctors and two thousand permanent recruits, calling for the recruitment of doctors in two years two thousand eight hundred ninety eighths, when you in four and a half years did two thousand fifty-four. And all this world has entered the system, and obviously, there has been a development of IF beds and they have entered the system of the EKT and private IF beds that existed, in the private sector, managed. And it had to be this National Health System to manage at the same time two ICU lists, a list of COVID cases, a list of non-COVID cases, which cannot coexist with each other, and at any time you had to increase ICU beds in one sector, depending on the pressure, to reduce to the other. From this, then, the National Health System we received, which showed you what it was like, which had all these problems, we did the required issues that you all of a sudden, which you had these anticipations, which were in the Ministries and you were seeing every night these anticipations, and you suddenly discovered that the anticipations began in the COVID era. They didn't start in the COVID era. There were. On the contrary, with the addition of ITH beds that have become all this time, when a pandemic passes, we will be able to say, yes, that in our National Health System we have the beds that we need so that we do not meet again. And what did the Prime Minister, Mr. Mitsotakis, do from the first moment? He did the organization to check the quality of hospitals and has told a number of interviews about the problems that existed in the National Health System. You voted against this particular body, the PPPY. And you know why you voted against him? You did not want to check quality in public hospitals, because you said it was the vehicle you were going to go to the privatisations, because you wanted to have the problem under the carpet. And the PPPY started and started researching in regional hospitals and when I had the honour of proposing Mr Zautis, an infection specialist and especially in hospital infections and we went to the Prime Minister, the mandate he had taken was to check the process of hospital infections. And, ladies and gentlemen, yes, as a Minister of Health I have asked the EGE and this work is being done to see the deaths as a whole not only in COVID, but also in non-COVID incidents. And you know what to see in these deaths? If there's a secondary cause. The primary cause may be the stroke, it may be the heart attack. Let us also see the secondary causes that may be infections and see really at the moment in total where there is a problem with the National Health System and where we must, in the face of the problem, go and deal with it. The coronary just brought these things faster, but these are pathogens of the National Health System that need to be dealt with. We cannot have rates worse than the European Union in normal times, which existed before a pandemic. And in the pandemic there was a huge struggle in all this direction. And many times with the criticism you are making and adopting the offenders are the doctors who are in the National Health System, adopting false complaints that there are beds that are closed and they are kept for names, when the electronic system that has been made, in fact, and upgraded to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Mr. Xanthos and knows it, is a system in which the only ones to intervene are the doctor who uploads the submission to the EKA and the doctor who accepts the submission. Doctors are only and they are the doctors who say they're in the ICUs. They handle the whole system and adopt categories that in this system closed empty beds are kept, you are basically saying that these doctors in the front line give the fight.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u266	We made this system!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u267	And because we are talking about the famous study, what else does this study show us? The study shows us something self-evident, that apparently when the National Health System is pressed and intubated is much more difficult to manage. That's what it says. Of course it is, but I show you evidence when there were no more than four hundred tubed up and you couldn't handle them. With five hundred, six hundred and seven hundred, of course, it is more difficult to manage. It's a pandemic, and that's where the battle takes place. And what, basically, is the soul of this study? That the other guy must not reach this condition, the patient, and so he doesn't get there, should have been vaccinated. So what did you guys do about the vaccinations? You want me to tell you what you did? I am not now entering these known ones, whether they are the vaccines and the others that Mr Paulakis had started. Now let's go to the last one. Five hundred and eighty thousand of our fellow citizens over sixty had not been vaccinated. We put the obligation on the administrative fine. You voted against it and you spoke of a failed measure. I tell you, ladies and gentlemen, today's figures: tens of thousands have been closed, made an appointment and another twenty thousand have been applied at home by these five hundred thousand. Does it succeed or does it not succeed? One hundred and forty thousand are being vaccinated in the five hundred eighty thousand who were invasive. Vaccinations have risen over 10 units. We have exceeded the European average now as soon as the second dose has been completed and in the age of more than sixty of 81% we have gone to 87%, precisely because if the world is vaccinated, it is not in this situation, because 90% of those crossed over a period of time are from our fellow citizens who are incomplete and basically over sixty, and at the moment with 80% vaccinated the general population again 81%-82% are incomplete within the ICMs. And instead of fighting there, you voted against this measure. You have even voted against the sanctions for parents who do not send their children to school. You have also voted against compulsory health care. So all the effort you have made to vote against and you were coming here to criticise, but having now ruled five years and having this information within the National Health System. And you come here and you lie. You say that we are reducing the health budget by comparing the costs which have been incurred plus the emergency COVID. The budget shall be compared with a budget of 2021; a budget of 2022. So what are the items in the budget 2021 and the budget 2022? 4270,000,000 tactical budget in 2021, 4.520,000,000 tactical budget in 2022. It is 250 million more and you get the number, the 5.1 billion, which is the expenditure that has been incurred, which has been paid in and the extraordinary expenditure that has obviously been incurred in 2022, has become a specific provision for extraordinary expenditure and, depending on the course of the pandemic, this provision will change. However, in the ordinary budgets there is a government budget of more than 250 million. And what the Prime Minister said from this step, which you have made a flag and you are trying to twist it, is what the reality is. What's the reality? That there has been a very big struggle right now knowing the pressure on the National Health System and, yes, at this pressure we have formed beds and outside of the ICU. They're not simple beds, as you say. Surgery beds are basically ITH beds, they're surgical beds. The MF beds are MF beds. For the other beds that enter monitors and respirator we try outside ITH to provide the best possible support to all of our fellow citizens. And because there is a timely question and question from SYRIZA about the evidence that you will see and that information, you will understand that it is completely different from everything you say. And all Greek citizens were given the same chance of accessing a pandemic, which is difficult, with a great deal of staff. And you come here, who are responsible for the anticipation without pandemic, and you are trying to drive the Opposition exclusively to one thing that is not discussed anywhere. We were in the Council of Health Ministers and were comfortably told by countries with large numbers, with powerful national health systems that 'we were in trouble and sent to neighbouring countries.' And there's no criticism anywhere because they're in pandemic conditions. And you come here and every day, you say announcements, actually putting what was said yesterday, the vulgar one by Mr. Kurubli. That's a covert thing you're saying. You're saying this party here is responsible. When the press spokesman says that for every one who doesn't find a IF bed, Mr. Mitsotakis is responsible, what is different from what he heard? This was simply heard in such a vulgar way that you too were forced to erase it. Of course, he will never be deleted, who has said the same thing and continues to say it. In this context, then, you are going to make a political confrontation in this regard, trying to actually show that everything in this National Health System was well burned and a COVID was found and because of COVID we have what is being presented today. So we, unlike you, put them first and put them in the middle of a pandemic, and they will be in 2022. And this is the new RHS, which Kyriakos Mitsotakis says, in which new RHS hospitals will be to serve patients. And to serve patients, hospitals means that through the Recovery Fund we will strengthen them with logistical infrastructure and equipment and building infrastructure, for which we have managed to ensure that we all fall into the National Health System there, but that we need them to be the strong hospitals that will accept the whole world that has a problem. It will support primary care with money through the Recovery Fund and the next day we will want to have created the foundations so that the conversation really starts on its real substance. The fact of the matter is that we view the pathogens of the National Health System in the midst of a pandemic as we can and protect the citizens during, but also after the pandemic, we will hand over to the Greek citizens a new RHS that will serve the public health good in a way, not dogmatic that you believe. In this new ESS will obviously be public structures, it will obviously be private and public partnerships, obviously it will be relations with the private sector, because the public good of health is the aim of this government and the public good of health can produce it all the services that exist here. We are proud to vote on the 2022 budget, which is a budget that wants to give the National Health System breath over the coming years, so that Greek citizens have the health they deserve.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u268	I have an announcement to make to this House...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u269	I would like the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u270	I too, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u271	Please! Sit down, Mr. Xanthi.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u272	I got up to see me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u273	Are you interrupting the Bureau when it announces something in this House? You asked me for something and I refused you? I mean, mercy! There are some procedures. There's a row. Oh, my God! Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u274	(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u275	Don't imply that, Mr. Polakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u276	What implied?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u277	Calm down, calm down, I understand, and I know that Mr. Xanthos as a parliamentarian wants to ask something, just like Mrs. Giannakopoulou. Let the Bureau say the announcement to give you the floor. Mercy! The communication to this House is as follows: The Minister of Finance, Mr Christos Stagios, tabled today 17-12-2021 the following draft laws:1. "To ratify the State's Financial Report 2020." 2. "To validate the Balance Sheet of the State and the other Financial Statements of the Central Administration, reference period from 1-1-2020 to 31-12-2020." They shall be referred to the Committee on the Reporting and the General Balance sheet of the State and to the review of the implementation of the State's budget. Mr. Xanthi, you obviously want to ask some questions. Please, very soon. Same goes for you, Mrs. Giannakopoulou. Then the Minister will obviously take the floor to answer to continue the process. Mr. Xanthos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u278	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I think you have made an effort today to reverse an obviously unfavourable climate, social and political, towards the government, on the basis of this publicity and the study that has now been discussed in the country. Repeat the same inaccuracies and make the same numbers of alchemys. We've answered you too many times. So since you systematically hide this, do you know how many beds New Democracy delivered in 2015? You know or you don't know? So because you know, but you don't, we'll say it. The beds were four hundred forty in 2015, really low in the history of intensive therapy in the country. And apparently there were problems and difficulties, especially when we had an outbreak of seasonal infections and respiratory infections, one or two months in winter. And apparently, when you get such an exacerbation, the health system is pressed and there are poorer results, as the study says. Is that the point that we've been looking forward to the situation before? So we received four hundred forty, added in memorial and austerity conditions - and of course without pandemic - a hundred and twenty beds, five hundred staff hired, a hundred doctors and four hundred nurses, respecting staff ratios, based on beds. You make the huge alchemy to add the two hundred fifty beds of the private sector and of the military hospitals to your account and remove it from the previous government's account. So SYRIZA did deliver five hundred sixty, increasing them by 30%, but these two hundred fifty beds of the private sector and of the military hospitals were there and then eight hundred beds were then. So you cannot compare five hundred sixty with a thousand three hundred. Or it will be eight hundred of those that SYRIZA delivered, or a thousand of yours will be. So stop mocking people, because people have realised that we have a total tragic failure, painfully, and now we don't have a two-month flare. We have basically the third wave since last autumn in a protracted crisis of staffing, operation and resilience to the health system. That is the essence of the matter, and I really think it is very irresponsible for you to come here and for the Prime Minister to come and claim that there is no difference in the quality of care between intertwined inside and outside. I and Paul Paul Paulakis recognize that there was difficulty, but we never got out to say, neither did Tsipras, that this is the same thing, because this certainly offends doctors first, nurses and, of course, society.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u279	Mrs Giannakopoulou, as much as you can, move within the time that you are given. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u280	Yes, very soon, Mr. President. Minister, I asked Mr Scorcho this morning, and I would now like to address it to you, as you are the principal responsible person, let alone since we have read and seen the Ciodra-Litra study now entering the prosecutor's microscope, in the context of the wider investigation into the ITH. The question therefore remains, Minister, and it is when and who took the Tsiodra-Lytra study into it. And to make it even clearer and more specific, when did you, Minister, know about the study and when the Prime Minister of the country? Because Mr Lytras said in a news report that he had also informed the decision-makers. Who are they? Tell us, if it's you, if it's the Prime Minister. Simple question, simple answer. You know what? I told Mrs. Gaga the other day. There are times when politicians call mea culpa, Minister, and yes, Mr Chiodra's study says something that common sense says. So Mr Mitsotakis would be better off saying 'I knew, but I underestimated it'. Because if you mean what you say about a common front against a coronary, that primarily requires honesty, to be honest and not to be hidden. Even now you are going to make substantial support for the National Health System, which is still under-represented, under-financed and equipped with staff. Tell the truth at last and really support the ESS.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u281	It is now up to the Minister for Health to answer and then continue with the speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u282	So finally from this conversation, we understand what was all about in the ICUs. It's not what you call it, Mr. Xanthi.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u283	Tell me what it's like.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u284	It's not like that. Ask Mr. Polakis how he could have been eight, nine months before he had operated the hundred and twenty beds, when they entered the CEDEFOP and took the files that the contest was. The complaint is that while operating IF beds, they were delaying the process to become a different staffing. Because these ITH beds were planned and were intended to be staffed, which you, Mr. Paulakis, have, in fact, delayed doing so and there were all these problems. Secondly, you refer to the private sector. But these beds have joined the National Health System. That's why they're counting. Clinics that are counted are those that have joined the National Health System and are managed by the National Health System.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u285	Did you develop them?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u286	So what did you want? Add beds that the National Health System does not manage? The EAW platform is used and therefore there is more than doubled of the IF beds and there is also staffing these IF beds.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u287	Now we've gone to doubling before we've had a triple...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u288	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u289	You, Mr. Xanthi, have not signed the VIP question, you have asked a special question. However, you who have the EAW system, say, can intervene in the EAW system? Can there be intervention? Can two ICU people decide who they're going to put and who they're not gonna make, or are there specific criteria? But that's what I'll see you about Monday in your timely question. Mrs. Giannakopoulou, you're addressing me. I tell you that there is no specific study you mention in the Ministry of Health that this study does not exist in the Ministry of Health. If it has been filed, I searched for the protocols, there is no statement of this study and it is clear that there was absolutely no knowledge of this study in Maximos. And what the Prime Minister of the country, Mr Mitsotakis, says, is the reference - which if you want to go to scientific data, because it is the whole debate and we need to see it as a whole - mentions the effort made with special beds outside beds, which is obviously not the same process. And if you want to go to the evidence of mortality, the evidence of mortality has to do with a series. If we go to the CFD criteria for how patients are treated, to compare them, you should see if they have the same profile, medical profile and morbidity profile, if they have the same data either inside or not in the IFC beds. The Prime Minister mentioned these things. And while today's great debate that you want to do - and finally hear it from the Greek people! - is that there has always been this problem, what we are responding to is that in this problem with the possibilities that were there we made the greatest possible development of IF beds. And finally, from this study - which you're reading fragmentally - it comes out that you should not reach a line number, because IFC beds have in this situation, the management of these incidents will have more mortality. How come you don't get to the ducts? If there were clear support for measures - either vaccination or restrictive measures - from all sides. And that is what the Government of Mrs Mitsotakis has done since the first time, and so far we can say that, with the potential we have done our best to help our fellow citizens not to be helpless and to have the National Health System - in the state that we have received it - the best possible staffing and the best possible logistics infrastructure, but that was the real potential of the National Health System. And once again let these people out, all together to say that we cannot accept complaints that doctors and nurses choose who will enter the Clinic ICM, because these people are giving the race and real people on the front line are not in the TV panels, they are in the hospitals.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u290	Mr. Dimitrios Vitsas has the floor from SYRIZA. And then the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Brutsi, will follow. Here you go, Mr. Vitsa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u291	Before I begin, I should like to give the Minutes the alternative proposal of the SYRIZA-Progressive Alliance for a strong economy and a fair society. I'm sure Mr. Stakoras will ask her, she'll take her to read her. [[At this point, Parliament's Vice-President Dimitrios Vitsas presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] Secondly, we live under two pandemics, a pandemic health and a pandemic of precision. Let's take them one by one. Mr. Plory, I'm sorry, but you were provoked to answer as a Minister of Health, and you responded like a cheap mermaid. Excuse me for the characterization, but what can we do? But even so, you admit the validity of the study. And the big political problem is why Mr. Mitsotakis here in Parliament from this Step refused to know that he knows any study that his closest partner makes. I say she's lying, she's lying, she's lying, she's lying. Why did he lie? I'm sorry, but he lied, because every word that the study writes is true, and that Dimitris Tzanakopoulos mentioned earlier, so that I don't eat you time. So what everyone understands, if someone would go and ask you a few days ago "in an ITH or outside ITH die more easily?" "unless you'd say yourself. And we're sitting here now and we're talking about it. But there is also the regional issue. Whether you're on this road, in the triangle that was mentioned and you're getting into an ICU, and you have a high chance of getting out, whether you're home, at the new hospital - supposedly - of Agrinio and the odds are being dramatically reduced, because they haven't been staffed like hospitals should. Blonde said that, too, I don't want to stay here any longer. But I want to stay on the following subject: Mr Mitsotakis comes to the House tomorrow to apologize for what he said from this Step. Because, if you have offered something to neoliberalism - and we get words that are often not understood by a piece of the world - it is the following fact that we can say what we want, that the media presents what we want and we will become believers at the end. We have heard here that the ESS can stand, that we win the virus, that we are the model of the whole of Europe. Good, the model for all of Europe has a thousand four hundred dead only in December! We're a nice model! Nice model! I'm not happy, I'm very sorry. What do you think should be done first? Defend yourself and your policy or defend society? You say that "Look to see, what to make more IT, we'll throw money!" And I hear Mrs Ghaga say yesterday that in her own hospital, 50 ICs have been added to the House and twenty ICs that were sponsored by sponsorship. Is that what you're saying we've made the I.T.? My congratulations! My congratulations! And Mr. Scorchos saying we don't need a Luxury YES. My personal opinion is that we need an ESS of luxury, because everyone has the right to have a ESS of luxury. And now we're going to the other: we're discussing a budget based on the assumption that the pandemic is no longer over. And that is what one would say that it is justified that you are cutting off the EUR 820 million, the EUR 280 million and the EUR 600 million - so that I do not repeat - and you come and say 'we have a reserve'. I'll tell you soon what will happen to the reserve. Today it has proved to be what will happen to the reserve and it is not that you do not know financially. And Mr. Skylakakis and Mr. Stakoras are excellent economists, only economists of a system, a logic. So, then, the spirit and letter of the budget - and I come to the Minister of Defence - brings us back to the era before 2008 that led the country to bankruptcy, the spirit of the "lifts are" for some of the chosen and excellent. And we come to what I told you before about the reserve. Do you know what came into our hands today, not just mine? It's no secret. What we are talking about and what you have on the armaments budget is not the case. It's not true! On Tuesday the Committee on Equipment enters the market of three plus an option for another "Belarra" french plus the six "Rafas" which are 4 billion. We will not vote for the defensive equipment. [[This is where the closing bell of the speaking time of the Vice-President is ringing.]] Secondly, no one come back here again to say that the staff is a power multiplier, because you know that for the staff, not a penny! We agreed that what was needed was to buy freshmen and suddenly we found ourselves buying 'Rafah' and to discuss buying F-35! You know what it was that led to bankruptcy last season? Corruption and defensive equipment. These two were basically something you know. So you must answer the questions asked by Yannis Drasakis, but also by Eukleidis Tsakalotos. However, I would like to ask you this: are you, ladies and gentlemen, not on the power bill? Haven't you looked at him? Is it close to previous people? Because this electricity bill you've taken now isn't the final one, it's the...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u292	O vs.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u293	...against. And this against an account is three times the previous against it. And you know, to work with a borehole, for farmers to work - Mr. Sedetakis knows it, he has full knowledge - he needs electricity. And this can mean even a food problem in our country, not only for watering, but also for farmers and for all else. So what are you going to do with it?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u294	Mr. Vitsa, please, let's finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u295	I'll close with the equipment. So, in Parliament, an exit - because I do not say that - EUR 2 billion for the Kalamata Flying Center, where the commander will be Greek, the curator will be Greek, the instructors will be Greek, the place is Greek and the "winner" - if the word is right - will be Israeli. I mean, something's going on here. We're going crazy! And he's gonna do what we've done on our own until this year. And we told the Minister to bring the contract to the House, and the Minister told us "I will bring it to you to make paper and wings". Only wings, wings in the wind! I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. So, think of the following: We need immediate and substantial support from the ESS with permanent recruitment of health, with simulations of the contractors found on the frontline of the pandemic, with an increase in pay and a steady increase in health expenditure, etc. Secondly, it needs to delete part of the private debt created during the pandemic, abolish the Mitsotakis Banking Code, leading to thousands of households, businesses and natural persons, institutionalisation, etc. However, the report or the proposal I have given you is all about it. I hope that all parties - and unfortunately my friend Thanasis is not here - have understood that it is the New Democracy Government that submits the budget. Because I heard a 20-minute speech that eighteen related to SYRIZA. And if there is no unity of the left, communists, social democrats, progressives, etc., etc., there will be no final victory. And we've lived all of Europe coming on you. In fact, not many were found to support us then, not to say that no one was found! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u296	Mr President, I would like the floor for two, three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u297	Mr Brutsis, before you took the floor, asked for a moment's intervention by the Minister of Finance, Mr Stavros. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u298	Thank you very much, Mr President. We have now been informed that SYRIZA is voting against strengthening the country's deterrent power, as it voted against all the great, correct, correct strategic alliances that the country has made over the past period. You know very well that spending is not spent in one year, but it is done in the next few years. Mr. Skolakis can give you more information. But I would like to reply to you from now on: you have challenged me to tell you whether we are taking PPC's accounts. So I'll talk to you about my own account. Clearing account for an apartment in Halandri...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u299	I'm not talking about the clearer. He's the one with the previous price.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u300	You said earlier to talk about a clearing house.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u301	I'm talking about the new guy who came yesterday.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u302	Mr. Vitsa, let the Minister answer as he wants. You won't tell him!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u303	I'm talking about the quarter. The charge should have been plus 195,43 euros. On the top there is a line that says 'energy discount 50,93'. This is PPC's discount. On top there are TEM, Energy Transfer Fund. In September a second line, in October, in November, in the third line. This is all about 117-118 euros. What, then, does that account say? That the state has helped the household, but has not covered - we must be honest - the overall increase in electricity. Therefore, we see the important contribution of the state that covers the largest part of the really large increase in electricity, but does not provide full coverage. For this reason, we have collectively committed ourselves as a government with the Ministry of Energy to do everything possible and to announce further interventions immediately, in order to further reduce this gap between state aid and the real cost of electricity. We will continue in this direction, because in the field of energy, as we have done in the health crisis, we are building a safety net above households and businesses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u304	The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Brutsi, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u305	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u306	No, Mr. Vitsa.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u307	How not?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u308	I don't understand. Why?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u309	But he's answering me!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u310	What's he gonna say he's answering you? Good, answer you. Answer the MPs. In other words, when a minister responds to MPs, should parliamentarians take the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u311	Excuse me, but I ask you to speak for a minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u312	Mr. Vitsa, don't embarrass me. You're a Vice President! Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u313	Am I embarrassing you?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u314	But it's not a procedure. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u315	Mr President, when an intervention concerns SYRIZA, you are showing an unjustified obsession.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u316	Please. Please. Mr. Brutsi, come to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u317	Will the Minister bring us his next clearing account? Get him here!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u318	Mr. Brutsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u319	Thank you, Mr President. When we discussed the budget for 2021 a year ago, I remember the attack and obsession of the SYRIZA with arguments of the form "you will see that all that is written in your budget will collapse", "it is a virtual reality", "we will have the closure of thousands of businesses, while at the same time what will happen in 2021 will be the collapse of the labour market". That's what SYRIZA said. These are recorded in the Minutes. That's what you said last year. I have now heard the chosen and loved all Mr Vitsa adding another argument to this budget. He predicted a nutritional problem in Greece. That's what he said just before. It seems that SYRIZA, ladies and gentlemen, sometimes has a problem with his predictions and it is a serious issue that you need to see because it is an unreliability that the Greek people judge, see and appreciate. I am now returning a few hours ago when Mr Tsakalotos, the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, from this step by trying to prove the social analgesia of the New Democracy, said that all that New Democracy said and brought together as social measures form a neo-Kenish policy, but at the end of the process it is an irreversible policy. In other words, Mr Chakalotos described our neo-Kennesian policy. Mr. Chakaloto, I'm talking about the neo-Kenish policy you mentioned about the New Democracy. So I say: If, Mr Tsakaloto, after the EUR 43.3 billion that we have given to support the labour market, and which the project has achieved, we have kept it alive and reduced unemployment further, as I will say, if, with the money we have given with the repayable advances, we have kept the businesses alive, and you say it, Neo-Kennesian policy, I ask: When you have been ruling out pensions, you have abolished the special VAT regime on the Aegean islands, you have brought the release of redundancies for the first time in the Labour Law of the country and you have put all the public property of the country in the Supreme Court of Justice, how do I call it? New capitalism? So you must be careful, because you have ruled. And because the footprint of your government is engraved in the memory of the Greek people and in the economy you must be more careful. Ladies and gentlemen, as today's process is completed with a number of colleagues from all sides of this House who have been placed for the budget, I personally characterise our country's budget, which is introduced by the Ministry of Finance, as a budget that is realistic, responsible and a budget for returning to normality. And I say this because it is based on two main axes: Axle number one. It is a development budget combined with its social dimension. This is in a few words the budget that is called tomorrow to vote on the Greek Parliament or reject it. Question: Why do you say that, New Democracy Parliamentary Representative? Because today, December 2021, and in an energy crisis environment, pandemic, unprecedented problems for the country and the world, we can safely make an assessment of the government's work as a whole in 2021, which, in two words, I could call as a flood of reforms in all areas of the government, in all the ministries. I'm keeping a list of the ministries of the country, the ministers and the bills that went through the House, and I don't know where to start and where to end. For example, for the criticism of the Ministry of Education. Ministry of Education: Re-establishment of pilot schools. Does he need it or does the country need it? Appointments to thousands of teachers or the abolition of asylum or vocational training. Ministry of the Interior: Antonis Tritsis programme for local government and a new electoral law for local government. Ministry of Justice: New Criminal Code. Ministry of Public Works: The whole country is a construction site, stopped works open, new public works are being formed everywhere and the great reform of the change in public procurement that solves a problem of decades for the country is being solved. Ministry of the Environment: Interconnection of the Cyclades with electric cable, continues with the interconnection of the electric cable with Crete, a green transition, degreasing and forest maps. I am talking about headlines underneath there are too many policies. Ministry of National Defence: Armouration of the country, as Mr Vitsats said before, with 'Rafa' and freshmen. Ministry of Foreign Affairs: A series of international conventions - alliances made by our country. The Greek alliance and the alliance with the United States in defence level. Ministry of Digital Policy: Change page, proceed to a new digital world, dozens of changes to the country's digital map. Ministry of Development: Tens of large businesses trust the country, return to Greece or others come for the first time and come in a few days and the new development law of the Ministry. Ministry of Shipping: Island policy, support for our coastline and seamen during the pandemic period, brave with many millions. I will challenge ministries that I did not mention. Ministry of Culture: With the support of the world of culture and with many works opened by the Ministry of Culture for the next period. A relative reference was made by me just before the criticism of Ms. Mendonis about the Cyclades and the great effort that has been made for the first time to highlight all Byzantine and archaeological monuments of the Cyclades. I live as a member of the Cyclades. That's the reality, and that's what happened in 2021. But there's a question now. I didn't mention two ministries, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Labour. Here I would like to make a few more specific points. How can we judge the budget, ladies and gentlemen? Only with economic data that are captured. That is why I mentioned the budget as a realistic budget. And in 2021 the budget for 2022 was confirmed and now the budget for 2022 has the means to record in 2021 what was done in the country and what forecasts we have for 2022. Is it or isn't growth 6.9%? Are you questioning it? Oh, no. What are you questioning? That the percentage ratio is made on the basis of a recession of 9%. Yes, that is true, but we also have a 6.9% growth that forms an environment in GDP of 70% that covers losses compared to 2019. In a pandemic, we entered an uncharted sea that was unprecedented for the country, which all countries have faced. We cover within 2021 70% of the lost territory of the country's wealth. And what does the budget say? Mr Stavoura, I consider the evidence you're putting down to be underestimated. You'll be disobeyed again. Growth will be higher for both 2021 and 2022. So be more careful. With the figures shown in the 2022 budget, we fully outweigh the 2019 losses and increase GDP by 1.7% in 2022. Is it realistic and responsible, or is it not the budget? At the same time we have, from 2021 to 2022, an increase of 2.6% in the number of jobs. At the same time - and I come a little to my exes - we have something very important. It's the denial that started with Mr. Vitsa and SYRIZA that sometimes their predictions fall out. Instead of collapseing the labour market, something unprecedented has been done in relation to the rest of Europe. Greece is a champion in the declining of unemployment within the pandemic. Question: What are you talking about? I'm not talking about it. They say that the details of ELSTAT and EUROSTAT are correct. Only these are the elements that we can trust. So what do the evidence say? In 2019 unemployment is at 18%, 2020 is at 16.3%, 2021 is at 15.9% and 2022 is projected to 14.2%. In other words, four units under the two and a half years of government of the New Democracy. More specifically, at month-to-month analysis: in July 2019, when the national elections were held, unemployment was 17.3%. In October 2021, with ELSTAT's previous figures, unemployment was 13.3%. That's four points down. Employment in July 2019: 3,914 million, October 2021: 4,27 million. Employment growth by 2.8%. That's the truth. That is why the budget, apart from a developmentist, is also social, because at the end of an entire debate that can be held, what is interesting to see is how it is reflected in man, how it is reflected in the worker, how it is reflected in the pensioner, how it is reflected in our weak fellow citizen. I heard a review of the insurance policy. I want us to be generally very careful. I said it with my previous capacity and I will not stop saying it as long as I exist in the Greek Parliament, because the insurance was one of the main causes of the country's financial derailment in the past. It was disproportionate what we have done and used and used in the past, with the responsibilities of all of us, as a tool for the takeover of votes. That's how it worked. But today, as we have learned from the past, we must be very serious, be consistent, accountable, realistic in our policies. Law 4670/2020 is a law that took over the past and now comes to shape the insurance landscape in the country by 2070. It is a law that has been measured, assessed by the Ageing Working Group, which also sees insurance costs in relation to the AEP to reduce and align with the average European countries by 2030 and at the same time with respect to pensioners, which are positive and I do not see why you do not admit it. For example, the increase in pensions for those with thirty years of working life and over. That's what he did and what he's doing? Is this about the present? I say this because today there is a confusion. We are talking about the current pensioners who some people did not actually take because they were offset by the personal difference that came from the law of SYRIZA, the Katrugalos law in the past. We're over it. It concerns the future, the millions of Greeks, young children, new generations that are today and will come through the labour market as retired people in the future. It creates, cultivates insurance, because they will know that those who work thirty years and over will receive a multiple pension. So it mobilizes two things: being in the labour market and the labour market giving you - using old terms - your badges or insurance contributions. It is therefore a good thing for the young worker, for the worker no longer to hide the insurance contributions. The second is the element on which we were committed in the run-up to the election. Those contributions you put, Mr Chakaloto, which have been overturned by our law and we now have the free accusations of a million and a half free professionals who can now choose their own free charge. Also, with regard to the issue of undeclared work and undeclared work, I would remind you that the large part of the labour market was made with a fine of EUR 10,500 in 2013, which changed history in the labour market in Greece. Of 42.5% that was undeclared work today is less than 4% or 3%, combined with "ERGANI", which I am glad to see today that the new Minister of Labour has maintained and strengthend the framework established since 2014. The "ERGANI" informs the Greek Parliament that it had three levels: the first level was "ERGANI 1" through which we measured employment flows. No one could escape. That's why undeclared work has been hit. At that time, the alleged work, the "ERGAN 2", which was voted on in the House, began. He'll hit the implied job by electronic time. These are pro-laboratory measures. And is Ergan 3 coming, which we have included in the Recovery Fund, which will do? It will abolish the detailed periodic declaration and replace the insurance contributions and revenues of the Funds through the ‘ERGANIS’. It will bring multiple revenues, Mr. Psulakakis, - we have discussed it - to the insurance funds, because there is a dimension between a detailed periodical statement and "ERGANIS". These are charitable policies. In practice, however, not in words. When we talk about social policy, what is the minimum guaranteed income? Is it not today the modern pillar of the country that was formed in 2014, has SYRIZA called a "poverty trap" and then held it, and today is the most powerful pillar for protecting the weak, combined with the A21 - made in 2014 - with which we support family allowances for weak families with children? Aren't these social policies? And I have to say something because I heard a SYRIZA MEP say something about the pension award. I would therefore like to say - and I have said before - that the issue of the award of pensions is the last sign of the insurance problem. If we leave the system completely free today and there is no organisational intervention or effort to award pensions, with mathematical certainty, with Law 4670, as the schemes have been integrated, pensions will come out in a second. That will be the time because everything has been digitised and unified in the future. The problem is for now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u320	Mr. Brutsi, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u321	I'm closing, Mr. President. I would like to have the same time as the JRC parliamentary representative who spoke for twenty-one minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u322	I interrupt, firstly, to remind you of the time and secondly, to tell you that tomorrow you will have the denology in the morning. You won't have time for him now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u323	All right, Mr. President. Question: Have pensions been awarded with one click? Answer that is a form of news: Many times you commented on saying "studies with one click". The first step of the digital pension “ATLAS” made in April 2020 for OGA pensions and widow’s pensions is a reality. To date, forty-six thousand pensions have been given in a second. It's about three thousand a month, you know, your auto pensions. It is therefore necessary to extend the digital version of the 'ATLAS', to digitize the system, to go to the other categories. I would now like to address - and I am closing, Mr President - to all sides of this House and, above all, to the Ministry of Finance, to the staff of the dear ministers, to say that the challenges opened after the vote on this budget are before us. In the 2022 budget for 2023 we go forward and we need to see what the challenges are. What are the challenges? Firstly, the reductions in contributions will become permanent. Secondly, to maintain the abolition of the solidarity levy in the public sector as well and to become permanent as it is in the private sector today. Thirdly, the special VAT arrangements for the Aegean islands should be reintroduced. Fourthly, raise the minimum wage bravely. This is where we all agree. The Prime Minister and the Minister for Labour have made statements that this will happen in 2022. We're waiting for it. Fifthly, to reduce unemployment further. It goes without saying. Sixth challenge, the issue of addressing. And finally, the national objective, the problem of demographics, is the seventh challenge. We need to find ways to deal with it. I should like to conclude by making a point about the Cyclades Prefecture, which also concerns the government as a whole, Ministers. In recent years we have achieved something important - I will not divide it into the New Democracy - regarding the problem of ship repair policy - our country was the first one in shipping to have no shipyard - in Neorio, Syros. Today we are happy to see four hundred workers working. We see the arrow ships waiting for their turn to enter the new tanks. There is, unfortunately, a move from some organisations that undermine the efforts of Neorio. Neorio, ladies and gentlemen, is the compass for what should happen to both Elefsina and Scaramaga. This must be the future of our country in the shipyards. With these thoughts, with these forecasts, with these estimates and hope for something better, I hope - because the closure of the budget is customary to give the wishes, even though it is still early, but this is how it is - and Merry Christmas and happily and better in 2022. With faith and trust in science to preserve our supreme good of health. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u324	The next speaker is Mr Euripidis Stylianides, from the New Democracy. After Mr Stylianidis, the parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, Mr Giannakopoulou, will follow. You have the floor, Mr. Stylianides.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u325	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will not follow the organized effort of SYRIZA colleagues in the last three days to make the debate on the budget one-thematic, firstly, because, in what they have chosen, they have responded to the substance, convincingly and apostomatically, the Minister for Health and, secondly, because their attitude itself states that they accept inability to compare with government policy as a whole. And now, because they have a past, they can't stand comparisons anymore. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget that we are voting on today is nationally critical, because it is an instrument of exit from a multi-dimensional test that this government has been asked to face since the first time it took the popular mandate. This test has become unprecedentedly complex because it has emerged in parallel and combined in four areas: economic and social cohesion, energy self-sufficiency and climate change, health and the social state, and finally, national security and defence. In the field of the economy and society, our Government was called upon to manage the restoration of the consequences of the greatest post-war crisis experienced not only by Greece - mainly Greece - but also by the whole of Europe. We were called upon to restore the social injustices created by the Memorandum shock, to protect social cohesion, to shield historically, human rights and to create equal opportunities for recovery for all Greeks, but, at the same time, to change the international image of the country that had been unjustly and inadmissible, with responsibility among others, and some of the political forces that called the Greek shipwreck economy and the people of Greece corrupted. In the field of energy security we have been faced with an escalating energy crisis that is not only linked to the geopolitical competitions of the major powers, but also to the rapid climate change that has multiplied natural disasters, creating strong reflexive responses to the relevant state services. This has not prevented us from continuing to protect the people's income from the high cost of energy, without stopping the necessary reforms and turning to alternative energy or pipeline diplomacy, which our prolongation has started at risk and cost, once paid dearly by the Karamanlis government, but has benefited Greece, placing it definitively on the international map as an energy hub and as a guarantor of Europe's energy security. In the field of the health crisis, the government moved quickly, boldly and responsibly, promoting the value of human life and public health as opposed to other European governments. He transformed the crisis into an opportunity to shield the health system, covering weaknesses and correcting significant mistakes and omissions of the past. He did not give in to populism, and he did not collapse in the barren controversy chosen by some of the Oppositions, investing unacceptablely in the human suffering suffered by the loss of many human souls. At the same time, the handling of the Mitsotakis Government has vehemently kept the balance, fully shielding the constitutional framework for protecting human rights against the threat of it being broken. This battle continues even more vigorously, highlighting Greece as a leading humanity and efficiency player. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, in the field of national security and defence, Greece has shown that it knows, wants and can protect Europe's borders from the threat of a hybrid war that seeks to work for immigration, but does not make the slightest reduction in the protection of human rights. We strongly defend international law, protecting our national laws and interests through it. Our foreign policy, combined with the modernisation and strengthening of our Armed Forces, is not heterogeneously defined. He capitalises on Greece's allied consistency in relation to Turkish reform and strengthens the negotiating power of the country. We insist on patriotism that isolates the great and threatening ethnicism of the extreme right and the dangerous and naive internationalism of the Left. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget we are discussing insists on the axes that I have described, without, at the same time, reluctant to pursue intelligent reforms and the qualitative development of a real and not virtual economy. It does not accuse dead-end neoliberal self-regulation of the market that creates injustices, nor, of course, the bankrupt state-parliamentary models of the Left. Recognises the historical justification of the social market economy, justifies the state's regulatory and social role, trusts the private initiative, invests in innovation, accepts profit and ambition as healthy incentives for the creation of the Greeks, as long as they pass through the public, social and national interests. Our policy restates the worthy code of radical liberalism, justifying the historical identity of this party. It identifys the people with the nation and clearly demonstrates the inefficiency and inadequate theory of the Greek central left or left, whatever names and faces may change. Nothing's over yet. Our struggle is difficult and constant. However, I am sure that the strategy followed by the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis will be justified, because the New Democracy does not separate Greeks from fans and opponents, progressive and conservative, from right-wing and left-wing parties, such as other anti-population parties. We appeal to all Greeks and all Greek women, because we all care about them because they are in our DNA a genuine folk party, just as Constantine Karamanlis founded it. And that can no longer be called into question or changed. For these reasons, we support this budget as a bridge to a better reality for Greece and the Greeks. Thank you for many years, good holidays to everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u326	The parliamentary representative of the Change Movement now has the floor, Mrs Konstantina Giannakopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u327	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, over the last four days in this Chamber, all the Members of Parliament, colleagues from all political areas, have been called upon to vote for the 2022 budget. In no case, however, should we forget this: in addition to all political, social and economic considerations, this debate is taking place for another year in specific circumstances that bring us before new challenges and possibilities, but also at risk. Unfortunately, the concept of a state's budget and the feeling of stability to be extracted from this process, in the last two years, and due to the exceptional circumstances, is missing, because the elements which lead to the establishment of such a planning framework for the national economy are well known now that they can easily be overturned in the next few months. That is why I want to focus not so much on the technical analysis of the budget, as it has been tabled, but on the objectives that it sets out, by setting out the intentions, political priorities and planning, the general direction of the government for the economy of the country and the impact of this policy on Greek society. The debate on the budget has always attracted interest in the whole of the political world, the press and the citizens. The placement of each of us and, by extension, of the political parties constituted by the Greek Parliament, made it clear in the public debate that the economic planning for the Greek enterprises is politically addressed for the banking system, for the regional and local authorities, for the incomes of the middle Greek family and, consequently, for each Greek and every Greek family. Already the 2022 budget is intended to bring budgetary figures closer to the surpluses that will be required from 2023 onwards, when the stability pact will be lifted. As a target for the future, it is legitimate, but the choices are the ones that need criticism. The government seeks to present through the explanatory statement of the budget - and a horror of course - in 2022 as a year of total reinstatement and return to normality. But what is the reality, ladies and gentlemen? Investment and growth are yet another expectation, one thing. Unemployment is maintained at a high level. Any marginal reductions in taxes, contributions and any allowances you have complained about, but now you are giving, do not improve the position of those who have accepted the unprecedented tax raid in the past six years. I refer to the middle class that each time is defined differently. Even the relatively positive demographic image of the government for the economy - which is getting worse, of course - is due to a hope rather than to tangible policies and results. Here, ladies and gentlemen, we must point out that the Greek economy has probably paid the most expensive financial ticket in Europe for a recovery which is short of the other European countries. The problem today more than ever is to see, in general, the country's progress towards where we want to go. Some very serious problems are already here and their consequences in the immediate future seem enormous. Uncontrolled pricing, especially fuel and energy, the European Union's dependence on gas, the huge crisis in the supply chain and product markets cause the political system to act immediately. Together with these, we cannot overlook the great needs to meet the pandemic and to strengthen the ESS, to address the age of the climate crisis and to shield civil protection and, of course, to the major issue of demographics. Ladies and gentlemen, according to the latest figures, the energy crisis and the 5% inflation will be the biggest problems following the pandemic called on by each Greek household and every Greek company to deal with. Their effects are already evident in Greek society. This budget that has been submitted seems not to take seriously these two decisive factors that form new data in the economy of all countries now and in our own economy. I am sure you cannot say, Mr President-in-Office, that you did not know or ask for tolerance to what we will be summoned as a country to deal with these areas in particular. From September we at the Change Movement warned you. We stressed the need for a package of measures to be taken in the face of this whole lot of rises and rises in energy costs. The answer we received from the Prime Minister himself was once again virtual reassuring, but you can no longer hide behind promises and alleged commitments. The first liquidation of PPC and other energy companies has already reached Greek households and small and medium-sized enterprises. What do you have to say now and what do you have to answer them through this budget for 2022 for everything that will follow in the next few months? Any explanation for all the above on behalf of the government will only be heard as an excuse. We all know that, although energy accuracy has been affected by international turbulence - and yes, this is a fact - Greece over the past few months has been unjustifiably one of the most expensive countries at the wholesale price of electricity. Your Government once again was forced to run behind events and behind developments, as it certainly does in the field of health in these twenty months of pandemic, and that is the truth. We have a country that has been stifling ten years with the crisis and we still have not stabilised a development path that can guarantee the power of the country, the real improvement of people's lives. There is no strategic plan while, Minister, over-optimism with forecasts of growth, at the same time as the forecasts of all international organisations are more restrained and all can be reversed by the slowdown of the international economy and by the escalation of geopolitical tension. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the recovery for a large part of the vulnerable groups, but also for many of the employees, pensioners and small and medium-sized enterprises not only has no real impact, but also, through accuracy, leads to a rapid reduction in their income available. Even the increase in employment is done in a labour market with many distortions at the expense of workers. No answer is given by reading the draft law to reduce the consumer confidence index, to review and to increase energy costs, with the famous adjustment clause that unthinkably loads the electricity bills received by companies, to reduce the turnover in the retail trade and to focus at least 30% after the necessary new measures have been implemented. All of these are clear signs that, despite the recovery of 2021, there is a serious risk that growing inflation will now make Greek households virtually pigs in per capita income. Noteworthy, Ministers, is the report of the Institute for Small Enterprises of GSEW which detects an increase in debts, extensive insecurity, fragile sustainability and risk of mass locking in small and medium-sized enterprises on the return of the economy in relatively normal conditions and the withdrawal of support measures for enterprises. After all, no one can deny that small and medium-sized business has suffered much in recent years and are now beyond their survival limits and their strengths have been exhausted. Let us also not forget that red loans are not going down, while the country is still in a phase of credit shrinking. The government is waiving, but the fact is that the nominal value of the loans managed by the loan-management companies in June 2021 exceeded EUR 61,7 billion, totalling EUR 29,4 billion still within banks’ balance sheet reaches EUR 91 billion. It should be noted that in their take-off in 2017, non-performing loans reached EUR 107 billion. So the reduction from the arrangements and write-offs of loans for which your Government is taking over - and before SYRIZA - is far away, far away from satisfactory. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need some time, Mr. President. But let us also see one more pathetic thing, one more wound of the Greek society that touches every house and what the budget for this year's budget is for this area. And of course, it is about what it is like to do and how the government decides to resolve the enormous social security problem next year. The budgetary text provides for an increase in expenditure on main pensions by just EUR 50 million. In fact, in 2022 neither the outstandings of the main pensions nor the pensioners without the pensions will receive the amounts due, as the number of applications, masters and supplementary pensions, is much higher than those of these estimates. As far as income from insurance contributions is concerned, your prediction, Minister, is not just over-optimistic, but, in fact, out of reality. For example, for September the revenue from private sector contributions decreased by EUR 160 million, with the well-known liquidity problems of small and medium-sized enterprises and the wages of residents. So that is an unrealistic prediction. That is why the institutions also provide for revenues reduced by EUR 500 million in relation to the budget forecasts. So, as very easily can be seen, the budget for the insurance sector is inappropriate and is out of reality. It hides serious deficits, while the prospects for a substantial reduction in outstanding pensions, despite the ongoing declarations on this, are minimal. This year's budget, ladies and gentlemen, is another demonstration of what we have said as a Change Movement for the government's so-called philosophical policy. Its election promises, your pre-election promises, Minister, to restore the ESS - remember it? - not just were not implemented, but now the ministers of the government argue about why they cannot be given to their beneficiaries again. This year's budget is also being tabled by the Government, which let us not forget in this Chamber that it has stubbornly refused the amendment that the Change Movement has tabled twelve whole times for the integration into the heavy and unhealthy health of workers in the health sector, the same government that, despite the opposite and explicit provision of the law that it voted for, illegally cuts the whole pension by 30%, even if the low pensioner makes a cut in the month. Ladies and gentlemen, for the end of my speech I leave the most important and topical issue, which has to do with the management of the pandemic and the support of the ESS, which is a top priority for us, and this is why our new President, Nikos Androullakis, has today visited the Salvation Hospital, where he was informed by the President and by the workers, stressing the need for all to be vaccinated, but also stressing the need for substantial support from the ESS. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, we in the Greek Parliament must change first to change the climate in society. In any case, the pandemic must not become an area of opposition and conflict by anyone. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, first of all you must listen better to the scientists first and foremost, and why not, I will tell you, the proposals of counter-population when they are right. It is true, ladies and gentlemen of the government, that you have not done everything well. In transport, supermarkets, schools, stadiums, and generally where there are many people, measures are not fully respected. These and other spaces are outbreaks of contamination, supertransmission. We must convince our fellow citizens to be vaccinated at all costs. We need to speak clearly and bravely. Yes, the obligation must be imposed where necessary by scientists. And, unfortunately, the ministers are evading you. Today I asked the question of compulsory vaccination in the safety bodies and Mr Theodorikos has stubbornly refused it. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] We've been at PASOK for a long time. We must not just look together, but we must be truly united, truly serious, ladies and gentlemen, away from screaming, away from irresponsible, away from inconsistency, away from intolerance. All of us are wrong, and all of us are of this sort, and not only do they not solve the problem, but they are getting worse instead. The ESS - it is evident to everyone anymore - remains subordinated, remains underfinanced, its staff are limited to overhaul. We therefore need real and substantial support from the National Health System. He needs resources and he needs human resources. You could've done better. Do it even now. Ladies and gentlemen, we in the Western world and in the other developed countries have free gifts for vaccines, and many refuse stubbornly, not only to do so but also to fight them. However, there are also countries which do not have vaccines and some of these vaccination rates are nonexistent. The world community cannot - and we must all understand that - ever get out of the vicious circle that has entered, if our political viewpoint is so short and everyone thinks it is just enough to take care of themselves if we do not help these countries to be vaccinated too. Ladies and gentlemen, I would really like to be much more optimistic. But the budget you have tabled, the budget that has been submitted, Mr Ministers, does not allow me to do so. We are far from being able to convince that the country's future, for the country and for the people, will be able to be with this budget what they deserve and what can really make their lives better. For all these reasons, we are voting against the budget, but we are also voting in favour of the provisions on national defence and on the Presidency of the Republic. Thank you very much and good holidays to everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u328	Thank you. We are now continuing with Mrs Jakris from SYRIZA, followed by Mr Mylonakis, Parliamentary Representative, Mrs Kasimatis and we are completing Mr Anastasiades. Mrs. Jackrey, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u329	Ladies and gentlemen, the budget is indeed the most important bill for every government. It is important, I would say, that the main financial instrument, which actually helps the state to carry out its economic function in relation to fiscal, economic and social policy. In short, ladies and gentlemen of the government, the budget reflects your priorities. But let's see what the conditions are and above all the economy. First you raised the debt again. It was at 179% of GDP in 2017, at 186% in 2018 and at 180% in 2019 and now, Minister, it is at 206%. It ended again at the end of 2020. In conclusion, I should just like to say to you that we are first in the European Union in 2020 in terms of the level of public debt and second in terms of deficit and GDP, we are second in terms of last Bulgaria. We're even outdated by Romania. The forecast for the general government's primary deficit is 5.3% for 2021. The report predicted a primary deficit of 3.9% and 2023 0.9%. And in the 2022 budget that we are now discussing, there is a violent adjustment of EUR 9.7 billion, otherwise 5.4% of GDP, to reduce the deficit from 7.7%, which is now, to 1.4%. This, ladies and gentlemen, is a violent, brutal adaptation which, as we all understand, has a catalyst in the vast majority of people's households and Greek businesses. And this violent adjustment will continue in 2023, because we all realise that a primary surplus has to be achieved. These, Minister, are monumental cuts. That's what this is about. This is about the 2022 budget. Your predictions are for growth of 6.9%, which is not for celebrations, because the comparison is with 2020, which we have had a recession of 9%. The economy, as you can see, is in a critical state and this has its print on all the social classes and on all the population. I'll start first from public health and especially from the pandemic. Your government has thrown a white towel in the management of the pandemic. You wait a year for the virus to make its circle and in this pandemic wave, the fourth pandemic wave. That's why we have this launch, our country is a champion in the deaths of the civilized world. We've got hundreds of dead every day. Has the National Health System collapsed and the main one? Health workers in the National Health System have been exhausted and are on their limit. So what does the public health budget foresee? There are 197 million euros less to be the revenues of hospitals, which means that the outstanding debts will be put off. Transfers from the state budget to hospitals and the U.S. are EUR 280 million reduced. The transfers for primary care are EUR 124 million reduced, i.e. by about 34% and for all staff in the RIS the expenditure is EUR 61 million smaller and there is a concern about fixed-term contracts, which end in March. And in this climate came about, and the Tsiodra-Lytra study - where Mr. Plearis told us that he doesn't want to hear about it at all, is particularly disturbing to him - that, in essence, what he says to us? That you have known since May and you have done absolutely nothing and then you have waited for the citizens to believe that you are supposedly interested in their lives and, indeed, to get vaccinated. The Prime Minister himself undermined the vaccination programme, which was lying and mocking the Greek people 15 days ago in this Chamber, from this Stepma, when he said that it was the same in and out of the ICU, and that there was no study that proves the opposite and caused us, if we have, to bring the study to him. And he had it in his drawer! What was that study saying? In short, he said the National Health System would not last, but you did absolutely nothing. Instead, close intensive care units and shrink clinically. All of this is in the study. We have, of course, preferred, in your loving habit, instead of strengthening the National Health System, you to fund mass media in order not to know your inability and your indifference to the citizens of this country. In another way, ladies and gentlemen, these thousands of deaths could not be explained. It is the treatment of pandemic as a transient boor, the reason why the Prime Minister, Ministers and government officials are engaged in these unscientific nonsense about the need for the ICUs, about the mortality in intensive care units, but also in beds outside ICUs. That is why, on Tuesday, we have mourned a hundred and thirty fellow people, and since the beginning of the pandemic, we have exceeded nineteen and a half thousand deaths. It is clear that the government ignores every solution available to deal with the pandemic and insists on moving the only nickname that it has left, which is the separation of society into vaccinated and invasive. This is also the biggest confession of its failure. The same applies to EEAS. While its revenue is projected to increase by EUR 310 million, sickness costs will be reduced by EUR 245 million and the closed budget for private providers will be reduced by EUR 16 million compared to 2021. The only cost of the EEA is the pharmaceutical industry, and that is only EUR 100 million. In other words, with this budget, the government is calling for adequate doses of monoclonal antibodies, while only for December, such as the United Kingdom, have already purchased eight hundred thousand doses of monoclonals, and this is reflected in the insignificant numbers of coronary deaths on a daily basis. All the above facts mean that, in the new year, the transfer of care costs to the public will continue, as it is a strategic option for this government to transfer all regular surgery to private hospitals. And as far as development is concerned, what should I start? All forecasts, all estimates are based on two assumptions: The gradual return to everyday life in health and the rapid disbursement of the resources of the Recovery Fund. However, any estimates are based on assumptions, such as an increase in private consumption, an increase in tourism and the development measures that this government has supposedly taken, but which are no data at all. The planned increase of 6.9%, as I have already said, results in comparison with the 2020 ratio at a time when the economy was practically closed and this is a fact that you deliberately avoid. The vast majority of society also know very well that such development is probably not of concern to it at all, because it is only about the few and the chosen ones. It's all subject to the need for the great business interests. And you know why? Because workers will see no increase in their wages but a 50-minute coup, and workers will be tempted between work and unemployment to gain from EUR 200 to 400, with no working hours and no protection, because collective bargaining has been abolished. The constant reference to the increase in Greek exports, especially in recent years, covers the real pathogenicity of the Greek economy, which includes the non-creating of jobs and the disproportionately small increase in the value added of products exported by Greece, which, along with the parallel increase in imports, expands the trade deficit. Let me remind you that the enlargement of the trade deficit reminds you of situations before our introduction to the 2010 memorandum. As stated in the text, a key role in boosting economic activity in 2022 is the Greek recovery plan and disbursement from the Recovery Fund, which is indeed a historic opportunity for Greece, whose proper use of resources, which is EUR 31.2 billion, can change the overall picture. What do we see here, though? For 2021 the expenditure was EUR 2 billion less than planned. How will it be ensured that in 2022 this situation will be reversed and expenditure will exceed EUR 3.2 billion and the banking system will quickly and effectively channel the relevant funds into the real economy? The budget does not in fact include any new measures to deal with accuracy. The EUR 523 million for electricity bills, which do not come from the state budget, but from the Fund for the Rights of Renewable Energy and the remaining EUR 90 million for the heating allowance, also from the same fund, is in no way sufficient to alleviate the impact of the explosion of fuel prices, basic living and food goods. I would even say that they are aspirins in cancer. There is no provision, too, for the effective and effective relief of the rural world. I am referring to agricultural oil. The EUR 50 million allocated only to young farmers, a few who are collective - to say cooperative - and the vast majority of two thirds are left without any aid at all. In agricultural current we already have 20% increases in the September tariffs and also in the various influxes. In the fertilisers, I can only tell you that we already have a median increase of 68.5% in prices. Minister, with the budget you have tabled, it is obvious that you are reintroducing Greece to a moratorium on cutbacks. This text is a declaration of compliance with the decision-makers, of which you depend, and from which we were relieved, SYRIZA released us in 2018. It is your essentially written test to the lenders in order to salvage your position and to cover the frightful failure of the Prime Minister, who is the first to receive full funds and is the first to destroy them, to deliver burnt land. The only hope in this budget is that it is your last budget, because - you want, you do not want - in 2022 you will go to elections. You will go to elections, and then you will collect the hands of the people's wrath. Governance, ladies and gentlemen, is not communication, and the time of the crisis comes quickly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u330	We continue with the Parliamentary Representative from the Greek Solution, Mr Mylonakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u331	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, we have been discussing the 2022 budget for four days. If, Minister, because you're a man who's been talking to the world a life and you know his problems, we're going for a walk in the neighborhoods or tonight if each of us gets a phone to see if his relative, his friend, the man next door, understood what we want to say about the next year about his life, I'm sure he hasn't understood anything. We hear billions, we hear about GDP, but what about this? A budget which, otherwise than its registration, is in deficit. I would remind you of last year's debate here again, which we had not predicted that we should borrow 40 billion, if you would like the previous year of 2019 to 2020, so that we could cover what would be done. And we have a fourth pandemic in front of us in progress. They say we'll have a fifth pandemic in progress. But, as we will see in spending, these are not within. These have been forgotten. He said: 'I have a pillow'. If the Ministry of Health needs it, I'll give it to him." Previously, the Minister showed a PPC account, Minister. We all know that since October the PPC accounts have doubled. He confessed. "We are trying..." - says - "... to give help as long as we can." As you know, we have doubled PPC's accounts and triple gas. To those who have gas right now - you'll see it in northern Greece that the area is colder and it needs the fuel - the account tripled. They paid 80-90 euros a month, now they pay 300. The oil's two and a half times over. And you know what people say? You and the three hundred are talking about billions, and I put my hand in my pocket, and I can't find a tenth to fill in my oil. In terms of instalments, because you are dealing with taxation, in October, six hundred thousand people, our fellow citizens, our compatriots - you know it well - were unable to cover their tax obligations. Why is that? Those people were bad payers? No, of course not. These people paid the IRS every month. They couldn't do it in October, because in October the schools started, the kids wanted shoe, they wanted to get something, the electricity came, and then the whole other tsunami comes along plus the doses they had put before PPC, plus the water, plus the phone, plus the rent or the loan. And the other one says: I get 600 euros, 700 euros, 800, 1,000 euros, the retired 300, 400, 500 euros, what will I pay out of all this, Minister? I think it's understood by everyone. Every reasonable man I think he will understand that this year's budget, the 2022 budget, is not only a deficit in the first place, but we will need many billions to complete again. And you know these billions we are lending now, even at a small interest rate, because we are producing nothing - nothing, absolutely nothing - all this will come to repay them to our children and our grandchildren and we, Minister, I am sure that since 2023, there will be tough fiscal adjustment, we will start a process again, an adventure to have new memoranda. And then they'll all understand what's going on and what happened in the past few years. Mr. Ploris, the Minister of Health, who is a young man, a educated man, and instead of saying an apology, instead of trying to justify unjustified health and health conditions today with the deaths, so many deaths of our compatriots, come and speak for 2015, what happened in 2016 and 2017. Is that what the Greek people are interested in? What happened in 2015, in 2016 on SYRIZA, who promised everything and ruined Greece even more, while you who promised a better day, came and destroyed everything? Why should we not go to 2012, 2013, 2014 when the hospitals were closed, Mr. Minister, one after the other. Not to mention Mr. Georgiadis, who didn't want Tomsen to take his glory away from him. But doctors and nurses were fired, doctors left abroad, and now - we don't have doctors. Soon the doctor, who's in England now, takes 8-10 thousand to Greece to get 800. What is it? Is that a sucker? That's how we made our country. The budget is being discussed in the middle of a serious scandal. You should know something. Today an order was given by the Athens Prosecutor to investigate what has happened and what is happening, who has taken it. Mrs Giannakopoulou, the KINAL Parliamentary Representative, asked three or four times. I'm sick of hearing her. I'm saying, aren't you going to answer? You ask, Mrs. Giannakopoulou. Did anyone answer you from the authorities who finally handled the Pecha list? Why did you ever find out who handled the lists that came from abroad with the Panama Papers, etc.Huh? Never. So you're never gonna know. The D.A. will find out, of course, which is now opening the file. Let's see this study, the most serious study, which the Greek Solution on Tuesday at noon awaiting one of the parties of Anti-Population - and KINAAL and SYRIZA and the Communist Party of Greece - to come to denounce this memorableness of the Prime Minister, who made fun of the Greek Parliament, the Greek MPs, the representatives of the Greek people and the entire Greek people that he knew nothing, because there is no difference between the ITH and the outside of the ITH, today we are trying to find what is to blame for the deaths. It is our bad weather because we cannot understand all of us - all of us here and three hundred - that nobody is playing with health and national defence. We had said many times as Greek Solution: Health and national defense - and we used to call it before - should have been excluded from the memorandum. They got into the memorials, they were destroyed, and now we're trying to draw them up. I will say for the national defense, which has been a very great effort, a very great effort to enable the ship to get a little equal, because it had been fully batteryed by everything that was done in the previous years against the Ministry of National Defence. So we will see, because it is a very serious issue, who handled the study by Mr Tsiodra and Mr Lytras. "He doesn't know...," said Mr. Economou, the Government Representative, "nothing the Prime Minister." All right, we'll agree on this case. He doesn't know anything. But someone needs to know. Mr. Kikilias and the rest of the Ministry of Health, who left, even though they did all right, from their positions after the remodeling and went to the Ministry of Tourism and elsewhere, do they know nothing? No one knows anything in this country? Then what? And who? You will see, Minister, what has to do with the tsunami of the lawsuits by the people who have lost their own people. Don't think they'll let it go. You will see what has to do with lawsuits, civil courts and criminal courts. And this impunity that you have voted for and called on you by the Greek Solution and Mr. Kyriakos Velopoulos himself to take it back and you have not taken it will not be the case at all, because the other, who has died his child, his father, his mother, his brother, his relative, will not count either out impunity or anything. Here we will be - God first - see what has to be done. Now let's go to the budget. The rapporteur's report invokes an uncertainty for next year. You are cutting the cost of interventions by about EUR 12.5 billion - because you say you have cut nothing - and in total by providing EUR 13.5 billion of liquidity. It's the number of your state budget. Our question is, if intervention is required, where will the money be found? Do I have to answer that? Loans, loans again. And you know, after May, after the end of the MAI, Mr. Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, former Labour Minister, economist, the interest rates will not be what they are today and we will not be able to give our bonds to the secondary market. Then let's see what interest rates our country will borrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u332	That's not true.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u333	You're not an economist. If you do, you'll tell us. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Let go of that now! Listen, ladies and gentlemen, I am not Kurubles.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u334	Mr. Mylonakis has the right, like every Member, to say what he believes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u335	I'm not Panagiotis Kouroublis singing and making the clowns underneath, shouting and ringing your hands.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u336	Just a minute, Mr. Mylonakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u337	Do you see how I'm sitting there? Suza.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u338	Mr. Mylonakis has the right to say what he believes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u339	...as all the Members of Parliament are sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u340	He said, "Cranches" and I ask him to withdraw.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u341	I'm rescinding, I'm rescinding. And you know very well, Mr Russopoulou, that I do not use such expressions. I'm withdrawing and I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u342	Please have the parliamentary representative answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u343	But I cannot understand some people who are trying to make a fuss.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u344	Don't listen to them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u345	I can speak and then anyone will stand up and say that the Greek Parliamentary spokesman was wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u346	Mr. Mylonakis, don't waste your time. Keep going, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u347	Now we're going to health expenditure. He claimed that no health credit was cut. From the State Budget, firstly, Mr Brutsi, EUR 820 million. How Mr. Plearis chose it like this, how he put it like that, I didn't understand it at all. Come see now the funds earmarked for the Ministry of Health because of COVID. They're cut by 85.5%. The reductions in hospitals reach 280m euros, i.e. from 1.742,000, we go to 1,462,000,000 for hospitals, at a time when uncertainty, as the report says, is a given one. If they need money, where do we get it from? He said, "I have a pillow of 600 million and, if necessary, we will find more". Okay, we'll find some more. You are deducting EUR 600 million from the emergency health expenditure. Is this 600 million other than what will be missing from the other costs? Of social costs, welfare, support for unemployed, SMEs, etc., minus EUR 1.7 billion. So that's where we cut it. We're cutting from everywhere. I say this. It says the government is giving a heating allowance, but we see that the heating allowance is not enough. The Minister, Mr Stagioras, admitted that the current allowance is very little and we must - we are constantly seeing this - give more because it does not come out. Now we're going to tax. VAT receipts, Minister, increase by 9.6% and income by 9.3%. That's in the budget. Once growth is forecasted for 2022, from 6.9% to 4.5%, how will you collect more taxes from both VAT and income? We will have a slowdown in the economy, according to what the budget says. So, ladies and gentlemen, it does not come out here, and we can prove it by numbers. You're celebrating that you've reduced HISBIA. Yes, sir. Now listen to this. This year the state received EUR 2.563,000,000 from HNPH. In 2022 it is estimated that you will receive EUR 2,503,000, i.e. the state will receive some 60 million less in 2022 since 2021, Minister. And I ask. Is this the great relief of the Greek people by HISFIA? Can I tell you what's happened? There are areas in which the objective values have risen, such as Nice, Poverty, Agaleo, Gender. The objective values have risen too much, so this number will not come out here too. What's 60 million at 3 billion? So this is where you fooled the Greek people. Defensive expenditure. Indeed, defensive spending was too far behind, and I think they had all confessed. And in order to prevent it, we have all rightly supported - except for the few who have also said 'present' - all the equipment programmes. That's true. We have now reached the armaments, defence spending at 6,93 billion, which is reminiscent of a decade of 2009. I think there is a lot more to be done in the Armed Forces. But what we have said and said all the time is for that very expensive material. Consider that 1 billion costs six Raphalls. You understand that the weapon systems are expensive if you count 160 to 170 million. He takes a child 22-25 years old, a pilot, an aircraft worth 160m euros, and with it he flies and fights with it and with it he tries to protect our country. And this man in the new budget gets a 2% increase in staff expenditure. And I ask, is that fair? Is it fair that a pilot, a captain, or a lieutenant take 1,200 to 1,300 euros and fly continuously into the air with an aircraft of 160 million euros? No expense or one euro above. And these over 60 million incoming are for the recruitment of two thousand six hundred PDOs that are needed to keep the Armed Forces working. So we must immediately see what is going on first, with the pensions issues, secondly, the staff of the Armed Forces and strengthen them, as well as with the issue of doctors. And we have to understand that without giving money to these people, without paying them, we are not going to find any intensifiers in our homes or hospitals good, but they are all going abroad. And one last thing, which I think Mr Panayotopoulos had said, but I'm asking and I don't see a serious answer from anyone. The military doctors, who had been on the battle against COVID from the start, against the pandemic, have so far not been on the lists of those who will take the gift, even one more moral gift that the Prime Minister said would give. I think they should be on the lists, all the military health personnel. It is also unfair to contribute solidarity, ladies and gentlemen, because it is the second year in which the contribution of solidarity to the private sector is frozen. However, the public and, above all, pensioners are not, pensioners normally pay a contribution of solidarity. Either it's got to be cut to them or we all have to pay together, it doesn't have two meters and two weights. After all this, the Greek Solution is voting against the 2022 budget and is voting in favour of what has to do with the Ministry of National Defence, equipment and defence expenditure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u348	We are now continuing with Mrs Kasimatis from SYRIZA and we are completing with Mr Anastasiades from New Democracy. Here, Mrs. Cassimatis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u349	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Mitsotakis Government budget for the year 2022 is being voted tomorrow on the assumptions and assessments you put forward for the future, having removed from the parameters the pandemic treaty of the coronary, while Europe and the world are reconstructing themselves by taking new measures to tackle the fourth wave with the 'Omicon' transmissible mutation, while you themselves are putting new restrictions on travel to foreigners. Is that why you are reducing the funds for the regular health budget by EUR 812 million? Once the time changes, will the coroner cease to exist? Perhaps this is your wish - some members of the government or of the Prime Minister - under the gum drinking eggnog? The transfer that I use obviously demonstrates both the material and cultural distance you have from the country you are running. Of course, things would just be ridiculous if they weren't so tragic. I am referring, of course, to the study of Tsiodra-Lytra and to the news that earlier that the findings of the two teachers, one of whom is also the head of the pandemic experts, are part of the preliminary examination of the Athens Prosecutors Prosecutors' Prosecutors for investigating the conditions of hospitalization or non-medical or incorrect hospitalization in the ICUs or outside the ICUs. On the political side - which is here - I consider that as Members we should - together with the Members of the New Democracy - point to the Prime Minister's close associates, the ministers Mr Petsa and Mr Scarcho, who have said that 'if we listened to SYRIZA for the ICM, we would have thrown tens of millions of euros'. These on 25-9-2020, but now in November 2021 with thousands of dead, "there's no reason to create" - they said - "a luxurious health system, in which, after the end of the pandemic, will disappear the reason for having too many IFs". "The health system and before pandemic was weighed" - I am speaking in quotes, I am referring to the words of your Minister - "the health system was therefore also weighed before pandemic, pressed in the winter months, pressed again this year, and we know that and know what its potential is." So you know what its potential is, what the Tsiodra-Lytra study says, is very limited. Of course, when a Prime Minister is someone who swears to the prefecture - and well - of social inequalities, and at the same time, it takes a study to prove - that, in any case - the mortality of people is increasing, or as if there were ever anyone - I will say from all of us - in a hospital and that there was no attempt to have an ITH. We saw this last year, unfortunately, with the vaccinations how some of you, from your Members, from your government, tried by your Members - anyway, I have no names - to be vaccinated first of all out of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u350	Tell us names! What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u351	What are you talking about in here? Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u352	But now, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u353	Obviously, the vice mayor who dreamed of Aston Martin in Baden Baden looks like oasis in front of what we hear from your ministers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u354	Ladies and gentlemen, there is no need for tension!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u355	Because our task here is national and socially indivisible - so I understand it as a Member and indeed as an elected Member of the Second Piraeus Parliament, a region with very specific resistance history and social composition - I sincerely regret that our predictions have been dramatically confirmed for our country and for our people. I would have liked us to have fallen out because our project and the Left - I believe all the progressive parties - are not the space, it is the country and the people and, of course, the people who resist oppression, such as ours all these years and are trying to conquer autonomy inside and abroad. So last year, from this step in the same debate, we said that 2020 was annus horribilis for humanity because of the global pandemic of COVID-19 and that 2021 looks like Greece the long journey of a great day in the middle of the night. You're the night, you're the night! The ESS has suspended its regular operation by your command, regular surgery has been postponed - and exceptionally - by excessively increasing private health expenditure and leaving without systematic monitoring and care patients who have not been able to seek services outside the ESS. This has caused what is called "side loss" or "excess mortality", which in the country has increased by 8.4% in 2020, with more on average deaths of five years 2015-2019. And from these deaths in 45%, this increase, not about COVID incidents, did not die from coronary people, but from the side losses of the operation of the system. The report also shows the inequality, the injustice that exists, the regional inequality. From the text - I remember - of the Recovery Fund, when you brought it in May 2020, when you had the report at the time, you did not mention the regional allocation of resources anywhere, and the regional breakdown was completely absent. This means that we were not aware of how these 18 billion euros of grants would initially be allocated at regional level, what the amount for each region has been allocated and what criteria - if that has been the case - would have been - be allocated. This says a lot about how you understood the regional development and the problems of the country that you already knew about. I'm closing, Mr. President. After all, our souls are dreaded from their disgust, for whoever understands, I don't want to say where the phrase comes from. I believe, however, deeply that the time given to us to live in a wishful home is the ideal of this country and this life. We owe the Greek people, however, to this historic phase, in the present, which is supplementing the year of the two hundred years from the Revolution and the National Palagenesia and entering into a next anniversary, in 2022, of the hundred years from the completion of the Hellenism of East Greece by the Turks with the Asia Minor, to realize these historical milestones and to measure themselves with their sizes in this year, taking vital decisions, if we are interested in the continuation of this people, for the productive restructuring of our economy that will make us self-sufficient economic and geopolitical, so that we can reproduce and respond to the demographic problem, for the development of culture and education, the arts, sciences and research, for our young people, who are able to stay in their place and cultivate the land, as with such simplicity demanding, for the development of culture and education, the arts, science and research, to return to our farms's homes, in our country, in our country's homeland, to our country's homeland, to our country's farms home, which, which is home, which is a country'. And you know what else? To return to their parents' Sunday table, who grew up and studied their children in the happiness of post-multi-multi-multi-population - which you are wrapping up and despised - and came the smart right to the parties that settle in the political system to make them migrants. We can also tear out for these parents, and for grandchildren who don't know, when we look for intensive and anesthetics and we can't help them because you don't hire them, gentlemen of the government. Last year we said you came to finish what was started in 2010 by the social forces and the same political forces that support you. Unfortunately, you bring in a budget for 2022 for the financial adjustment of 9.7 billion or 5.4% of GDP and the deficit from 7% this year will fall to 1.4% in 2022. This is a very big and abrupt adjustment, which will be without further burdens on the households and citizens of the country who are already suffering from the great wave of accuracy. Of course all this brings to our mind the very close memory of the memorial years and violent financial adjustments. We are therefore voting against your budget, as we always vote against your political plan. So the Greek people will also vote against you, in whose conscience you are already morally and politically invalid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u356	We continue and complete the process with Mr Anastasiades from New Democracy. Here, Mr Anastasiades, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u357	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not know whether it is the privilege of a Member to close this top-level debate on behalf of the Members. However, it is certain that it has an overall picture of the debate. If anyone did not know the reality and lived in this country and listened only to Parliament today and, above all, only to the MPs of Anti-Population, he would believe that in this country the world dies on the streets and that those who do not die are in the bars and are trying to escape from the country. Last year we were told by the Qualified Opposition that the market will collapse, the businesses will close, unemployment will grow, the world will starve. That's not how it happened. This year, the pandemic became their flag. They admire themselves in the ruins of the Greek economy. SYRIZA MEP Mr Janakopoulos said a moment ago: 'You must leave'. Is that what Mr. Janakopoulos feels? Is that what the Greek people feel? He did not understand or see that two and a half years after the elections the difference between New Democracy and SYRIZA remains in a two-digit number, and even though you were ruling and the Greek people gave you the opportunity - fortunately he quickly regretted it - you, the Acoustic Opposition cannot overcome itself, can not overcome the logic and philosophy of 3%, with their logic and strategy leading them to there, because it seems that they belong to them. They can't stand dialogue, they can't stand the serious debate and it seems they can't stand the successful policy of the Government of Kyriak Mitsotakis. But the reality, ladies and gentlemen, is quite different. Despite the difficulties and challenges facing the country in the coming year, the challenges of natural disasters, fires, earthquakes, flooding, but above all the great problem of the pandemic that continues to trouble us, it is clear that the Mitsotakis Government has seriously, responsibly and effectively faced the situation in both the social and economic sectors. The Mitsotakis Government has made some 43 billion euros available to deal with the pandemic, which is the third largest support package in the Eurozone. It strengthened business liquidity, regulated over five hundred thousand loans from households and businesses, reduced red loans with the "HRAKLIS" programme, while the country borrowed at historically low interest rates. Unemployment has also decreased and exports have increased, while EUR 1.2 billion has been spent on tackling the energy crisis. Also, he unlocked and orbited large investments, while important infrastructure projects that had been planted are now progressing rapidly. In addition, the heating allowance is strengthened by extending income and population criteria. Furthermore, 250 euros are provided to the low-pension workers and the minimum guaranteed income is doubled, while in 2022 we will have a double increase in the minimum wage, I hope bravely, as our parliamentary representative has said. At the same time, in response to the complaints about the pandemic, IF beds doubled to meet the pressure on the system, while over the last two years more than 12 000 people have been employed in the ERC. In addition, at this difficult time, the government with its interventions kept society and the economy up and running, based on the 2021 budget forecasts, and it is clear that the 2022 budget also meets the country's basic needs, priorities and targets. It highlights the development, social and progressive direction of government policy for dynamic growth that gives fruit and income to all Greeks for the creation of a state that leaps to digital transformation, reduces bureaucracy and invests in the green economy, create a protective framework with policies supporting vulnerable social groups and strengthens the Armed Forces to feel safe for the Greek citizen. The new budget, like the previous one, does not include taxes. On the contrary, it includes additional tax reductions and tax reductions. Despite the protracted international unstable environment, the Greek economy is developing at a very strong rate. This is due, on the one hand, to the support measures taken during the pandemic and, on the other, to the general reform policy pursued by the Mitsotakis Government. The development of our national economy is evidenced by a number of elements which are not questionable. The significant increase in investment which the European Commission estimates in both 2021 and 2022 will be one of the highest in Europe, the global investments of PFIZER, MICROSOT, CISCO, AMAZON, VOLKSWAGEN and others are typical examples of the investment climate created by the government, but also of the confidence enjoyed by our country by foreign colossians. The increase in exports which are also among the highest in Europe, the declining unemployment and 7.2% increase in the available income of Greek households in the first half of 2021 are elements that confirm the upward trend of our economy. The government has been able to cover 2/3 of the losses of the health crisis in 2021 and from the recovery of 2021 we move to strong growth in 2022, which will cumulatively reach 11.7% and not only will cover the losses of the pandemic, but also exceed 1.7%, compared with 2019 GDP. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Finally, despite the fact that the government has already taken family support measures, Minister, I believe that more generous intervention is needed for all new families, but also for the multitude family, in order to address the acute demographic problem facing our country. Measures to deal with the energy crisis should certainly also be extended to rural streams, as the accounts already reached by farmers are unbearable. While the primary sector, agriculture and livestock must be further supported so that the country can continue to have a primary sector. I also think it is time to solve the problem of uninsured ultra-persistent and repatriated. It is an injustice of years that must finally be restored because it is at the expense of these people. Ladies and gentlemen, the management of external threats such as pandemic, the energy problem affecting households and businesses and our national pressures from Turkey require careful planning, constant readiness, sobriety, responsibility from all sides, because the last thing that our country needs right now, under these difficult circumstances, is the pointless tensions and populism that we have unfortunately heard in this House. After many years, the country enters a dynamic growth orbit. We must all recognise it, stand up to the circumstances, support this course for our citizens and our country. Thank you very much. I wish everyone a merry Christmas with health and joy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u358	Thank you, too. I would remind you that the sitting tomorrow, following the exhaustion of the list of the two two registered speakers and the prototypes of the parliamentary representatives, begins at 10 a.m. with the seconds of the parliamentary representatives. The talks of the political leaders will follow in reverse terms, according to what we have agreed in the first place. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-17-S1-commons.u359	With the consent of the House at 22.32' the meeting is closed for tomorrow, Saturday, December 18, 2021, at 10.00, on the subject of this House's work: continuing the debate and voting on the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "State Budget for the financial year 2022".
