ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the debate and vote on the draft law of the Ministry of Justice: "Reforms on relations between parents and children and other issues of family law". Before I summon Mrs Skondra to Stepma, I would like to remind all my fellow Members, whether they are in Athens or watching us from the circuit, to adjust their speaking time to seven minutes, so that the Bureau is not forced to interrupt. We need to be precise in the seven-minute. There's the warning bell for those attending. If necessary, I will intervene. But it is not good to interrupt thoughts. You all know, then, how to time and adjust your speech to seven minutes. I now invite Mrs Silina Skondra, a member of the New Democracy by Cardiff.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, last year, as a member of the Special Permanent Committee on Equality, Youth and Human Rights, I had tabled a question under parliamentary control to my Minister for Justice and Succession, Mr Tsiara, on the obligation for our country to move to legislative changes, as arising from Council Resolution 2079/2015. This resolution concerns issues of equality and the common parental responsibility of children. The Council of Europe has called on all its Member States to eliminate from their national legislation existing differences in all the rights of children and parents. In a number of countries such as France, Belgium, Austria, Denmark, Switzerland, the United States, Brazil, Mexico, the conscientiousness has been institutionalised, while the majority of the scientific world are in favour of it. Greece maintains a forty-year-old family law, Law 1983, which was pioneering for its time and which then created new data. However, today, according to a common confession, it no longer meets the requirements of our modern society. It was necessary to revise it in order to harmonise the current perceptions and developments in relation to the way the family was organised and functioning. The fundamental truth is that children need both their parents and the current legal framework, in many cases, exposes their children who live with one parent - especially in cases where there is a strong dispute - to the risks of unjustified psychological pressure. Here, too, we must stress that the state must have a comprehensive legal framework. For their part, which I consider to be equally interested and hurt by their children, apart from individual special cases, parents must realise that they have an absolute obligation to find an area of minimum, even of understanding, so that they do not pass the doors of the courts. When this becomes impossible, it comes to the regulation of this bill and creates a new stage, that of mediation, in order to widen the area of understanding. Ladies and gentlemen, with the existing legal framework, despite the fact that there is the possibility of conscientiousness, the courts, which have chosen the painless, almost mechanical, solution to the exclusive assignment of custody to one parent, have made little progress. In modern society, unfortunately, divorces have multiplyed, since social standards have changed slowly. However, parental relations must have a dominant influence on the child’s good. We have seen that most of the institutions expressed themselves in favour of the bill, which is the result of a rich and fertile dialogue, and the Minister has incorporated many of their proposals. This draft law is paedophile and contains a very important aspect in which we should concentrate our parliamentary debate. I am thinking of the specialised training of judges and the legal tools of judges to decide in the interest and always for the best in terms of the future of the child. This compulsory training in active judges is indeed a radical and absolutely positive regulation, which will ensure that justice is served by judges well-intentioned to the needs of children. Members claim that the arrangements pose risks to the child may have had to read them a little better. They would see that the judge has a wide-ranging opportunity to distribute parental care, he can take into account the specificities of each individual case and exceptionally give the sole custody of a parent or even a third person, when obviously one or both are inappropriate for the child’s upbringing. Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard from the Minister that consensus with the opposition in this legislative project has been attempted. He met the representatives of all parties twice at the Ministry, but no proposal was tabled at all. That is why I cannot follow the intensity of the anti-population rhetoric, which follows the constant tactics of the permanent refusal but does not give a statement of opinion. We must understand that this draft law introduces the fundamental rule of equal participation of both parents in the care and upbringing of their children. Dimension, divorce does not mean for the child the loss of one of the two parents. Both will continue to participate in the upbringing and life of their child and then the divorce. We have a duty to these children, who are injured without being responsible, to form the framework that will overcome the current case-law, under which the sole custody of one parent is acquired. The other, no matter how much he wishes to take part in his upbringing, is confined to a low right of communication. We heard the Committee on Psychologists explain that a number of scientific findings are converging to the conclusion that children growing in a conscientious environment have better results in a number of indicators than children with exclusive care than one parent. They are children who spend at least 35% of their time with each parent. Specifically, they show lower levels of depression, anxiety and mental discomfort, lower aggression and behavioural problems, reduced use of alcohol and substances, better school progress, cognitive growth, physical health, lower smoking rates and better relations with relatives. The exception is, of course, cases where children need protection from a malicious or negligible parent. It is not meant by any kind of model of conscientiousness there. I close by stressing that the dialogue on this draft law was conducted with tensions, creating distorting perceptions. You are wrong in this way with the legislation and we - through whatever disputes - are losing the core of the issue, namely that this legislative initiative by our Government and Minister Mr Chiara is an important and positive step towards modernising our national family law and making an important contribution to improving the living conditions of parents and children. That is why we must support it. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u4	We are also grateful for the respect and consistency in time. The speaker of the New Democracy Mr. Vassiliou - Peter Spanakis for seven minutes. A lot of chiefs will talk today. It is a long list and we must be consistent in time. Mr. Spankee, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u5	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the reform of the institutional framework for parental and child relations has been opened for a long time since parental separation. A debate characterised by strong differences and dividing lines between the sides. Indicative of the intense interest is the very large number of comments in the public consultation of the particular bill we are debating today. Today, therefore, the Ministry of Justice brings to the plenary session a discussion and vote on the draft law on the reform of parental and child relations and other issues of family law. But what is the point? What does each parent pursue? The best interests of children, their protection, the defence of their rights, the guarantee of group and mental health, the creation of a safe and balanced environment in which they will grow and grow. All this is the duty of the state to ensure that they are maintained regardless of the outcome of parental relations. Does this bill succeed today? That's the question. Was it necessary to reform family law? Ladies and gentlemen, forty years have passed since the comprehensive reform of family law brought about by No. 1329/1983. It was a truly important reform that guaranteed equality within marriage and a multitude of innovations, thus putting an end to all the pathogens and anachronistic practices of the past. But today things have changed radically again. Family models are different. Cohabitation relations are regulated in many ways but also the role of the father has changed greatly, as he is more actively involved than ever in raising the child. Today’s bill was therefore necessary. Without prejudice to the regulated rights of Law 1329, it shall adopt at no time all the necessary reforms required by the new era. The main axis of the bill is the creation of culture, consultation and cooperation between the two parents, as well as their equal participation in the exercise of parental care after the end of their relationship and cohabitation. The main innovations introduced by the provisions of this bill are that it strengthens and facilitates cooperation between parents. Ladies and gentlemen, before I came to Parliament today, I was on the phone wishing the mother of a young child from my constituency, who will shortly be flying for London for a critical operation, because their child has cancer. So we come and say in such bad situations how small all this looks? How necessary is parental cooperation necessary? How necessary is cooperation to raise the child properly? Not only in the bad, but also in the good. So we understand the responsibility that we all have to show so that parents' cooperation is the desired result. And here comes the role of the state, the Government of New Democracy, the Minister of Justice Kostas Tsiaras with his staff, who did a very important job and brought this bill to the vote today. Because this bill strengthens alternative methods of resolving family differences, such as the institution of mediation, thus placing recourse to the courts as the last solution. We can't all go to court with anything. It serves this bill and strengthens the true interest of the child, which is laid down as a key criterion for regulating the relationship between parents and children and the decisions of the court. It introduces the joint exercise of parental responsibility as it applies to most European countries. Objective criteria for the misuse of parental care are laid down which are taken into account by our judges. It equates children who are recognised outside marriage with those who were born and grow up in marriage. A minimum time to communicate with the parent who doesn't live with the child is set up in 1/3. In any case, for special reasons or by agreement, that time may be changed. For judges who will judge family differences, a mandatory special training programme is being established, in which besides judicial officers there will also be specialized psychologists, sociologists, social workers and other scientists. The debate that took place both in mediation, in consultation and in the meetings of Parliament's committees was constructive, and substantial interventions were made by both the institutions and the Members of both the Com mittees as well as colleagues of the Co-Population. With regard to the time being, I shall refer to some of the points in the articles, Mr President, such as Article 4, which introduces the addition of digital procedures to the consensus solution within marriage. It is added that, on the one hand, it is imposed by the new data, on the other hand, it helps to reduce bureaucracy in order to deal more quickly and, therefore, to reduce the costs of the whole process. I could talk about many articles, such as Article 9, which regulates issues of parental responsibility for children born and who remain outside their parents' marriage, and when there is recognition the same as children inside marriage apply. Article 12 strengthens codecision on important issues such as name, education, health, etc. Article 14 lays down specific criteria for the misuse of parental responsibility. With today's draft law, a renewed legislative framework is being introduced, in the standards followed by most European countries, for the relationship between parents and their children, which escapes the obsolete and sterile model that is being followed today. It is trying to lay the foundations - and to keep this - for effective cooperation and communication between parents, for the benefit of the interests and rights of the child. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u6	We also thank Mr Spanakis and the consistency of time. The speaker of the Change Movement and Vice-President of the Parliament, Odysseus Konstantinopoulos, now has the floor. Please prepare a little faster for the Step to get time. Today's time is very tight, because there are many speeches.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are here today to talk about an issue that I do not think has any party characteristics. It has mainly ideological characteristics. You will allow me to begin my speech, saying how the PASOK and its culture deal with such a serious issue, in relation to existing parties, with reference to two different issues. I remember the bill on cannabis medication then brought by SYRIZA. It was a bill that responded to a problem of special groups going abroad, because they had rare diseases and needed this treatment. We deceived it in the logic of 'everywhere there will be a cigarette'. At the same level I see the Civic Opposition today. I heard them say there's a rich lobby yesterday. Rich people solve their problems differently, they don't need any bills. The weak have a problem with them. So there are lobbys of wealthy friends of the Prime Minister, asking for conscientiousness, etc. All this on such a sensitive subject. I wonder, when you voted on your own features and your thinking of adopting the family couples, did you vote for them because they were rich in the family couples, friends of the then Prime Minister? This is our differences in PASOK, gentlemen of the New Democracy and SYRIZA. We have a different culture on such issues. We behave completely differently. We really think about the problem and the value that each of us has in such matters. But who's to deal with this? The media, from "SKAI" to "ERT", have a member of the New Democracy, one of SYRIZA, a journalist of SYRIZA and always of "AUGIS" and a journalist from New Democracy. Yesterday at a panel were two journalists, they weren't even MPs. One journalist said: "But I am not a MP." In other words, journalists have also entered the role of the parties! That's never happened before. Look, ladies and gentlemen, it is very difficult to talk about an issue that everyone has experienced separately. I have read for too long because I have asked the Minister a lot of questions about conscientiousness, analyses on the one hand and the other, I have heard different stories, I watch parents speak with intensity and hatred many times, but both say that they do it for the good of their child. Indeed, what everyone has to say clearly today is not about party criteria or about exploiting something. Because, major changes in such matters, such as the major change in PASOK in 1983 in family law, find a great deal of repercussions. I have to tell you thousands and each one of you has told many stories. I don't want to talk to you, though, either as a lawyer in the courts or as a doctor, who I've experienced, or as a friend of a dad or a mother. After eight - nine months I want to say in a clear way to everyone that conscientiousness today is essential as ever. Let's be honest with each other. Does the law on the conscientiousness that the government brings today have any problems? He's in trouble. But is it a necessary step? It is a necessary step. Can she adopt our proposal - and the rapporteur, which can be done, and will she be the next step immediately - for the institution of the family court which will avenge exclusively family affairs next step? It is. I will not waste any more time, because I want to be very clear about them and I do not think there are any other scientific analyses on our part. We've heard them. I just want to say to these people, whether they're called "mama" or "mama", who are looking for their child, go miles to see their child, because they're looking for it and missing them, that we need to find the ways to give them the right to be able to enjoy their children. That right cannot be stopped. And nobody can stop it, because it's something they live for themselves. Finally, I want to say this. I've been moved many times with these people I've met, and they don't, either a dad running to Volos to see his kid for half an hour, or for a mom that Dad left her and never came back to his kids. I am moved by the way their children grow up. I am moved because I see many of us, who don't have these problems, not taking advantage of our time with our children in the running of the everyday life we live in, giving them less time. So, ladies and gentlemen, with respect always to my inner-party procedures, as I have always done, and with respect to the majorities that exist and the imperfections of the bill, I would like to tell you that for me, conscientiousness must go ahead with the remarks we have made, because it is as necessary as ever for society itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u8	We too thank Mr Constantinople and the consistency in time. Please take the floor for seven minutes by the Member of the New Democracy Mr Konstantinos Karagkounis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr President. I may need a very small tolerance. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, I have had the great honour of planting in the Ministry of Justice in the past, and I know from experience how difficult it is to bring about sectors and make profound changes in a very sensitive area, as we usually say, and so it is, in justice. And much more in laws that concern all of us and really touch sensitive issues of our lives and our everyday lives. And, of course, what is more important and sensitive to the relationships of parents who are no longer there for their own reasons, together with their child. And I really understand why, for all concerned and stakeholders, any changes in the rules of law, which regulate these issues, are of the greatest interest. I would say that this is the rare case where you feel that you are personally touched by the law, because that is what I said before, precisely that there is difficulty in bringing about sectoral and radical changes in such matters, partly because the laws that have been implemented for decades create a kind of inertia. I think it is very characteristic that the last major reform of family law has taken place almost forty years ago. I say charming - and many colleagues here are used to saying so - that in the area of justice we are and we need to be more conservative than the other areas of the legislative work and act enthusiastically. It is only when this really is necessary that changes should be made. I made all this great, in a sense, introduction to make it clear by contrast what made me want to speak today. Because I really wanted to talk about this after I gave the credit. The Minister of Justice and the Deputy Minister are really worthy of congratulating, and themselves and their colleagues, because with boldness, with real interest and real interest to change something in this country, to change something into a legal framework for forty years, they have dealt with such a difficult issue as this is reflected in the bill that we are discussing. I want, Minister and Minister, to offer you sincere congratulations. You know, ladies and gentlemen, I say this because of course it is very easy to hide the essence of the matter, especially when we talk about changes in the urban code. Because, behind objections to one or the other wording, one or the other alternative, and our fears that changes can cause one or the other problem, behind and beyond that, there is, ladies and gentlemen, the essence of the matter which, of course, has been correctly said, has been reflected. I read the comments in the public consultation. It was really too many passionately positive in favour of the bill, which was put into public consultation. Do you know what this substance is? I will tell you and allow me to have an opinion on this because the issues that are trying to deal with the bill have been dealt with - especially those who are colleagues here - and we have lived in the chambers of the courts on the first hand. So I've had it, too. And not to put it to you, in a sense, experientially, I will tell you in the form that it might be said in other countries where the laws and their implementation are sometimes controlled as to the correctness of this application or not by very simple statistics. In Greece, Minister, we have had this debate - we do not respect them to the extent that we should respect them. The essence of what we are discussing, which I have experienced from legal practice, is this: are we talking today about conscientiousness, and I really wonder what we would see, if we kept statistics on the forty years that these provisions are being implemented? I think we would see that in cases where the courts grant custody there are very large percentages - I would say at overwhelming rates of the Soviet press - only diligence is awarded to one party. Let's not be fooled. I understand that to some extent. It's a very sensitive spot. I have three kids, and most of us probably have kids. The role of the mother in raising the child is absolutely central and obviously no one disputes it, otherwise. In fact, I have heard all your suggestions, Minister, and you have said so. We all understand this, and while instinctively we recognise that too many times the courts, which were diligent on the part of the mother, within the existing legal framework that was based on, if one considers it on the criteria of control that would be an opportunity, if we had the exact statistical information, it is clear that there has been something very wrong here in the 'Kingdom of Danimarky', as we would say. Why suppose we had such statistics, which we lawyers empirically acknowledge from the act, which told us that 97% or 98% of the cases the courts only entrust the mother with custody. And obviously while no one would have been able to judge individual judge the judges' judgments, because in the end only the judge who studied the case file could have decided in detail on it, despite all that, such a statistical fact which I mentioned to you, if we had it before us, would have said and meant at a glance - do not analyse it - that this law is not being implemented properly. That would be understood if one were to see the legal reality. It's just to tell the catapult is not possible at such a overwhelming rate as 97% of fathers in a country... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like a little tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u10	No, Mr. Carraguni.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u11	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u12	I'm the one who's here, please. You will allow me to take the same stand for everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u13	I don't know if there was tolerance. I think there's time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u14	We're done. There's no time. Please close with your last paragraph.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u15	Anyway...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u16	It is not a personal matter, it is a matter of procedure and a matter of substance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u17	I think it is a very sensitive bill, Mr President, and we must have a position.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u18	Please warmly. Everyone has a reason to need more time. Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u19	If time is so pressing, Mr President, it is okay that we do not express our views. To have a tolerance. I don't know if colleagues object to that?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u20	Tolerant.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u21	Tolerant.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u22	So there must be tolerance, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much. Mr President, I would like a little tolerance. I'll be back in conversation. It is not possible in such a overwhelming proportion to think in this country that fathers are inappropriate to exercise custody of their children, which means that the law has not been implemented properly and while its purpose was to judge these matters on the basis of the child's interests, it finally came to create a peculiarity and - let me say, Minister - almost depressingly uniform presumption on an issue that the state wanted to be in fact a party, and indeed, in spite of this overwhelming majority, the decisions which they gave were dealt with in some way as a given one and it seems very characteristic of the comments of the consultation. If you read them, you will see that these decisions have come to a point, ladies and gentlemen, that we consider them to be quite familiar and premiseed. And, of course, this has created - let me say - an institutional 'heartburn' and, unfortunately, it has hit the prestige of the state but also of justice. He harmed the child's real interest in his monotony and created - I am sorry to say it - an approximately proprietary attitude in terms of the child for one of the two parents. So that, ladies and gentlemen, is the tampering. That's the point. We may want to banish her, we can say some other words, perhaps not hurt people and situations, but that is the reality. And what the bill brings, what it wants to do, is to solve - and this personal view - in a balanced way of achieving some balance. Because if there is no justice, ladies and gentlemen, this balance is ultimately not fair. And that's where we need to be, and that's where we have to stay. I think that beyond any crises, beyond the different approaches to the issue, we should stay there. Let me tell you something else. You know very easily in public life, in public life and in politics, if we do not want to make any change, whether we recommend a committee, as some others have said before, to make a committee, to put the matter to a committee. This is as we say in the confederate "we drop the ball on the platform". I don't think that's what we want. The Ministry of Justice brought a bill - cut. I will vote in favour. I am sure, Minister, that it will have a positive effect not only on the relations of the parties concerned, but that is why I have analysed this in particular, in the area of justice, but above all on the prestige of the rule of law, because that is what justice must serve. Thank you very much, Mr President, for tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u23	We continue with SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance Mr. Konstantinos Markos for seven minutes. I do not think there is any repeating of the time. At the time you were talking, and I do not know among you what you have decided, I received a call inside from a parliamentary party regarding the speech of his leader. I would therefore ask you not to intervene in the Bureau procedure. The Bureau recalls that the speaking time is seven minutes for everyone. Here, Mr Marcus, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u24	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government introduces the present at least controversial legislation in a vague manner, having provoked both the conclusions of the experts of the committees of the legislators, the Scientific Service of the Parliament and the cries of many unions. Judiciary reality, as illustrated in figures, shows that 86% of divorces in our country are consensual. So a minimum percentage is what is bothering the government. There are real problems, but it legislates heterogeneously. Mr. Raguss paid great attention yesterday, and rightly so, to this 86%, because this is what goes on to be destroyed by this bill. Looks like the lobbys they're supporting are pretty strong. I'm not making a case of intent, Minister. But let us see one - one - the problematic points of this genome bill, which will lead to greater tension, a rapid increase and will ruin 86% instead of improving it. I note that in your explanatory statement you describe as anachronism the fact that no reform of family law has taken place since 1983. Is that fair? As you well know, the code is provided for by the synonym since 1983, when the system of patriarchy has been abandoned. Indeed, it was a historic bill. The allegedly outdated Greek law has since predicted that the court may entrust the exercise of parental care to both parents together. There is a great stalemate, Minister, that if you really wanted to put your seal on, it is the lack of social network structures, the lack of qualified judges for family courts. These were to be brought, which would be really devastated, and we would be particularly supportive of you. The current code does not prohibit conscientiousness. On the contrary, she's anticipating it. What does not see is mandatory conscientiousness. Secondly, you say that we need to adapt the Greek legal order to what is happening in the rest of Europe and we are going to adapt it. However, the reality is far away. No such obligation arises from international and Union law. In fact, the Monitoring Committee for the UN Convention expressly points out that the legislation should not predetermine who exercises custody, but should be considered ad hoc. Point 3: The concept of a child's interest is completely vague in law and specializes in any case. There is no, Minister - it is the most self-evident thing that can be heard in this Chamber and in society - a common interest for all children. There's no common interest. Now you suspect in the mistake of specialising it in your strictly personal and subjective judgment, setting the criteria that you are commanding. That's not acceptable. Point 4: In the context of this, as mentioned by your well-known lawyers, reforming ostrich, you unfortunately also innovated international data, providing for the regulation of the issue of conscientiousness by law. But the individual judgment of the case only the judge can do. You forgot that when judging in the best interests of the child, the judge examines a number of factors: parental personality, living conditions, work and critical individual factors. How will the legislator achieve this? We are guided to the unheard of development by the legislator to carry out the work of a judge, with the hands of the latter being tied up. Point 5: The most famous presumption for 1/3 of the child’s communication time with each parent. So much has been heard so far in this Chamber, which I think it is unnecessary to repeat. It will be caused, Minister, exceptionally insecurity of law. Congenital situations such as the height of the diet will probably be affected by the consequences of this provision, such as a violation of private life not only of the child, but also of the other parent with whom the child is staying, as the legislator did not take into account issues such as the child's programme, the child's privacy, the age of the child, the privacy of the other parent. Point 6: You are opening by a wicked man - let me speak - a way of buying the alternating, equivalent home. In Article 1513 of the Code, as you now amend it, the word 'equivalent' is strangely set out and the word 'equivalent' is clear. Minister, let's actually talk. The major thing that needs to be done with regard to the smooth development of the divorced parent child is the sense of codecision, which must be essential and which sense of codecision often does not exist even in unmarried couples. But this is the most essential, the sense of codecision and the feeling of the child that the family exists, it just has other rules of operation. That's the stumbling block that needs to have the child. This way you enter the alternating, equivalent custody. The Marios Ice - you know - by number. By application lodged at the Registry of the Court of First Instance on 16 February 2000, the Commission of the European Communities brought an action for a declaration that, by failing to adopt, within the prescribed period, the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to comply with Council Directive 92/81/EEC I am making the relevant decision on the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Marcou, presents for the minutes the abovementioned decision, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Seventh and last point: you are making the mistake of establishing the principle of equality in the interests of the child. It is not the equality of parents in favour of the interests of the child, nor can it be an objective. On these issues a parent may be in a lower position. Many have been placed on the issue of malignant parent. Your bill turns us back to difficult times of patriarchy and you find us arguing seriously and radically. The children who experience a divorce are already afflicted. So is their parents. We all know that a divorce is a traumatic experience for all involved, parents and children. Many times, however, children have been forced to parentalize, paying the inability of parents to define their lives smoothly. The child needs to be protected, because he doesn't have a voice. And you will allow me to make a first ton of poetic permission to you with the lyrics of the poet - who has become a nice song - defend the child, Minister, because if the child escapes, there is hope. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u25	We are also grateful to Mr Marcus for the consistency in time. The speaker of SYRIZA now has the floor - a Progressive Alliance Mrs Catherine Papanatziou for seven minutes. Here you go, Mrs. Papanatsiou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will begin with the government's account that everything has changed since last Friday in our country. Everything around is changing and everything stays the same. In the imaginary world of New Democracy, our country presents the best picture at all levels. In the real world that we live in, words are not enough to characterize the relics of this government. Greek tourism opens this year without a plan despite your crocodile tears. You announced the opening on 13 May and set an official tourist reception date on 15 May. Schools opened once again without substantial measures with only a tool of doubtful quality self-test. Although the number of cases closed increases continuously, you suddenly decided to reduce the number of probable tests from two to one per week. At the same time, pandemic lasts well. The health system is still under pressure. The number of our fellow citizens who lose the battle remains constantly high. Vaccination is going slowly, and conservative European leaders, including Mr Mitsotakis, are reluctant to clash with the multinational drugs that promote profits. It is the European Parliament's last decision yesterday on a proposal from the European Left to liberalise the patent without the vote of the New Democracy. The Greek people have now realised your inability and your irresponsibility from the derailment of the pandemic to the police rule for the people on the benches, while the murders of journalists are taking place at noon and death contracts in neighbors of Athens, from cementing and damage to sculptures in the Acropolis to your election lies that are now running to cover or collect either for the Ambassadors' agreement or for the bill of pharmaceutical cannabis. If you are zealous as a government it is to legislate on the levelling-up of the Greek people. All your bills are targeting society. Your bankrupt law on bankruptcy starts to apply. It is such your obsession that with the liberalisation of activities you prioritise and the liberalisation of first home auctions. The bill by Mr Hatzidakis, the super-man of privatization, is the final blow to the world of work following, of course, the anti-Semitism and anti-social policies you apply with passion in a period of deep economic and social crisis. And now the bill of the Ministry of Justice against which the majority of the legal world is opposed are the bodies, the women's organisations, the Scientific Service of the Parliament, together with the opposition. You have reappointed the Commission, the Ten, the Family Law Company, the plenary session of the lawyers. Will you deceive the House's Scientific Service, too? Mrs Giannakou and Mrs Kefaloyannis also disagreed with them, Members of your party. Does Parliament's procedure make sense to you? Negative legal concepts have been incorporated into the provisions, which presents a risk. It is incomprehensible for the legislator to provide in cases of judicial entrustment of custody as well as joint custody. What does it mean equally? How is it achieved as well? And how is it achieved to share the child's communication time with the parent in one third of the total time? Establish by the window the alternating residence of the child and compulsory conscience. You are moving towards a definition of the interest of the child without realising that the interests of the minor are a vague legal concept specialising in the judgment of the judge in each case. You fly into the basket of useless supranational rules and indirectly direct the judge. In family law, ladies and gentlemen, parents are not a central person, but a minor child. In the report of the Scientific Service of the Parliament we clearly read: "It is commonly known that children need to guarantee emotional perseverance, stability and continuity in their care, which will allow them to develop a safe emotional link with their basic care person. These needs cannot be ensured by simply sharing the time of children between the two parents. Any confusion, any violent distribution of the child for the benefit of adults is at the expense of the child's emotional equilibrium." The report of the Scientific Service of the Parliament is a trick and gives one to the enormously sensitive and sensitive issues that you are sluggish to legislate today, Minister. Legislation provides for exemption from the joint care exercise in cases where a definitive decision is taken to convict one parent for abuse. But don't you understand that this provision leaves the victims unprotectedly and unprotectedly? Women's groups stress that in the Greek context court proceedings may last from two to five years. Therefore, the perpetrators can have access to their victims during this period. So what do you say to these victims? That they should wait until a final sentence is issued in order to protect their children? This provision directly violates the Istanbul Convention, as well as a direct breach of the convention is the provision of compulsory mediation in these cases. It is the natural judge who will have to assess the facts and have at his disposal all the appropriate means to function to resolve a difficult equation based on the actual interest of the child. In every bill, the distance you have from the real world, from anxiety and anxiety, from civil experiences, is becoming increasingly clear. Maybe in the country of the miracles you live, everything looks good. Land and listen to society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, too, for the consistency in time. The reason is now, after the Step is settled sanitary, the Member of the New Democrat Republic, Mr. Zesizikalaya, for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I wanted to be a speaker yesterday, but from my own fault I found that I would be last on yesterday's list, and so, to be comforted, I thought and remembered this: When I was in elementary school, a teacher, when he was gymnastics, test parades, and I was in the last order because of height, he regularly gave the order 'change'. Of course, in this order, he let it go on like this, because he was too small in the package but great in the offer and always said, many times "the last ones stand first". And I wanted to talk to the first, because this bill is really very important, and maybe I didn't expect there to be so many messages with all the means, phones, e-mails, social networks from many clubs, dads, moms, parents. I was really surprised. I think that so far in my parliamentary process a few times I have received so many interventions and concessions. So this is a very important issue and it is important, ladies and gentlemen, because it concerns relations between parents and children. And the government and the Justice Ministry are coming to further reform our government program. Starting with the assumption that the foundation of society is the family, we see that the family has been going through a serious moral and worthy crisis in recent years. The result of this crisis is the many divorces, which have been multiplying and growing in recent years. The family has a very important role in children’s education. Homogeneity, parental compassion is very important. This leads to the development of healthy, strong and autonomous personality for children. The child, however, is a joint and undeniable finding that he needs both parents, he needs the love of both parents. She's the one that's contributing to his normal psycho-emotional maturation. We had a civil law since 1983. It's been forty years. Until then, in the late 1970s, social structures were different in the early 1980s. Most women didn't work. It's been a generation and a half since. The man, Dad in the family has a bigger, more important role. He participates in child rearing, discipline, plays with the child more, because the mother, the woman usually works. So this bill comes to bring about harmonisation of family law. There was this need for the joint exercise of social care. In consultation I found that 80% of the interventions, comments were in favour of the arrangements in the bill. A 20% disagrees because he thinks there is mandatory conscientiousness. When there is no consensus, then the bill comes and has regulations for compulsory conscientiousness. We bring with this bill important areas. A number of controversial points and findings are those concerning the interest of the child, that, when there is no consensus, the bill speaks of compulsory conscientiousness. The 'primarily' became 'particularly'. Each parent - these are the areas, the findings of the bill - must also respect the rights of the other parent. Both have the same rights to the child. With regard to parental care after divorce, many are asked to 'equal' and 'joint' become 'equal'. However, the bill does not go into matters where there is consensus, it goes to issues when there is not much more to go to court. Clearly, we think it is a reform of the system of child-care facilities. It focuses mainly on the interests of the child, on the fact that the two parents must participate equally in the professional and social life of rearing in the framework of marriage. The two parents must be present in life and upbringing children and in marriage and after marriage, if any broken, and it is necessary to communicate the child and, of course, the parent with whom the child does not live. In principle, the bill is the non-discrimination between the two parents. We think the same thing about father and mother. We anticipate many things: mediation to resolve disputes. Frameworks of extrajudicial consultation. Training of judges for the mediation. There was a lot of talk about the fighting presumption that one third should also be of concern to the child who does not have the child in everyday life. This is not unnecessarily negotiable nor is it 'blue milk'. It is also subject to changes in the way it takes on the issue of the dispute, because we are also establishing objective criteria for the misuse of parental care. It is very clear that these objective criteria must be excluded and provided for in cases where we are escaping from logic, as we often say that there must be the consent of the parent who does not live with the child, when the parent with whom he is staying is to be moved, because often this can be a pretext for depriving the child of the presence of the other parent. Our government has been progressive and democratic and stable for two years, bringing one bill after another to move forward in the reforms that society needs. In this context, the Government and the Minister of Justice have brought this bill that we consider to be very important. We've got open ears. That is what the Minister showed yesterday in his amendments. It doesn't mean we have the infallible. We correct any things that we think at the end serve the one and only and unnegotiable purpose: the interest of the child within the Greek family. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u29	We are also grateful to Mr Jekalaya for the consistency in time. Mrs Cassimatis, Member of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u30	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, first of all I would like to say this: yesterday was a very flagrant day for Hellenism, as well as for all humanism issues in general. It was the Memorial Day of the Genocide of Pontian Hellenism. I would like to say that it is very important that these issues continue to be discussed and pursued on the next day, after the anniversaries and I think that the fact that such a very important bill was introduced in plenary yesterday shows the Government's attitude to the centrality or not to the issue, which I regret and hope we will see other moves in the future, in the immediate future, to pursue the international recognition of the Genocide of Pontian Hellenism, given the developments in our region in relation to Turkey. After all, the bill we are debating today and today will be passed, the reforms concerning relations between parents and children, and other issues of family law, is an emblematic bill, because it is precisely about bringing about an incision into a family law that has a tradition of forty years, and that does not show its old age, but rather, it was a legislative initiative between others, which was in the spirit of modernity and the spirit and the direction of gender equality. Unfortunately, the Government of New Democracy - and it is not today's bill alone - has a very specific view of the post-cultural acquis and of all those progressive reforms that all the progressive governments then, including the SYRIZA government, have enriched and retained more within the Greek society. The fact that you are trying to change, for example, what we say there is a departure from the paedophile character of family law and that you go further on the issue of parental rights, precisely demonstrates this remnant political approach to the issue, which we will find in front of us. Of course, Mr Minister, I wonder what you said yesterday and the day before yesterday, in response to the hammering that you have received from the opposition, but also from the coup d'état. You said this was a legislative initiative by the government, so there can be no major changes in the core. We have a power-sharing system, Minister. The fact that the House disagrees so widely, the fact that they also disagree so strongly through your party, is something that should concern you and cause you to retreat. In any case, if you do not want to hear your Members, you can hear their silence, because we have here the list of speakers and in the last circles there are too many gaps in the New Democracy. In other words, your Members, even though they may vote, if they vote by roll-call vote through your secretariat, are not here to support it. It is concluded that they do not agree with him.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u31	I imagine you'll stay in the vote, don't leave!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u32	As far as we are concerned, our position is clear. Check the list, Minister. Look at the gaps. In any case, you have the majority, but you do not want the legislation of this House or the Members of your Government. You must have understood that. I believe that it results from the silence of the New Democracy in this matter. However, you do not want to hear the Plenary Assembly of Greece's lawyers, who have sent extensive remarks, and you are not going to tell them that they are women who have the personal experiences, as you have said they are unacceptable to colleagues. They are men and women's lawyers in the fighting law, who are very well aware of the issues of family law in practice, in practice, of everyday and law-making. You're not taking it into consideration. You have not taken into account the Legislative Committee. You do not take into account the trick, as our rapporteur, Mr Xanthopoulou, of the Scientific Committee of Parliament, said.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u33	Didn't you hear they were integrated?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u34	You haven't incorporated the basics. All right, Minister. We expect then to see the vote, we expect it, since you have incorporated it. Unfortunately, we are not going to convince you on the main issues relating to the changes. That's what this is all about. But the act will convince you and will convince you of what is happening from now on as long as this arbitrary and salmonid intervention is lasting for you on such a key issue as parental care and that of children. Because it is an intervention - as you know, when the Constitution says in Article 21 that the family is the foundation of the maintenance and promotion of the nation as well as marriage, maternity, childhood are protected by the state - it is not an empty letter. You must know that there will be national and social consequences of the legislation that you are now bringing, because if you have studied the way in which the reforms have taken place in family law, since post-Civilisation, you must know that they are concerned in the long term with the psycho-composition of children and the psycho-composition of the next generations and a whole society, which has requirements of progress and not anachronism, where you are bringing them into practice with all your interventions, with an abalazise - let us say that - liberalism. You are doing exactly the opposite, as on many issues and I am very sorry - I say again - that such an important issue is going on so lightly and you do not understand the size of the incision you are bringing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, too. Please take care of the Step in order to get the floor for the Member of the Communist Party of Greece, Liana Kanelli. The President of the Greek Solution Mr Velopoulos has then asked for the floor. Mrs. Canelle, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u36	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, a few things from physics from school you'll remember, you can't remember. So you'll remember, it's the same molecular composition, both the carbon and the marble, the diamond. Only if you change the relationship of molecules, you get either carbon or diamond. So you came here with a bill and told us you brought a diamond. Exhaustically, my JRC MPs have shown you that you have brought coal. You brought coal and - I am not going to make micropolitics - I want to believe not on purpose, because if I believe in it on purpose, I have to ask myself how many Members in this House have been vaccinated, how many are against vaccination, whether we can campaign for the vaccine, whether we can talk about freedom and whether we can discuss relations and time. We told you, after forty years the family has changed. If you see "modern family" - modern family - you will see that the family has nothing to do with the family as we knew it twenty, thirty, forty or fifty years ago. Has only the family changed? Don't go crazy! So you come and tell us about the settlement of relationships, parenting time, conscientiousness, parental care, all together with two, three dictionaries, one "equivalent", a "fighting presumption of 1/3 of time", meaning abstract, huge concept. The philosophy has not solved until now, but the New Democracy has solved them! That's unbelievable. You have become a global record of resolving the major problem of time, lost, won, quality, labor, sleeping time, time of fun, time of one and one year of each other with this bill. You come along and carry some numbers, 86% of schools were positive. All right, with a penthouse, I'll make 85%, 90% positive comments. Trust me! Do not invoke the Internet as a process of democracy. Buying opinions on the Internet is easy. Are you going to tell me: Am I accusing you of buying them? I say to you, yes, that he was drunk and drunken both by you and the government, hence both the speed and the rush to bring something like that about the time that will pass - say, for example - the child with one of the two parents in the face of a reality. A few cases where children have become a weapon between two parents. There are few cases to date where children have been blackmailed by both men and women. There is no objection that anyone who has the money has the solution, because he has twenty assistants next door, fifteen from next door, to be able to help his mother who is ill, his father who can't keep the child and keep the situation. But you come and bring it for a very specific reason and I will tell you and it is almost impossible to deny me. You're now bringing this bill. Why? Because the bill that you will determine the time and the relationships of work and you will dismantle it is imminent. And because you know that once the labour bill comes, the deeply antique, this exotic bill of working time regulation, the houses that already agree here will be blown up in the air, not the houses where the parents have internal disagreements about the child and custody and where he'll sleep and how he'll wake up, what school he'll go to, if he's injecting, if he won't get a vaccine. And not to talk now about families who have a divorce and children with disabilities. Don't talk about this kind of diligence. Don't talk about that kind of burden. And we came to tell you, 'Keep tight, because there are possibilities in this coal to have two or two solutions, which if they are not diamonds, in any case, it is not coal, as is the allowance given earlier'. We have brought you an amendment to the tax exemptions that people should have when they have one and two and three marriages, one and two and three parental cares shared equally, as you say. What "equivalent"? Where do you say these things? Take a woman or a man, a mother or a father, who with your new bill - your new bill! - will work three weeks continuously, seven days a week and a Saturday and a Sunday, to ensure one - not to say the word - old-fashioned, four-day, to stick it to an old-fashioned weekend - which will be a Sunday that won't work - to have six, seven days to see the child and be really 1/3 of the year, three weeks not to see and see it a week to enjoy the child. Nah, are you kidding us? The employer will come and say "the week you want to work for fourteen hours a week, because that's what my business needs." Tobola! Where's the diamond? Get some coal in the face! Have you realised that you are bringing a bill to regulate the time between parents and children with an object numbered, since the time of each of us's life is determined by the employer in his own interests? And you are going to bring it and threaten us, and do you think you're going to put it into practice? Then what are you gonna do with the kid? Jacket? Sakko? Here with work, as has been shaped from temporary until current, random or daily, with fifteen hours, five hours, plus thirty two Sundays, plus five Sundays, someone can be in Athens a week, the other in Veria, the third in the Peloponnese and the fourth somewhere else for the cut. What's he gonna do? Will he take the child with him? He's gonna bring it all together for a semester and the kid's gonna change school? What school to change? Sunday is not in place, eight hours is not in place, the money is not in place, wages and jobs are not in place, people are blackmailed by every employer, and you come and tell him that? Is it just for the children of civil servants, which, for the time being, is not the abolition of Sunday? Well, I mean, I know. No way! There's no way of doing this! When there are children who are grown up in the seventeen, when there are children who from 15 to work with the machines and when we have the child labour guaranteed throughout the world, are you coming and telling us today that you will regulate it horizontally? Go to your friend Pierracakis, the most effective in making algorithms and very successful in some things, and tell him that he can give you an algorithm to fix it. That's what you did! You have envied "Glory of Pierracakis"! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] What's up with the couples? Karanika-Adoni? Because Karanikas and Adonis found them for drugs! Is it the parents who don't find them because you brought a bill? They've come to apologize to each other and drink coffee! Do you think this is going to be the case with this bill? "Hit down, darling, count with a block of what are you going to do?" [[Applause]] That's how you deal with it! And you're dealing with it in a way that's subtle. You brought some changes to make it look like you're in favour of gender equality. What gender equality? Are you kidding us? Still women's cuts are devastated in relation to men. They're paid less for the same job. Fighting has been done here so that the woman who is a soldier in the barracks can boast! What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u37	Ms. Canelle, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u38	I shall conclude, Mr President. On the day that the House will be working seven days a week, half a hour in the morning and the other half a hour in the night, then we will begin to understand the rest! And I would ask you to do something else: do not you dare say again to any Member of any party, your party or someone else, that he speaks from personal experience! Whew and woe, by unconscious, acquired MPs who don't speak from personal experience when we own MPs go out on the street and try to listen to the world! Unless one is doing so only for public relations and for 'brows'. If he does it from his soul, he comes in here and votes with his conscience and with his soul and not with a party line that can show you the "carbone" and tell you "say it's a diamond, so I can do it to you, my bird, a ring". You don't make rings! "Wings" in the neck you put, i.e. nursing people who are confronted with destruction and now in the game of destruction their children will be pulling out in the bazaar. If you do not understand, you go for a change that is on your hands and you will deliver families more tired, more stricken, more sick, more indignant and hoping for children in a country suffering from ingenuity. This bill will all end up having fewer children in and out of marriage to have less suffering and less guilt on their backs. The country's about to get smaller, and we won't let you!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u39	Please take care of the Step. Before taking the floor, the President of the Greek Solution, I would like to inform the House that on the basis of Rule 72 of the Rules of Procedure, the SYRIZA Members - Progressive Alliance are asking for the following: "We request to hold a roll call vote on Articles 7 and 13 of the draft law of the Ministry of Justice "Meditors regarding relations between parents and children and other issues of family law". This roll-call vote will take place as soon as the draft law is discussed. Also, as the Bureau was informed by the Office of the Chief of Officerial Representation and President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group - Progressive Alliance, the President of SYRIZA Mr. Tsipras has asked for about 12.00 hours to speak. Mr. President of the Greek Solution, Mr. Velopoulos, you have the floor. Please warmly all of you make it easier for me to keep time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u40	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to begin by addressing the Minister, because I know that man is also religious. You know, Minister, the god to build the world took seven days. But Eve was lacking in her wife, who then built her to have company with the man. Male - female, motherhood - fatherhood. So you, today, as a divine New Democracy, are coming to solve even the Gordian bond of God, removing paternity and motherhood. Where? Let me read. This "sexual orientation of the same sex" what did you want to do with it? Hey, I want you here, Minister. Where is the fatherhood and motherhood of Moses, which you invented, Moses, you know, God, etc. You do it all, you are gods really, gods. But there are gods who do good, but there are gods who do evil. Unfortunately you're hurting the country as a whole, Minister. And you're one of the people that I value boundlessly for his morality and I didn't expect you to sign a bill of this kind that you're a religious person. Parenthood and maternity are sacred concepts, Minister. If you can tell them out, your right, but you cannot George and Nikos marry and accept a child. It can't be done, it's an eyewitness. And I am sure, beyond the progressive left, which has its own perception and view, that many of the Members of the New Democracy agree and is seen by your reactions. For the sacred and loyal family and country, Minister, take it back now. Now! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Because step by step you're taking us. The Prime Minister, when a Member was a Member, voted for a gender change at sixteen. You come and you dismantle fatherhood and motherhood, you will also pass a law on the adoption of homosexual couples. I don't care what everyone does to his bed, let him do whatever he wants. Everyone does what they want in their bed, but I mustn't do the unnatural to do it physically, the only thing I can do by nature. It can't be done. God, like New Democracy, can do it. But I am still here because it is a failed bill, which once again proves that it divides the Greek people. After you were able to divide the hundred and fifty eight of your MPs, who are a fist, vote all trailers, and divide them into it means you're not doing well. And "I beg", I ask the Members of the New Democracy to stand up, protect the sacred and loyal family to protect Greece, because what comes is worse than what you think you are doing now. For a crime, Minister, political is taking a step forward. This is how it happened with Skopje and today you are ready to sign the Memorandums, the Protocols. This has been the case with national issues for decades, we are now dealing with them, step by step. One doesn't make the mistake. Because, in the view of the New Democracy, your State, the State of SYRIZA, has continued, but the state of the shameful Ambassadors' agreement. I see a lot of MPs in here who were at the rally. We forgot about that. Oh, no. I'm appealing to you. You'll still have two years of life. Leave behind a sanctuary for homeland. I dare say - because Corinth burned last night, I don't know if you've heard of it, burned a beautiful, virgin forest - and I warn the government, not to see time wind turbulents and licenses in the poor region, you'll be moral perpetrators of what happened. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Because this was also done in southern Evia. Evia's been burning for years and we said, "Why is Evia burning, guys?" And today he filled wind turbines. You understand, gentlemen, what's going on? Some people set fires because they shouldn't grow trees but grow wind turbines. Stop this crime. Athens today is suffocated by the ashes. Also, why didn't 112 work? The "112", which the Prime Minister had come out and made statements and proclamations. Not even one sms left to evacuate the space again. We had the same mistakes again. The citizens weren't notified to leave, why? Why? I don't know how many you visited Corinth and the forest area. It's a beautiful forest. Now you're about to put on wind turbines. That's who you are. To serve who? Your German friends, as the Prime Minister said when he abolished the lignite, which Germany holds up to 2038 lignite and you abolish the country's national wealth, so that your German friends can work! That's the truth. The Prime Minister himself said so in his interview. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] But let's go to the rest. I wonder about our state leadership and our political leadership. I read yesterday's message from the President of the Republic about the Genocide of the Pontius, my Admiral, which reads: "We are today commemorating the memory of the hundreds of thousands of victims of Pontian Hellenism, who has been cruelly exterminated. The international recognition of genocide and its unambiguous condemnation is a debt to all of us and a deep political and human act." Let me ask you something. Who killed them? The Izmir crowd? How did they get killed? Why doesn't he dare say the word 'Turkey', 'Turkey', 'Erdogan's fascists'? He doesn't dare say it! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] So is the Prime Minister. ‘Tweet’ of the country's Prime Minister for the Genocide of the Pontius. And I'm waiting for him, any politician, because I'm one half Pontius, to recognize the genocide of the Greek state. Never. "One and a half years later we remember, fight, rally. Pontian Hellenism doesn't forget. Go ahead. Their lyra will mourn up and their glory will sing hope. And the day of memory will stay alive until it becomes a day of justice." He's not a prime minister. He's a poet. A poet, Mr. Mitsotakis. And I ask you: where is the word 'Turk'? Where is the word 'Turkey', where is the word 'Mongols' that killed the Pontians? Why doesn't he dare write it? Why don't they dare mention it? That's the problem. It is a moral, historical obligation for all of us to show the fear of some. And I will tell you something: New Democracy is a party of patriotic households. The voters are housewives, and they see that. They see them. You are no longer a New Democracy. You are a mutant New Republic of the Central Left, PASOK, KINAL and SYRIZA. These are you, and some of you must stand up. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] The Turks arrived in Serifos today. Did you hear? Did anyone find out? That's why the Prime Minister isn't talking. We had fishermen once again in the Aegean Sea. They got to Sherifo, and that's what scares me. In Serifos, a fishing company, because no government has made fishing zones, as I told the Prime Minister a year ago to make fishing zones, because the date is ending in March 2021. We have lost this historic opportunity too. And the Greek fish are baptized Turkish and the Turks are selling it again in Greece to save 100 million euros a year from the Greek fish of the Aegean. But of course we had a Minister in the past saying that "the Aegean belongs to its fish". It was PASOK. Today half of PASOK is to you and the other half to SYRIZA. This is your party ideological point of view, collecting all strays. Where is that voice, patriotic, right wing, centre-right wing, talking about nation, Orthodoxy, for homeland, for ideology, for borders and for Greeks? Where is he? [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] And I address the voters of the New Democracy to the housewives of your party. This party no longer has anything to do with its traditional ideological background, with the patriotic party. I will speak with examples. First, citizenship to foreigners. Secondly, a basal to the Greeks and Adonis Georgiadis apologies. Well, from Adoni Georgiadis, I'm expecting everything. There isn't. Tomorrow he can say that Greece is up to Tempis. He can come out and say that, to the spear, I know, and he's sorry to say to Karanika! Thirdly, gender change at sixteen. Parent one, parent two. Zafe's fake in Athens, you've seen him before. Six, a message from Prime Minister, many Ministers for LGBTKI. He texted the country's Prime Minister about LGBTKI. He did not, however, message about the family of the Greeks and the traditional values, which were the day before, just for the family. Seven, you didn't do anything about Katsifa, about the Northcontinentals who had elections and stole the votes. Eighth, crime. Greece became Sinaloa, became Kabul. There's no law and order. Only in words do you make for law and order. These only eight examples and many more I could quote to the soul, to the conscience, to the very ideology of the voter of the New Democracy who loves homeland, loves Orthodoxy, loves Greece, as I want to believe we all love it in here. But you do exactly the opposite. And from the Greek Solution, the only patriotic party - and I say it with great letters, patriotic party - Greek party, the only solution for the place will only hear truths with arguments and seriousness. You don't have anything to do with it. Objections and seriousness. And say something. You booked Greece. You have committed crimes with Lockdown, crimes, damages businessmen and you've done it many times. You have dissolved the web of small and medium-sized enterprises. You've broken up the business. You dismantled me and now I'm stranding on whether or not I'm gonna fire people. Because I no longer have the opportunity to pay out of my pocket constantly what you are making me pay: the high tax. Make the tax 10% -15% stay in Greece. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Not to beg of me any "FRAPORT" or "Greek Gold" that does not pay a tax of 1 euro. But you know, Admiral, ignorance is not a bad thing. Oh, no. Thinking you know and being ignorant is worse. Because what I said applies to Romania. The tax in Romania is 3%. And its GDP of 160 billion seven years ago is 230 billion now. Ellas from 300 billion she had a few years ago went to 170 billion. These are the successes of the New Democracy, KINAL and SYRIZA. Without productive tissue, without wealth generation, we will go to the tartars as a country. I repeat, stress it and point it out. I want you to understand that. You don't get it. Can I tell you why? Because no one or a few in here has worked in their lives. Because other service provision, other public employee and other wealth producing. When you produce wealth, you produce jobs. The service provision needs to be provided. But from the production of wealth, the state will have money to pay you, any civil servant, any officer, any judge. Production of wealth. Understood. There's no other way. Because you've been slapping us with the benefits, I'm going to say once more that I'm against the benefits. I'm against the benefits. It is shameful to grant unemployment. We're subsidising softness and lazyness. I would be pleased if there were a plan by the government to create new posts so that the Greeks could work and provide the state with guarantees. To work for the Greeks. Find out what friction means with work. But what are you doing? I'll tell you what. You're subsidising workers and businesses, but with loan. Do you know that the money we get from the Development Fund must be returned in the coming years? Do you understand that? Are you aware of this? Loaning and giving means that this money must be returned with interest. Where are you going to get them from? Has the government talked about a particular plan that they will get the money out of there? But you know, you have a Prime Minister who didn't come here yesterday to talk about the Pontius genocide. No presidential party came. Everyone was gone. But the Prime Minister ran to the opening of the "FRAPORT". This investment is for laughing and crying. By lending from Greek banks, "FRAPORT" invested in Greece. Make me such an investor buy you whatever you want. Airports, ports, roads. Give me my loans and I'll pay for it. It's okay. Make me a 90% haircut, as you did on "First Theme", as you did to "SKAI" and I will make you the businessman. It's just stuff, gentlemen. Serve the fewers every day at the expense of the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u41	Mr President, it is too late to hear the good things you say.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u42	Next time, I'll get a headphone to listen to you better. There's something special headphones to listen to. Let's actually go. Pandemic. So let's clear the terms because I'm tired of hearing 'SCAI', listening to all the fake canals, those channels that Mr. Paulakis once called - they're not here - they're calling their bothane. Unfortunately, I will say this directly, I am now beginning to understand that there is a boulder, a canal unit, the unique positioning of New Democracy's support with nails and teeth. The Greek Solution is missing from everywhere. There's no Mera25 missing. I'm only seeing SYRIZA, little KIC, quite often KINAL, because you're the same. What does pandemic mean? Look for a dictionary. I can hear the word 'pandemic' by experts and by unskilled people in the channels. A pandemic means to fall dead in the streets. What this planet is facing is an epidemic, gentlemen. Another pandemic, another epidemic. ‘Environment: within a municipality, disease exacerbation over a given period of time to an extent greater than expected’. Let's find out Greek in here. "The pandemic: an epidemic of infectious diseases spreads on a global scale and threatens almost all of the planet." They're falling dead down. So we have an epidemic. I ask you the successors of the New Democracy. In April last year, the Greek Solution, I, proposed to the Greek Prime Minister to set up a committee with specific scientists, colleagues. Have scientists an epidemic. He must have a crisis management specialist. Gentlemen of the New Democracy, your committee in crisis management has Mr. Hardalia. An excellent man, a sympathetic person, otherwise, but where does Mr. Chardalia know about crisis management? How is the crisis management expert, Mr. Chardalias? He needed scientists who know mathematical sociology, psychology. You needed psychiatrists and psychologists. Systems science, data science, operational research, behavioural economics, science decision-making analysis. That is all I say to you, the committees should have it. That's the expert committee you've done. And you went and you put the plastic surgeon who made breasts and noses on women - I like him otherwise - Mr. Hendactyl coming out... Yes, ma'am, yes! Plastic surgeon is the man. He's neither an epidemiologist nor an infectious person! He's a plastic surgeon. You demand all others who disagree with these views, but you flag Mrs. Pagony who is not an epidemic. I don't have anything with people. I have a lie with which the channels are bombing the Greek people every day. That's my difference. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] And also, what does the Greek Solution say? The Greek Solution is a party that speaks with logic. When we talk about pandemic or an epidemic, what should the other one wonder when he makes a vaccine? Who's his manufacturer? First of all, you go and take a car. Aren't you looking for the manufacturer, seeing if the company's good or not? Are you going to pick up a Chinese that might be a monkey? You'll get a real car. The history of manufacturers. I've said it here too many times. Pharmaceuticals are not good institutions. They're profitable business. They have done too many experiments in Africa and killed people, murdered people with the creation of vaccines, such as Bill Gates's group in Africa recently. Test time. That's what the Greek Solution says. Who suggests? Are they experts? Efficacy. If necessary for age, if they have side effects and the number of deaths reported. All these questions have been asked on several occasions to the Prime Minister and his ministers and never answered by any of you. Never! Because SKAI says so, do everyone have to get a vaccine? You tell me. Because he says it's the Hattoyl, the plastic surgeon? Immunity and irresistible by Mr. Mitsotakis, the whole committee and the political officers! Why did you do the impunity? If you were sure. And Muntaniere, - virologist, nobelist, has taken Nobel Medical - and he says "I will not be vaccinated, the vaccines are responsible for the mutations". Nobelos! And you bring me the Epakyl and the Pagogna and the others, Syssa and Trishas. Are we serious? Really? And I'm going out and I'm going to say "do the vaccine"? The sitter is self-advised for his own body and does whatever he wants. Anyone who wants to do it, whoever wants to do it doesn't. Stop committing the crime of persuasion by force on television. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] And let me tell you one last thing, my Minister. Noah was a conspiracy officer. That's what they said then. He told them there was going to be a flood and everyone was laughing. Until it began to rain, Minister. The problem with you is it's raining and you think... Let's not say it now. Don't say it. I honestly say it with soul pain. I'm not a conspiracy officer. But I'll testify in the Minutes a DVD I have. Anyone who wants and cares can see it. So I read what DVD says, mot a mot. Recording by the chosen Prime Minister of the country, the "Great Re-start", Klaus Svab, in a television interview. Mrs. Gennamas, if you'd like, I'll send them to your office. He says it on French TV: “We will implant chips to people in the next ten years”, 2016. Guys, listen up, it's an interview. Stop at last questioning everything. You're not questioning the vaccine, but you're questioning Swab. Not Velopoulos, Svab says it. I'll leave it here for his interview and those who are serious and reasonable people will read it. To understand what's coming. I'm not telling you it's going to happen. Svab said it in 2016, whose book "Great Restart" has it on his desk. I don't think it's gonna happen. I don't believe Swab in general. But when the Prime Minister of the country has him as a totem, then something's wrong. That's what I'm telling you, to understand what mistakes you're making. And you make criminal mistakes. Wrong one: Decision of the Committee on Infectious Substances. Meeting on May 18th, this year: Do not recommend the Ministry of Health use monoclonal antibodies as treatment for CIVID patients. Criminal decision. In Germany they did. You don't do this here. It's a drug cocktail that he cured Trump for a few days. 'Green light from the European Medicines Agency' on 5 March. Why don't you bring the drugs? Why? The European Medicines Agency gives green light. EOF, the Greek, and the committee don't give. Why? Look into it. The second mistake. Free PCR test in France for the French. It has been announced that it will also be free for tourists, who will go to France. In Greece you deal with self-tests. Since March - April last year I told you "PCR, normally do molecular tests, don't do these "male" tests in the world. Third mistake. Who's to blame for the bad management of the pandemic? I'll say it straight away. I'm not messing with the government, it's not the government's fault because it's the government. He's got the irresponsible now. Because whatever he does, no one can be prosecuted. Because it is quite simply the directives that come from Berlin. What Berlin tells you to do, but you're also making the wrong use of orders. Listen to it. Fourth mistake. Command for non-production of medicines - vaccines, avoid production of medicines. I said it in September: "Take the "Sputnik", "go here Russia", "take the vaccine", "take China", "make a factory", "let's do it!". You didn't. Fifth mistake. Vaccines and doses. The FDA licence has been issued for two experimental doses. I repeat it to those who don't understand what I'm saying to them. The vaccine based on the World Health Organisation is conditional, it is test, it is experimental, it says the World Health Organisation. It's experimental. If people want to be experimental animals, they have the potential to be. I'll never make Greek a experimental animal! Whoever wants to do it. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Also, we were told by the same people that two doses were enough. Now we need a third dose. We're gonna be like vaccine addicts, we're gonna be sick, vaccine patients. Do you understand? Four, five, six, seven, eight, ten, twenty doses. Are we serious? Mistake. You fooled the people with the sms and Mrs. Pagoy came out and said laughing at "NT-1" to Mr. Papadakis that "I never sent sms, ever, ever." In other words, the citizen should also send those who call him "sms" not to send. This is your government, and this is your committee. Seventh mistake. The "investors" brought you the mutations. Illegal immigrants brought Nigerian mutation to the center of Athens. It's not Athenian mutation. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] And that is what Mrs Psaltopoulou, professor of epidemiology, preventive medicine, not Velopoulos. And you see that every time I quote arguments. Eighth mistake. They say the neo-democrats - listen to the intelligence of the executives - that those who refuse to dismiss the vaccine from the public, quarantine, extremism from society, because they are antisocial. The same neo-democrats, the executives, can't tolerate illegal immigrants being vaccinated, taking 500 euros, taking citizenship too. I mean, the Greek man you're after, but the illegal immigrants and the one who's in the UFOs and the structures you let him do whatever he wants. This is racism against the Greeks. You are racist with your choices towards the Greeks. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Ninth wrong. Vaccination in Greece. Theodora Hatzioannos, a university virology professor in New York. It directly contradicts what the Greek Government communicates. Greece is very back in vaccinations, the professor says. The percentage of the population that has completed both doses of the vaccine is extremely small, not even a third of the population has arrived. Even in your account, which is vaccination - which I do not believe - you are a loser. But you're a loser here, too. I won't tell about the dead that we're from the first million to the dead. I'm telling you specific things. Check them out. Don't react. I'll tell you this. If some people think that they are sprayed by those who disagree with the authoritarian choice of your own anti-democratic obligation to do in a child seven years old vaccine, then I will directly tell you that you are the sprayed ones, you are the blurred ones and not the ones we say to a seven-year-old that "you can't do the vaccine." It's just stuff. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] I was listening to Mr. Kouvela say it's a twisted and devilish mind whoever goes to do in a seven-year-old child's vaccine. I was listening to a French teacher saying it's crazy what's going on with the kids. And you follow the train. Is that possible? You don't say how many side effects, how many deaths are from the vaccine in our country. There are from Germany, from Italy, from France, but Greece doesn't give them. One dies in a hospital from a heart attack and is asymptomatic with a coronary, "dead of a coronary". One who did the vaccine or has thrombosis after ten days because he did the vaccine, "it's not because of the vaccine." You all go out and say it's not your fault. It's unbelievable what's going on with brainwashing and bothering me. It bothers me as a human. I won't tell you how many people died and how many didn't die, but I'll tell you what happened yesterday in Texas. I'll submit the whole text to the Minutes. The governor of Texas forbids and fines, in other states of the United States, to those wearing a mask. Do you understand? Because he says he has decided that the mask creates greater problems. I'll give a simple example, friends and friends, and I'll be closed soon. Is it possible for any of you to believe a human here, any of you, that a mask that makes it hard for you to breathe, to take oxygen doesn't cause health problems? Tell me a man who believes that a mask that prevents the influx of oxygen into man does not cause problems. Is there a scientist who really says that and he's signing it? Not SCAI. I say a serious scientist, not a STAR and MEGA. These are the government's liquor stores, whatever it says! So, Mrs. Gennamas, you're not tired? Starts at 7:00 in the morning, SKAY with the Minister of the New Democracy and two journalists New Democracy, at 7:30, the Minister saw two journalists from the New Democracy, at 8:00, the Minister saw them. These are all New Democracy. Until 9.50, all the ministers of the New Democracy attended. And they're throwing us a streak, either PASOK or SYRIZA, and that's it. These are Greek channels. That's the briefing. You want this briefing? We don't want her. And because I want to close up with the economy, I'm gonna talk a little bit about the economy. Friends and friends, it's unprecedented to destroy the economy. In the first five months of the year the budget deficit amounted to EUR 8.8 billion against a deficit of 4 billion in 2020. And I tell the neo-democrats who do not understand that after the pandemic, as they mean, the pandemic of the economy will come. It's more than double our deficit and catastrophic. The primary result was a deficit of EUR 6.2 billion, compared with a primary deficit of 1.5 for the same period of 2020. We are talking about quadrupling the primary deficit in relation to 2020. This is the development of the New Democracy, only debts, loans and discounts. That's who you are! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] And because the admiral is missing, I want to tell him what South Korean President Moon Jae Inn did on his visit to SAMSUNG. Presented Korea's new investment programme. He stressed that they have completed the preparation to deal with the troubled times that are coming from Koreans. Its President, in the context of the planning, offers: tax exemptions, low-interest loans, favourable repayment conditions, relaxation of regulations in the sector, cancellation of debts. Make debt write off to small and medium-sized enterprises to move the economy. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] If you're not ready and you don't have a plan for the economy, copy successful models, tell you, and there are. Let the Prime Minister go - not only to the "FRAPORT" which is German - and to the drone company in Chania, Crete. He's from Chania too, man. There's a company that manufactures drone and was awarded, please. She's an excellent company in Chania. Essentially new products are being created to create our own drone. In Chania, where Mrs Bakoyannis has gone lately, because no one deprives her of the right to go to Crete. This is what I tell you because there are proposals. In conclusion, I would like to say this, gentlemen of the New Democracy. Where did you get the Greek? How many people did you see in the video what happened in Rhodes? They were celebrating where the tourists came. And Araxos celebrated and in Corfu people came out and made mascots and traditional dances. They were celebrating because the tourists came. We arrived in 1968 and in the Greek film "Gorgones and dudes". Mr. Poppas laughs. Then they all gathered on an island in Greece to meet the tourists who will come to give their money and ate the burgers. That's who you are. Do you understand? That's how you made the Greek beggar. You made the Greek bite. We had the same in Rhodes and in other areas. I'm just going to say it straight away: What is New Democracy doing? And I have one, otherwise, good and kind MP to me, Mr. Plearis. Discussion with the New Democracy master, colleagues of SYRIZA: "Greece is filling up with illegal immigrants and we must do something", you tell them. Answer: 'Yes, but SYRIZA opened the border'. I didn't get it. You tell the neo-democrat: 'They come from Evros every day'. Answer: "Yes, but SYRIZA did nothing." You say: “The economy is falling apart. Answer: "Yes, but SYRIZA did this." That's who you are, gentlemen. With the failure of SYRIZA you justify your criminal negligence and criminal errors. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] That's as far as it goes. From now on, you will have us on the table with arguments and proposals. And, too, you are the part of the division. You're the party of discrimination. You are the party that for the first time a Greek Prime Minister for those who ministered to be "sprayed". And who's talking about discrimination? The New Democracy, which itself has divided the country with "sprayed" and "uninhabited", the open-minded Prime Minister, who today with his bill and his Minister wants to become the new Moses and the new God. God made man and woman, they make 1, 2, 3, 4 motherhood, fatherhood X as "PRO - PDO" and "JOKER".
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u43	Complete, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u44	I'm closing up with justice. Mr Minister, I will say this once again, and I have told you, and in private, you will at last really decide on justice to work. We can't blame the Greek all the time. We really don't blame him. We cannot give 429 euros, chosen by Mr Plearis, for those who, a few years ago, wanted you, Adonis, Makis, only for the illegal immigrants for the feeding. A billion was said to me by Mr Metarakis, in a written reply we are giving for the feeding of forty thousand illegal immigrants. You, Mr. Plearis, and the rest of you would have sent them away. You won't mosque the Botanic. You. Not personally, your ideology, the true patriots of the New Democracy as you identify yourself. But the true patriots of the New Democracy with your tolerance, with your vote you allow the crime of poaching on a daily basis. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Just a billion for food? I'll say it or I'll say it. If we gave a billion to the new couples, to the Greeks having children, we'd solve the demographics. This is the Greek solution. One billion will go to the Greeks who get married to have children and not to illegal immigrants who enter the country. That's our difference. First Greece, first Greek! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] And I'll say it anyway. I wish I had money to feed the whole world, Mr. Pleari, as a country. We can't afford to feed the Greeks...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u45	Mr President, please conclude. It has become more than doubled over time. Please warmly. I am protested by the leaders, who have already planned the time, and I must also manage the situation.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u46	Listen, my colleague. The President of PASOK asked to speak at 12: 00. It's 12: 01. Do you want me to close? As many times as Mrs. Gennamas has spent time, we never talked. Stop doing this.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u47	I've almost never been over time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u48	No, Madam President, please. I'm noble, but up to a limit. I'm hanging up here saying this. At some point, gentlemen of the New Democracy, you have to take responsibility. The responsibility is the vote that the Greek people have put forward. Everything you do is opposite what you've been told. Whatever you committed, you do it backwards. I won't just say Skopje. Even for the economy, you were talking about tax exemptions and a reduced tax on businesses. You continue the same criminal mistakes in the economy. I'll tell you something, and I'll finish here. If the voter of the New Democracy does not realize that this party is not the New Democracy, it is not a party that he or the rest of the parties believed and does not understand that it is Greece first, first it is the Greeks, then we will go to the moor deeper and has no return. We need four years. We are the solution, the only solution, the Greek solution! That's all we've been asking for, like, four years.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u49	Please take care of the Step. I'll tell the program to keep you informed. Now the President of the Change Movement, Mr. Fofi Gennimata, will take the floor. Mrs Papagas will then speak, and then the President of SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance and Chief of Staff, Mr Alexis Tsipras. Here, Mrs. Gennamas, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u50	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, since you are here, I would like to start my intervention on crime issues very soon, because the bill we are discussing is very serious. However, serious crime, organised crime, has taken uncontrolled proportions lately in our country and you have been confined to post-release announcements for stricter law and the Criminal Code. In fact, yesterday, we saw the Minister responsible for making a video show with files. In fact, he admitted his inability to deal with the problem. He basically confessed to the failure of the prosecution authorities and tried to transfer all responsibility to justice. It is an unacceptable communication game for who will finally keep the "bugs". It is clear that the Government and the Minister for Civil Protection prefer to deal with demonstrations and universities rather than strengthen police departments in the neighbourhoods. But citizens demand that they finally feel safe for their lives, for their property, for their ability to work safely, wherever they are in Greece. We tabled ten very specific proposals yesterday. Finally, take advantage of them and put aside the communal tricks! And a second very important issue. We hear every day about child disappearances. We would like, at the first opportunity, to inform us and provide us with five-year-old data on whether you consider that there is an organised network of trafficking in our country, but also data in relation to domestic violence. Because we know for sure that it has increased after a year and a half of quarantine, and it is certainly an element that leads to minor children leaving their homes. It is an issue that must concern us and we want concrete information from you. Ladies and gentlemen, on the subject of family law, we are relying on two basic principles. The first is to ensure the rights of the child and the second is gender equality. The interest and development of the child are related to the environment in which he lives, and this environment is certainly shaped by his parents, but also by the state and the laws he lays down. The state must create a safe framework where children, but also each parent, can live safely, will not be excluded and, of course, will not be abused. Our resignation to this sector has been a pioneer. It has always moved with these basic principles. We are the ones who have made progress in the very big areas, in the major reforms of family law. First by Law No 1329/1983, which replaced the parental authority with parental responsibility. He finally came, Minister, the child at the forefront. From the assets of the parents, and above all of the father, it has been declared to be a central element of the philosophy of legislation, and so it must remain, there will be no such huge regression, which will be there if you do not change anything in what you have brought us to vote on. Then came the reform with Law 2247/1996, which introduced to special courts cases of family law, but which was not completed under the responsibility of the judiciary itself, since this was not served with specialised judges. They are reforms that bear the signature of PASOK and for which we are absolutely proud today and despite the climate that prevailed when they were voted, where we were in fact almost alone, today all the wings of the Parliament recognize that it is a very important acquis for the Greek family, for the Greek society. So the first question we have to answer today is whether there is a need for changes in family law and if so, what direction should these changes be? What are the conclusions from the implementation of the legal framework to date? Are there any problems in practice? Our answer, therefore, is quite clear: First, the current family law is one of the most progressive in Europe, even today, so many years later, with a childcare and gender equality. It is fully in line with our Constitution and international and European law. It fully safeguards the rights of parents in joint custody of children, following their own agreement. There is no problem in this part. However, it is necessary to supplement the law on the disputes between the couple and the child - there are problems - in order to avoid injustices, conflicts, exclusions and difficult situations which exist, indeed. Because there are also inconsistent or even inaccurate judicial decisions, which, instead of alleviating, the problems between parents, who always have negative consequences and negative impact on the child itself. In these cases, therefore, an integrated approach is needed and an experienced and reliable assessor is needed. In order to address this issue, we are proposing the establishment of a modern family court, taking advantage of the relevant experience from countries that this institution already applies, such as the United States of America, Germany, Australia, Japan and many other countries. These courts must be served with judges specialised in family law, with specific training courses in cooperation with the National School of Judiciary and with the legal schools of the country and with the contribution of a certified staff of experts. We need psychologists, doctors, teachers, sociologists to support qualified judges. They will, in other words, have all the guarantees to implement the law in a documented manner, based on the findings of these experts and always in the interests of the child. That's what we're proposing. The government rejects it, but we insist and we insist. This whole time we are working with experts - not on our own - and we will shortly be putting forward a comprehensive proposal on how it can work, finally, and the family court in Greece should also be established, because that is the gap, that is the problem, this must be corrected and covered. The question then arises if the needs described by the bill we are discussing are met. Our response, and here it is a clear 'no'. On the contrary, we're losing another chance. The regulations made by the government not only meet the needs but managed to create conflicts and divide Greek society. And that is unacceptable! This bill is not a reform. It leads to deregulation. It will lead to much larger disputes - and court proceedings - than is supposed to be trying to resolve today. The Minister for Justice has provoked even the draft drawn up by the Legislative Committee set up by him, with approved lawyers and teachers under the chairmanship of Mr Tenten. Why did you make it the Legislative Committee, since you did not intend to listen to their suggestions and tossed them in the basket of unusable? In fact, you have adopted unacceptable regulations which had been rejected by a large majority by the committee. The government did not go through the necessary dialogue, neither with women's organisations nor with civil society. I do not know exactly who you have discussed, Minister, and you have come up with these proposals that have been rejected by the lawyers you have asked to consult. You obviously heard some people. You could tell us who, at the end of the day, you spoke to, to reach out to these specific proposals you have brought. The regulations therefore create new serious risks, because they leave the child exposed - as a rule and the woman - even domestic violence. We are not trapped in the false dilemma that the government created "with moms or with dads"? What we care about is the interest of the child. Children must in no way work either from their mothers or from their fathers. Finally, I would like to point out that I consider the regulations that overthrow the pediatrical nature of family law to be completely wrong. The child’s interest cannot be treated with reasonable fauna. Not all cases are the same. It needs a personalised approach. Secondly, the provisions of the bill actually introduce from the window the logic of the alternating residence. The changes you have made today do not correct the problem that arises for that, and we totally disagree. That is what the institutions are aware of. Because this logic emotionally harms the child, depriving him of the necessary stable environment, but also of the constant conditions of life. You're in danger of having a tourist child! That is unacceptable. Thirdly, enter the horizontal presumption, one third of the year, on the right of parents to communicate with children. In fact, Minister, what you want to do is to influence any judicial decisions in the case of parental disagreement, guide from now on the decisions that the judges have to make in these cases. And I wonder: Do you have, uh, think about how this third is defined? Even with the time when the kid devotes to school, his sleep time? So what, the kid's relationships with his parents are determined by the dawn? Have you taken a break and counted to adjust this one third to the lives of children and families? And fourthly, I think it is totally unacceptable to provide for the need for a final judicial decision in order to take action in relation to the custody of the child against parents exercising domestic violence. I'm just creeping around thinking about it. We all understand that this provision exposes the child and the woman, leaves them unprotected for many years to phenomena of all kinds of violence with your signature and with the vote of your MPs. I would ask you very much to reconsider this and, above all, to consider it again. It's not just about women. It's all about us. We have a huge responsibility. And, of course, this is in direct contrast with the relevant provisions of the International Conventions on the Rights of the Child and the prevention and fight against violence against women. Ladies and gentlemen, for these reasons it is clear that we are voting against the draft law brought by the government. Your plan does not solve the problems and does not serve the rights of the child. It neglects the interest of the child, who to date is and must remain the cornerstone of family law. In this sterile and inefficient approach we are comparing our own positive reform proposal for a modern, truly fair family law, with practicable and realistic reforms that come and solve the problems that have arisen in recent years, but always with the child at the centre. That's our position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u51	We also thank Mrs Gennamas and the consistency in time. I would ask the former Secretary-General of the Communist Party to settle the Step sanitary.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u52	No more ex-wife. What one is today.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u53	All right, Mrs. Aleka Papariga has the floor. I am honoured for a period of time and I say it because we have been together for many years here.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u54	It reminds me of those who have become ministers for three to four months and after ten years they are called 'My Minister'! Today's bill was surrounded by the government with a slogan that it is intended to ensure joint parental care in the event that a form of cohabitation corresponding to some form, marriage or non-marriage, etc. is solved. That's not what we're concerned with. In fact, this right general position is undermined and undermined by some articles in the bill - both the JRC Members and the other opposition parties have said -, such as 'equivalent', such as 'one third', as is the fact that there is nothing for the financial support of divorced parents, those who, in any event, cease cohabit cohabitation. And if you want, there has been too much specialization in a gray - literally - and an invisible zone concerning mediation, the extrajudicial compromise which, as far as possible, one can learn - has, of course, been implemented not only in this particular case but also in serious criminal offences in other countries, starring the United States of America. In the United States, there are pressures, unseen blackmails. And even if the rivals have a separate lawyer, even in divorces, there to see what happens: blackmail, threats, under fear that the trial will not arrive in court. They are a very grey zone and we are also radically opposed to this issue. I would stress that, because I have not heard any other parties in the opposition, which it considered - and in the right direction - to refer to certain articles. Let me ask you a question. It is rightly said that parental care must be based, based on the best interests of the child or child. That's very right. However, from too many speeches I have heard, even speeches of political leaders, I have the impression - I do not know if I fall out, I wish to fall out - that in a way that seems to be a release - I am not saying absolute, but a release - of the concept of parental care in the interests of the child. Of course, the divorce must be taken into account, not the idiosyncrasies, self-centeration, the avengering spirit between the two parents, when divorce comes after the savage conditions of cohabitation, but when we generalise and speak from a position of principle and judge a bill that is rightly criticised in these respects, it seems deliberately to be parental care to be released. Here's parental care, here's the child's interest, or there's a connection. And the question comes in, and this is about the case of cohabitation and, of course, more prosperous in the case of divorce: This parental care described as love, as a return to the rights of the child, as a quality time, is this parental care irrelevant to the conditions of the family and when it was not in the process of divorce, or was it still on course of marriage declining, but were they living together under the same roof? Is it irrelevant to the conditions, economics, social, political, internal and international? Why do these no longer stand out? So, the ability, devotion to parental care, the individual obligation of the mother and father who brings the child and, of course, has his own obligation to the child, is it easy to exercise? And does it have anything to do with the overall political situation, with the measures taken? And I don't want to be recurring now, but family life not only during the time of the crisis - during the time of the crisis there was a rapid deterioration in the lives of working folk families - but gradually degraded, lost whatever relevant conquests were specifically by industry, industry, etc. And we are now reaching a very serious divide - because we are talking about this particular issue - by a major issue relating to working time and non-working time. You realize that all these things are making family life worse. Even when between the two sexes or the two parents there is absolute compassion, relationships are getting worse. So let us not say that parental care, through the law, ensures the interests of children. Again, I understand legally that there must be such an expression, without 'equal', but in any case, here let us not be fooled. By the way, we heard here about the '83 revolutionary family law. In any case, the '83 family law' had much more developmental and conflicting articles than the current situation in all previous years. Has gender equality been ensured within the family? Uh, it wasn't secured. Are there things that have improved, which, if you like, have worked positively, have changed anachronistic perceptions of a racial division within the family? Yeah. That's what helped and nobody underestimates that. After all, our party fought for such changes that were incorporated and under the general pressure of the movement within family law. Has equality been achieved between the sexes? But here, not even women are equal to each other. Not even men have equality. Aren't the circumstances unequal, unequal to rights between men and also between women? And if you want, a territory of racial origin is cultivated on this basis, let me say it, conflicts which are not, in fact, the primary cause of inequality. So, let's say it clearly: where does each family belong? What policy is being pursued? What strategies? Isn't that a part to play? They're gonna play a part in the divorce. You're gonna tell me, but we're doing a law. Yes, of course, but in here too much was heard and - to be allowed to say - hypocritical words, because I do not think there is a Member here - a man or a woman - who is ignorant. So in divorce, and indeed the "equal" and all these exceptions and the other and the undermining articles in the distribution may play a role in many things that are relevant and in relation to the criteria that women will better live in. And if you like, and the law itself - and the members of the JRC have said so too - will be easier to implement with consensus where the economic conditions exist. Why should we say it? If at the moment the vast majority of a family that symptoms make it hard, you understand what this family means to be in two: two separate houses, two separate pots, all separately. So neither innovative is the bill nor should we rest in the '83 revolutionary law. In addition, too many places have become an attempt to widen the issue of what social support means. We do not disagree with what has been said. They are our proposals too. As far as the family court is concerned, which is not with fast-food lessons and seminars, justice, social workers, psychologists, etc., is concerned, not to say details. It is well known, and I think we all have a common understanding of this. Or other advisory centres, counselling for children and parents inside the family and much more during divorce. All of this is easy to say, if you like, easy to do. Such institutions exist, governmental, extra-government, NGOs, charities, individuals, the Church, there are many such things. The substance, however, begins with the conditions of life and work and the general conditions of the family or family that breaks down its relationships. From this point of view, we understand that what is positive or 'unfair' goes through the bill, without ignoring that there are any improper articles at the expense of having the common compulsory parental care properly applied, it must be the subject of a struggle, integrated - if you like - within the framework of the fight against the rights of workers for life, work, etc. Otherwise, it will be a law, which will have an impact on attitudes, it will make it easier, it can also normalize some situations, but after five and ten years, we will say the same things again. And, by the way, there has been a lot of talk about the UN Convention, the Charter of Rights of the European Union, the Istanbul Treaty, etc. All of this seemed to be the link or - if you want - the government does not incorporate all of this in its bill. We have no objection to getting into bills of international conventions that at least declaratively and verbally can help to cultivate a good conception or create a motive for mass, class-organised struggle and an irresponsible struggle. But you do not explain to us: In this declaration by the UN or in the Charter of European Union's Rights - and do not tell me that this is the responsibility of each government, because we know that we have a single European policy and any party that goes to the government with the 'good morning' which it says is committed, regardless of what it says in the election, to implement them - there is the parental care that is being exercised on the basis of today's needs. Is there social support for the family? To finish, no, ladies and gentlemen. Of course, the family has the peculiarities of its responsibilities, and they cannot be rid of it, but they cannot move, they are not a seconded unit, a bubble that depends everything on parental relations, relationships between children. Unfortunately, political, state intervention is intense and much more widespread than before, but its main objective is mass manipulation of consciences. And in this massive manipulation of consciences of subjection and fatalism, individualism - not individual rights on the basis of social rights - is the way to full resignation and vindicate modern fair demands.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mrs. Pappiga. The floor is held by the Chief of Staff Response and President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group - Progressive Alliance Mr Alexis Tsipras. Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me, before I refer to the bill on child conscientiousness, to dwell on something that I also consider to be very serious: the conscientiousness of democracy. I am using this term, because - I suppose you will all agree, that democracy must be a concern for all of us, the government, the parties, the social organizations and civil society. Democracy is our common cause. The defence, vitality, its connection to the social reality and the needs of the citizen are or should be commonplace for all of us, the common ground for our differences, our disagreements, our reflections, if you like. Unfortunately, however, lately, especially since the pandemic started in our country, this is not the case. What has been happening lately systematically and admirably is that the government of Mr Mitsotakis has been consciously, I would say, to a criminal of the parliamentary procedure and of the very democratic operation. And I speak on the grounds of knowledge, because it is a abuse of democracy, because the way in which the Prime Minister has been in full responsibility for months now is under the command of the Prime Minister, I would say, the parliamentary procedure is being conducted. The House exercises its constitutional powers without the presence of Members, with roll-call votes - obviously in the time of our parliamentary democracy - without the self-determination of Members by authorising the vote to be adopted by the Presidents of Parliament and by secret ballots which do not comply with the criterion of secrecy, the guarantees of secrecy. And democracy is abused the use of a Parliament in repression in order to go through'spray, wipe, finish' legislation critical to society, crucial to the country, crucial to the lives of millions of citizens. As is also the case with the abuse of democracy, the storm of direct awards that abolish any rule of good administration, which leave public funds out of transparency and control, which, if they do not even cause corruption, creates a stifling atmosphere in politics and society. And I ask you: Really, as you operated public funds, public money on the pretext of pandemic, so are you planning to manage the billions of the Recovery Fund, that is, the money that belongs to the Greek people? Public money is European money. Is that how you're gonna manage them? Is that how you plan? By means of Mrs Nicholas' method or Mr Petsa's method, do you share money on 'logues' without criteria, without accountability and constantly set up direct awards? I'm afraid you're planning a combination of the two methods, the Nicholas method and the Pecha method. And this is not only a abuse of democracy, but it is also a sad slippery return to the customer state, to the right-wing client state that led us to bankruptcy in 2009. You're redeeming the House. You cancel the control role in a media democracy by sharing abundant public money in order to form a monopoly and abundant status, so that you can share further undisturbed money in "the left", at the same time as implementing a policy that crushes labour and social rights, in order to benefit a small business elite. Uh, yeah, that's a violation of democracy. As a abuse of democracy it is the Prime Minister not to attend critical meetings and to avoid answering the critical questions posed by the Chief of Police Response, to despise the parliament and the parties, to reconcile itself with the unilateralness of monologues and professions, instead of pluralism and pluralism of democratic dialogue. And I see in the benches and the President of Parliament, who are aware of my personal appreciation. This is political, and I know that this is not a matter for the President of this House. The bulletproof is the choices and orders of the Prime Minister and the Government. However, I would like to ask you: Since when have I called for a debate in this House on these questions of democracy, on the abuse of democracy in the pandemic period? I will answer you from when I have asked: December of last year. You refuse to hold this debate. You have accepted two pre-dated debates in Parliament, requests by Mrs Gennamas and two on the same subject, on the pandemic. The proposal of the L.A.P.D., deny. Do you have the right? Under the Rules of Procedure, you don't have that right. It is a abuse of parliamentary function and democracy ministers not to come here to account for their works, the excellent ones not to account for their statements and actions. We have tabled neither one, two or three - four - fourteen topical questions, in fact ten topical questions and four questions, which you refuse to ask. That's unprecedented! With what reason? Do you have that right? Apparently not. But your concern is how you will fade and how you will disappear every voice of control and criticism from the public debate and from the media with the coarse of money, as well as from the House. And that is unprecedented in parliamentary function. Because we all understand what will happen if the relevant ministers come and take the example of the last time question we have asked, the question that concerns the Centre for the Training of Air Forces in Kalamata, which we have run it and know that this is being solved with the loss of the Greek State for a billion euros and we challenge you not to go ahead with it. But you know that if this timely question is made, you will be irreparably exposed and wanting to avoid it, because you want the hood. As he also doesn't want to come and give answers to Mr.Mitsotakis - the second consecutive week I ask him and he won't come - on the big issue that concerns thousands of Greek families, which their children are preparing today to give all-Greek examinations, and on the basis of the Kerameos law, which you spent in the pandemic zip - I mean, with Parliament in emergency mode - a third of the importers will be cut off. Twenty-five thousand families will cry with black tears. And I ask him to come in and answer why during the pandemic you want to change the way he enters higher education and refuses to come! The answer is why you want to give clients to internal and external colleges, but the Prime Minister refuses to come and answer. One day he has three days to go to Tino, the other day I don't know where he's going to go with ships and helicopters, but he refuses to come to the House. But that is not in line with a democracy. Mid-Term mononomialism and parliamentary speech are not the characteristics of democracy. This is done in other regimes. As, of course, it is inconsistent for you to make fun of us on top of this, you can tell us that the Member can speak online in plenary, but he cannot vote in the roll-call votes in plenary with his own personal presence, even via the Internet. Why? That is why you are saying that there is no technical possibility. Who do you think you're addressing? Who do you think you're addressing? And it is disgraceful that your internal party inability to cost your MPs behind the party line in the votes is to turn it into a weakness of parliamentary function! It is a disgrace to turn it into a problem of democracy! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] With all my responsibility, therefore, I am obliged, ladies and gentlemen, to say to the House today that as a party of Officerial Opposition and as a party fighting for democracy and the functioning of institutions and Parliament we will no longer tolerate this situation! We will no longer tolerate participating in a Parliament with rules of silence, in a House of Shadows, in a shadow House! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And I call on the Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, to put an end here and now to the quarantine of democracy and the Lockdown of Parliament. It is undemocratic and unacceptable that all shops have been opened, that the focus, schools, tourism and kindergartens have been opened and that Parliament should remain incarcerated. If you really are concerned about the health of Members, with the minority of Members not being vaccinated, why didn't you open up a vaccination centre so long, to complete 50, 100 vaccinations? But that's not what you're concerned with. Badly lies, what Mr Mitsotakis thinks about is how he will escape the parliamentary process with normality to pass critical bills for which he knows that his parliamentary group disagrees, such as that of conscientiousness, such as tomorrow's for the medical cannabis, such as the three memorials of cooperation with northern Macedonia, this country that suddenly has no name and you can't pronounce the name and call it the Prime Minister here. Zaev’. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] You are exalting the country internationally because you do not have the guts to bring here to Parliament the memorials that are in the country's interests, because you are afraid, Mr Mitsotakis is afraid of your parliamentary group, because there are some Members who refuse to accept that they should also ask for an apology for the damned footstep of 2018 by 2021, for your misery on foreign policy issues and the demonstrations you have made with extremist elements, while now honour and respect an agreement beneficial to the country. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] That is why you are keeping the parliamentary procedure in lockdown and quarantine, but this is a shame. We will therefore not accept any further restrictions on democratic operation. You voted in the way you voted for the Kerameos Act, imposed the special police force on universities, the immunity of bankers, the bankruptcy of the first residence. You will not impose any more critical bills, especially working in this way. That's it! And I have the honour, Mr President of the House, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, to inform you that, from now on, the SYRIZA Members as a whole will normally come to Parliament, while respecting all health protection measures! But they will normally come to meetings, whether you like it or not! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] When the worker, the small and medium-sized, the young, the citizen needs the assistance of the Member, we are not going to let a government legislate at the expense of society without the right of a representative here. And in and out of the House, struggles are being fought in a democracy! And when you will attempt from now on to turn democracy into a "therapist" of yours and the House into a "shadow theatre", we will not be abducted. We will be here with our presence and with the necessary protection measures, but we will be here to give answers, because it is our duty! And if you want, you can continue this self-determination. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I come here, ladies and gentlemen, on today's subject, and I apologise because I started my speech and did not start with it, but, you know, democracy is never out of the question. The quality of democracy is always present in the quality of all the legislations. This is also the case with the draft law we are debating today and with the way we are discussing it. Because the way in which we are discussing this is the epitome, I would say, of the 'a man's authority' that currently prevails in the political system of the country. Mr Mitsotakis decided to regulate the subject of conscientiousness in the midst of a parliamentary 'caratina'. And I ask: really, who is his moral automobile to enlighten us why the Prime Minister decided and ordered today's arrangements for such a sensitive issue? What's the moral automobile of the law? Where is Mr Mitsotakis himself to come here to Parliament and defend this legislation? We all know that this piece of legislation comes from the top of the state. Where is it to come and explain us? He doesn't want to explain to us. Good! Let him explain to your MPs, to the Members of the New Democracy. Let us answer if not to us, at least to Mrs Kefaliannis, who spoke of serious failures. As he said, serious failures run counter to the core of protecting the child’s interest. Also, where is it to answer Mrs Giannakou with her long and decent presence in the seats of the House and in political life, which, as I heard yesterday and read her speech, denounces? Let me read from the Minutes of the House: we have seen, it says, incredible organisations, parents, contributory, active dads, terrible ads for the bill, which means a lot of money and a identical letter that is sent to us by e-mail with various names, without any real elements, i.e. false ones. And he wonders: Do they so much love their children that they cannot write a letter to send us on this particular subject? Or is it an office that also has money and sends all this with a false nomenclature? That's what Mrs. Giannakou said, I'm not saying it. And I come here to ask, sincerely and straightforwardly, all of you, Minister, gentlemen of the Government, gentlemen of the Couple, who bring this bill, who are those who have money and impose legislation on the Government and Mr Mitsotakis on such a sensitive issue? Who are they, and how is it possible for the money and the power to enforce legislation on such critical and sensitive social issues? And why doesn't Mr. Mitsotakis come here, why is he fugitive to come and give answers? Why doesn't she dare disprove these serious accusations by Mrs Giannakou? Why insist and insist on transferring the culture of confrontation between relatively few divorced parents and couples - fortunately not all divorced couples into a collision orbit - to transfer it to the core of family law? Why - what is even more serious - does he insist on transferring the children between the crossfires of this conflict? Why, instead of promoting consensually, to bridge the disagreements that this draft law has caused, it continues to listen only to one side and to insult the paedophile character of our law, to insult women's organisations, but I will say even to those who have waited for them to face their problems seriously, since this bill is not going to give any solution to their problems? Because, you know, obviously, beyond the big wallets, which Mrs Giannakou directly mentioned, there are those who do not belong to this category and perhaps have one, I will say it, honest and honest. They won't benefit either. But let's start over. Greek family law was shaped in 1983 by the leading Greek lawyers, with the Minister of Justice at the time, Georgios Magakis. He was a model for his time and was described as Europe's most progressive family law, hence he was imitated by other legal classes and inspired by international texts, even by the United Nations. And you're coming today, Minister, to change it. Yes, sir. Perhaps I will say, even the best legislations over time need change. But how? Ignoring special legal committees, scientific bodies, lawyers and judges, university professors, civil society bodies, and even the Scientific Committee of the Parliament? Okay, you're not a lawman. But you do not need to be legal in order to be aware of the institutional process. And I will say this directly, not personally, but your Government has a specific institutional progenitor. Is this the practice of the excellences, write to the oldest of your shoes all those institutional processes that predict the changes you are trying to make? But I want to go back to 'why'. Why is the Prime Minister doing this? Why in the bill are you treating the child as being a plot for distribution between parents? Why, while the legislator internationally wants to be the judge who seeks, in each particular case, which is different, what is the real interest of the child concerned, is the legislator of Mr Mitsotakis coming to commit him and tell him what, first and foremost, he will consider himself in the best interests of the child? Why, since the child's physical, material, spiritual, mental and moral interests impose it, cannot the judge issue his judgment and be bound by your law by unacceptable checks? And why is the 'joint' of parental care implying a childcare community distorted into 'equivalent', as if we were dealing with some kind of asset difference that we want to break up with? Why is the legislator ignoring that women are not yet wage and work in the place that would allow them to contribute equally to many needs of the child, but the needs of the child are not all measurable so that one can be found and the second one to be shared that each one should contribute? Equally, yes, parental care should be exercised, but not equally. Because, by introducing this condition, the compulsory equal distribution of parental care is introduced. I repeat: compulsory equal distribution. In this way, you impose the alternating residence. But what will be facing a child, I mean psychological, psychological risks, count or treat the child as if it is a suitcase transferred weekly from one parent to another in an eternal and destructive way of shaping the child's movement to a very sensitive age? It is precisely in the same logic that the provision of the presumption of communication is based on a minimum of one third. A third of whose? Twenty-four-four hours, a week, of leisure hours, a weekend parent and a parent of daily obligations? And what about a number of practical issues, such as when parents stay away from each other or when they are forced to move to other areas to work? What about the parents who will be forced to work overtime that Mr. Hatzidakis wants to impose with Mr. Mitsotakis? There the landscape will be a nightmare, since only the strong parent will prevail in the intercystinda that is to be formed. And when I say strong, I mean strong economic, socio-economic. This will recycle a war with a victim, but always the child. You know what? Neither can one or the other parent be happy if the child is unhappy. So here, we don't have to do this - I repeat - with a conflict between dads and moms. Here we have a choice that levels the child. You treat it as a common possession, a branch of his parents. The child should adapt to the needs of his parents and not the parents to the needs of the child. This is being voted on today. Even worse, in disregarding what is provided for in the Istanbul Convention that has been ratified in our governance, the draft law does not contain the necessary provisions to ensure that one parent - usually mother, badly, and child, will be protected completely and without any kind of legal asterists in relation to the malicious parent. Here I dare say that you are committing a mistake which is worse than a crime. And I fear that behind this obsession you are hiding, among other things, a peculiar misogynism, since you do not take into account the difficulties faced by women in the workplace at all, but also within the family itself, and above all ignore the obsolete nature of many abuses at the expense of women. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And despite the fact that, Mr. Chiara, I have nothing with you, I will say it. There was also a misogynism about your reference to your two parliamentary colleagues, New Democracy. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] You can contradict their arguments politically, disagree. Not to talk about supposedly experiential experiences that lead them to these political conclusions. It was your fault. In conclusion, your bill is not progress. Your bill is anachronism and it's dangerous for the child mainly, but it's also for the modern family. If something should be discussed today, it is how we are going to make more efficiently adapted to the real needs the tools that the judge has in his hands, when in each particular case he seeks the interests of the children. When, ladies and gentlemen, you reward - contrary to the judge at Breech's 'Chalk Cycle' - the parent who violently draws the child, instead of the one who leaves it in order not to hurt it, there is something devastated in your logic, intentions and motives, gentlemen of the government and Mr Mitsotakis, I will say, although the Prime Minister is absent in the Chamber. Bad lies. Mr Tsiaras is simply carrying out the debts of'shoulders'. It is a personal insistence and commitment of Mr Mitsotakis to strong minority groups. That's the truth. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] The least I would expect today is that the political courage not to hide and come to this step in the Chamber, to defend its decisions, to take political responsibility. Otherwise, you should radically amend the law, Mr Chiara, as Members of all the parties are asking. In any case, we will do that when the Greek people give us the mandate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u57	Before the President of Mera25 took the floor, he asked for the floor on a point raised by Mr Tsipras, the President of Parliament, Mr Tassoulas. Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u58	Ladies and gentlemen, it is not easy to manage parliaments at a pandemic time. None of us were prepared for such management, with me first. But while I was not prepared for it, my aim was not to prove myself inappropriate. Nor did I aspire to command the House, after your honorary vote of the summer of 2019, cooperating with the doctors of the Parliament and not with the Directors of Parliamentary Control, Legislative Work and all other addresses. It is not common, but the need has been made. Within Parliament since the beginning of September, seven people were infected by COVID -19 or were positive to the coronary. March presents the highest number of cases. We had twenty-six cases in March, twenty-two in April and fourteen in May, when there has been an increase in the physical presence of the officials in the House. These cases concern MPs, officials, police officers, prisoners, associates, who have come to know the Health Service. So the actual number may be slightly larger. I did not aspire to read such reports when, with the honorable, almost unanimous vote, I took over the presidency of the House. I did not aspire to handle the prevalence of the coronary in Parliament, the issues of rapid-test, self-test, or molecular tests in Parliament, nor did I intend to see you at the time when I am talking to you either myself and to see a masked parliament. Nor did I intend to speak after they fired the space from the previous speaker. I am sure none of you or none of you expected that. Ladies and gentlemen, let me say, with all due respect to all and all, and obviously to the former Chief of Police Response and former Prime Minister, that all these are not matters of democracy, these are issues of self-protectiveness, for example, they are issues of struggling effort to get through this demonic situation as unstoppable as possible to the definitive - with some reservation of 'definite', because we will never be inconsistent with the health sector - exit from the crisis. And to God, I do not understand that the House in the midst of Athens, in the middle of Attica, in the middle of Central Greece, in the middle of Greece, in Europe, in the world, can be an oasis of different and functional and fate than is happening around us. So all these measures we have taken are self-protection measures and, for example, they have attributed, because none of the cases that we had in this House came endogenously, came either familyly or socially. And these measures, if you've noticed, a week ago, maybe more, they've been relaxed. This bill is being discussed in two days' time, because we said by decision of the Conference of Presidents that those who wish to join and sign it around the seventies should be registered. Two days were spent for the seventies. If three hundred had been written, it would have been five days for the bill. The other solution, being all three hundred present to finish in one day, is a health bomb, is a suicide, is an example that is appalling to everyone. And we have said that this opening that we are doing with the extension of the time to examine the bills will soon be accompanied by an increase in the number of Members present in the Chamber. "On the basis of all the above," the Health Service tells me in yesterday's document, "and bearing in mind the relevant literature, which is constantly updated and instructions from the EGE and the relevant European agencies and the World Health Organisation, we propose that the maximum number of people in plenary should be presently reassessed in one or a maximum of two weeks and that it should be amended on the basis of the new data". On the basis of the new data, not of democracy, but of the situation we are facing. What is the situation we are facing? The prevalence of the new krone in the general population of Greece is still remarkable and currently presents a tendency only to level the curve and not to make a significant reduction.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u59	Please! Do not interrupt the President of Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u60	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u61	Please, be quiet! Mr. Famelle, don't give tests and you're the most vibrant.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u62	This situation is being called upon and I'm being called upon to manage. And, believe me, I will manage it to the end based on the protection of your health, the protection of your life, which is one of the first goods of democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u63	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u64	Please! Mr. Santorinier, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u65	Also, I want to tell you something. I am not on the political side. Mr Tsipras gave a great deal of responsibility to Mr Mitsotakis, but it is not Mr Mitsotakis' responsibility. I am responsible for this function of the House and not Mr Mitsotakis. And we manage the functioning of the House every week - a step with anguish at the Conference of Presidents. The House has already opened up. The House is slowly opening up, but it opens up carefully, opens up in the health situation and there is no way of doing anything else. And you do not, because as far as I can see today, there is one third of your group and not all eighty-six members of the SYRIZA. That's how we're gonna move from now on. And you can be sure that, with the right example, the House will soon be able to operate in a much greater presence. Finally, with regard to vaccination, I would like to say this. The Members of Parliament have not entered any country, including Europe and other continents, in priority over other people's accusations. No one. Priority has been given to vulnerable groups, old people. We have reached a high point of Members' vaccination without breaking any priorities. The MPs were vaccinated as citizens. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And we've reached a high site of vaccination, which in June will be even higher. The House will therefore continue to operate as the health rules impose, because this requires our democratic debt.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u66	The president of SYRIZA, Mr. Tsipras, will take the floor for a while.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u67	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the coronary vaccine, a vaccine against hypocrisy would also be useful. Because what is being done here today is obviously hypocrisy. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] It is your thing that the coronary is to maintain a suppression of the parliamentary procedure. And I am sorry about that, Mr President. You referred to health conditions in the prevalence of the virus. Do you think we're concerned about this? What are the government's decisions? The government's decisions were to make Lockdown with two hundred cases and open everything with three thousand cases, everything except Parliament. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] If your concern was the prevalence of the virus, you wouldn't remove the lockdown only so that the tourists can come, unless we bring tourists to the House too, let's make regular procedures. That's the only way we'd have regular procedures. And I come to the core of hypocrisy. Mr President, even if your argument that the simultaneous presence of the three hundred Members in a closed room can be healthyly problematic, which I can accept, is the gradual presence of Members in order to vote for themselves in roll-call votes is a health bomb? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Is the Member's ability, which I ask you for six months now, as he speaks with Webex, to vote with Webex in the roll-call vote procedure is a health bomb? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] The fourteen questions we tabled and have not been debated have not been debated why is the debate a health bomb? The prior order of business I have asked for six months and you do not put it in the process, do you not because it's a health bomb? Obviously not. Your will, therefore, is to make use of a very difficult treaty for all of us as an opportunity to curtail parliamentary procedures and democratic operation itself. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And that, Mr President, will be a stigma for the Mitsotakis Government and to the extent that you have rushed to take full responsibility, I am sorry and I fear it will be a stigma for you too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u68	Thank you. On behalf of the Government, the Minister for Justice has asked for a brief intervention. Immediately after the speech, the President of Mera25 Mr Varoufakis will be given. Here, Minister, you have the floor not for your speech, but for a very brief speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u69	Yes, Mr President, for a very short time, to respond to some of the issues that have been raised.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u70	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u71	Wait a minute, Minister. Mr. Scandalides, after Mr. Varoufakis, you will take the floor. The same applies to any other parliamentary representative who so requests. Here, Minister, you have the floor and I would ask you to do so as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u72	I did not expect, ladies and gentlemen, the Chief of Officership to remain. It's kind of known that after his speech, he's leaving, because he doesn't want to hear anything from there. And the truth is, I understand him. To come here today by raising issues that we know are about the general health crisis and we know that this very special management is needed, so that there are no issues relating to public health, it is obviously dictated by what has been happening over the last few years and is probably the top of the political scene. And I cannot avoid saying that the difficulty in which the party of the Officerial Response finds itself with what we are hearing these days in the Committee of Inquiry I understand that it also justifies the way it is here today in order to raise a number of issues, because it would obviously not be possible for the Chief of Staff to speak in any way. I totally understand that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u73	Where do you hear that?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u74	On the question of the functioning of the House, I think that the questions have been raised very specifically by the President of Parliament, the answers have been given.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u75	Are you a member of the pre-inquiry?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u76	Mr. Ragossi, I'll see you later.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u77	Mr. Ragosi, please don't interrupt. When you ask for the floor, you'll take him.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u78	I realize there's a difficulty, I understand. When you hear what is said about SYRIZA's period of rule, who was where, who did what, who was in front of who, I understand it creates a great difficulty for you. I get it. Don't insist. You don't have to. There's no such reason. But the question is, ladies and gentlemen, that the functioning of this House, such as basically all our social life and our social activity, has been brought into some rules with a single objective. To whom, really, does living under such conditions seem to be really ideal or what one wants, anyway? At least people who have some knowledge of what it means to safeguard public health are not at the Step of the House with arguments of populism to create another impression and another picture. The Greek citizens who are watching us think we are being judged of all that is being heard. I will respond to two - three issues relating to the bill. I was impressed by the position of Chief of Staff. Indeed, I would say that it was and almost contrary to what the majority of SYRIZA Members admitted, regardless of whether they criticised the bill. He didn't even recognize that there was a problem. For the Chief of Officer County, we are not coming to deal with a social problem, we are just coming to create an extra parliamentary fuss. I'm sorry. I'm really sorry. If it does not affect at least you, I mean the majority of SYRIZA colleagues who have been at this step, who have said that they refuse the bill, but have acknowledged that there is a problem that needs to be solved, it is certain that it offends thousands of people who are waiting for the current government, from the Greek political scene to give a solution to a problem of decades. It's really a shame. It is really a pity that a man who has been Prime Minister should come here and who has indirectly recognised the problem. Do you know how he recognized it, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA? He recognized it when you did a nomadic committee to deal with it. Why didn't you really deal with it? Where was your conclusion of the 2016 Legislative Committee? What drawer? Do you know why you didn't do it? Because sensitive social issues require, in principle, a great social intensity and you wanted to avoid it in the well-known tactics that you have adopted throughout your previous government period, baptizing meat - fish and doing anything that might not bring you up against any social tension. Do you want to ask the former SYRIZA Justice Ministers what they had their opinion on this matter? Really, if this isn't the greatest hypocrisy, tell me where the hypocrisy lies? To come here today and say that we do not exist - because this is what we heard from the Chief of Police Response - when you yourself tried to solve it in a previous period, but you did not have the boldness, you did not have the courage to go ahead with it, you realise that it makes you unthinkably exposed to Greek society. I know very well from the first moment when we saw this particular problem that it is a very sensitive issue, that it can create many social tensions. That is why I have essentially asked for the agreement and agreement of the parties. It is a real pity that a great, historic opportunity to agree on an issue that could help us to send a firm message to Greek society, unfortunately this opportunity has been lost. And that, obviously, at least the rapporteurs of the parties know that. In no case is it my responsibility and it is not the government's responsibility. There have been inaccuracies that we have not, in fact, ensured the implementation of the Istanbul Treaty. What else do you want to say? Even with the latest legislative intervention, in addition to the flagship reference, in all the articles in question, the reference to the Istanbul Treaty, the last window, which one could see and always after the establishment of the Scientific Committee of the Parliament, which we have arranged to close, was about the fact that even in mediation, when there is such a question, we are not talking from there.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u79	Minister, please, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u80	Two minutes, Mr President, and I shall conclude. Beyond all this, however, it was nicely concealed by the Chief of Staff, it is assumed, behind a phrase that has been heard in general, that there are great interests and that is why we are bringing this legislative proposal here. Really, ladies and gentlemen? Can you believe that? You think this debate is taking place because they want it by one or two people who may represent great interests. Is that really what you think? Do you have any idea who most of those affected? Although the reality is that we are talking about the best interests of the child, we are not talking about the interests of parents. But the truth is, if we talk about parents, don't you know who they are? They're poor people. They're fighters. They are people who fight every day in life and want to support their children, want to see them, want to communicate with them. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Is that what you think? Get out and say it publicly! If that's your conviction, I'm really sorry. I am making one final comment and I will come back to the bill, Mr President. I heard the former Prime Minister name me on a specific condition. I'm returning this characterization to him. I say this because, personally, on all my political path, which may be a little longer than the former Prime Minister, I have never done anything that I did. I, ladies and gentlemen, propose to the National Representation this draft law because I believe it exactly. Because I believe it is a brave reformist step, because I believe it will give a solution to a great problem that concerns many people in Greek society.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u81	And that's what you're closing down with, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u82	Because I believe that this will support the child's real interests. Because I think that apart from what each of us here can confront or argue in the logic of political controversy, we should at some point also see something that is real and has nothing to do with ideological or political position. It's a pity, really - I'm sorry! - and for the Chief of Officership, but also for all of you who adopt such a attitude and such a tactic against an issue that should unite us.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Minister. After I apologize to him, I call on Mr Varoufakis to take the floor in Stepma. After Mr Varoufakis, the floor will be given by Mr Pafilis, who has not spoken at all as a Parliamentary representative, and by those who have asked, in turn, of the power of the parties. That will be the process. Mr President, you have the floor. I apologise, but in these cases there are procedures that run away from time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u84	Members, Mr President, when will they speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u85	Look, when your leaders talk, it's an insult. They'll talk later.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u86	What order?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u87	Here we go. I've been sitting here since 10:00, and I'm not leaving, just like you. Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been sixteen years since I first saw how conscientiousness can make a difference, how it can alleviate pain in the process of divorce, separation, support parents so that parents can support children. In 2005 - and you will allow me to speak on personal grounds, because the staff are political, as the feminists of the 1970s taught us - it was a period when my daughter, 15 months later, has, with her mother, been acknowledging Australia. At that time I had met a couple who did the conscientiousness, of course. He was a rich couple, who was walking the path the difficult partition, with the pain that that means. But they were lucky because they had the potential. They had two houses near each other and one parent and the other could offer bedrooms to their two children and the school was close. I have to tell you that I really envyd them too, too. Comparison with what I experienced at the time was overwhelming. I've just been reconciled with the idea that I'm sure it crushes so many fathers out there - that we need to learn to live without our child. Although my case, of course, was extreme, because my daughter couldn't have gone farther. If he kept going, he'd come back. I have no doubt that that pain, that desperation is something that thousands of people live out there. From this, then, the Stepma, the House, I look into your eyes the fathers who, too, were forced to drink the poison of this reconciliation with the inhuman idea that you could not live with your children. And I'm telling you that, from personal experience, I know the pain of being in the car parked outside and not being able to see the child. I know the anger that is fading into you in the thought that may be true or not be true - that someone or someone is using the child against you, the injustice of telling you that it is in the best interests of the child not to grow up with you. I know the sadness of having to systematically retreat to things that you think it's essential, so that the child doesn't get caught in crossfire again, the helplessness of learning to your child things that you know and that you think he should know, but that you can't let him know on a weekend in the holidays that you're together and the feeling that big decisions are made behind your back. I remember the suffocation the thought caused by the thought that if I went to court, to ask for the custody of the child or the conscientiousness, I would lose. I'll be honest with you. If I had a button to press it to have my daughter 100% of the time with me, I'd hit it. If I had another button that gave me 50% of the time, I'd hit it. If I had a button that gave it to me for a third of a year, I'd hit it without second thought. But, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to see what I want and what I want the state to do or not be able to do in my name. I remember a conversation when we lived in Texas, in the state champion at the executions, with someone who was the champion of the death penalty and said, "Well, if your daughter or your wife were raped and killed, wouldn't you want to kill the killer, the rapist?" And without thinking about it, I say: 'I would drown him with my hands.' But I immediately added: 'but I would not like to live in an organised society that allows me, I did not want to live in an organised society that kills him on my behalf'. The same is true of conscientiousness. Yeah, I wanted it for myself, like so many others want it. But if it is not possible to agree consensually, no, I do not want the organised society to impose it for me. I would never like a state to legislate what I would like to do on my anger and despair. Another wish, Mr Minister, is that this wish be imposed through violence, by private or state. The most beautiful things when imposed are transformed into monstrous tricks. Take love, love. When he comes home, there's no more beautiful thing in the world. But when forced, rape occurs. This is true with the conspiracy of the children after a breakup. If consensually, conscientiousness is an oasis to the misery of separation. But if conscientiously imposed by the state, it turns into a cradle, it turns into a oxymobile with a child victim. I say this again: I wanted conscientiously, but at the same time I understood with pain and perhaps with anger, I do not hide it, that I had no right as a father. My daughter only had my rights. Consistency is equal to cooperation and cooperation, ladies and gentlemen, it is not enforced by law. Happy work is for the child to have two equal houses. To pass, as I said in the previous example I gave you, a week with one parent and one week with the other parent. And when she grows up - not too big, twelve or thirteen, this is my personal view - to choose alone or alone in the weeks and hours she spends with one parent or another parent. Yes, but this presupposes things that no legislator, no judge, no state minister can impose or even oversee: houses that are close, so that the child can go to the same school. Parents’ financial capacity to provide each parent with similar conditions at home that are close to or close to each other. Living and working conditions that give parents privileges to be able to lift their weight, their responsibility went - come one week and one week, the other or three weeks, each. I want to come to fear of the so-called and referring to your bill of alienation of the child from the divorced father. I don't hide it that I had that fear. When I saw my daughter leave, especially so far away, I had that fear. Fortunately, it has proved, as is the case, that this fear has always been foolish. Children, ladies and gentlemen, are not alienated from parents who love them, no matter how much time they spend with them. [[Applause from the Wing of Mera25]] [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] My daughter Xenia was seventeen years old. Seventeen years of distance, seventeen years. I remember from a young child before you listened to "SKYPE", I read her fairy tales from "SKYPE" and watched her sleep on the screen from 2005. I do not hide from you that it was very difficult to keep communication, especially when it was growing. Three - four times a year, you know what that means, from distance, costs, tiredness. We did it. To say, the time of the pandemic is too hard for us. Because this is the first time that for over a year we haven't been found and we don't know when we'll be back. Australia's borders are closed until mid-2022 according to the country's Prime Minister. But I have to tell you that, however, we are closer, more tied up than we would be if we lived together. With losses, of course. There is no day in these seventeen years, when we are not together, which is not labeled 'another day apart'. We counted the days to meet, and when we were together, we counted the days to the breakup. Ladies and gentlemen, this is more the fear of alienation, more the false theory of Daddy's alienation. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the government, when there is no consensual way to conscientiousness, there must be family courts, with specialised judges, away from the EPP, away from the contractual courts, in areas specially designed, with psychologists, with social workers, so as to maximise the possibility of consent or a diligence of children who are in their interests, on the basis of a fundamental and unique criterion for protecting their rights. Instead of these expensive family courts, you are changing the law, the 1983 family law, which is still an example to date of imitation, a monument of progressive legitimisation and a good reason. I would like to pay tribute to the women's organizations who worked hard during the 1970s to make the 1983 family law a reality. I shall refer to the Federation of Women of Greece, the Movement of Democratic Women, the Association of Women of Greece and especially Margarita Papandreou - which deserves a mention, because I know personally the work he has done on this - and the independent, autonomous movements of women in the way in which the entire political system has moved forward, not you. You've never been part of it. You've always been part of the killing of the right. Proof that in 1983 that excellent piece of legislation voted against even backing the dowry! [[Applause from the Wing of Mera25]] Don't forget that, who you are. Have a sense of crime, of guilt. So this piece of legislation, the progressive of a Magakis, a Margakopoulou, a Manesi, a Cassimatis, who at the time had voted against, today you come to change it. Mr Minister, you have raised the question and that is right: there are no problems? Of course there are infinite. But that's not the problem with the law. The problems are with the application of the law, they are with judicial practice and procedure. But what do you choose to do? You choose not to deal with these infinite problems. On the contrary, you choose to create news with this disgraceful bill, which consciously turns a beautiful wish into a bad state enforcement. In this you remind the extremist Protestant American abortion wars. The great paradox in the case of these gentlemen and gentlemen is the following. The same people who favor the right of the foetus in life, even when it is a product of rape, resist all that can ease the life of a child born in a non-preferential family, whether this is free education whether it is free health or a decent wage at the workplace, when it will grow and work. So do you. Same paradox. The same ones who are successful in conscientiousness are not interested in the creation and service of the family courts that maximise the chances of substantial conscience. I'm coming back looking at the camera, 'cause I want to look into the eyes of the divorced dads. Let me tell you this. Our pain as divorced dads is unbearable, I know. But badly lies - and I address the divorced dads again - we males are paying the price of living in a deeply sexist patriarchal society, which most men refuse to understand. Feminism is not about the woman and her emancipation. Feminism is about abolishing a power system, of which men are victims, particularly sensitive men. The solution, therefore, is not to go along with the new anti-feminism of the Mitsotakis Government. The solution is to build a state that supports the finding of consensual solutions, not one that implements the revansism of the patriarchy that, as we have seen, as Mrs Giannakou and her honour, has retired deep wallets, deep oligarchal wallets for the promotion of your bill, Mr Tsiara, regardless of whether you believe it. I believe you believe it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u89	Can you believe it?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u90	I'm sure you believe your bill, but the wallets are deep, we see it at the bus stops, Minister! The solution for us, for Mera25, is the new feminism that governs our party. The new feminism, which continues in the steps of the earlier feminist female movement in the 1970s, which gave birth to family law in 1983. A new anti-feminism today will be intensified by your own bill, Mr. Chiara. In conclusion, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should not remind the House that the laws are not written for good and good. They are not written for people, for citizens who will do well, and so they will not have to go to court. Family law is written for divorced couples who cannot agree with each other. It is even written about couples who can't find it, because they have a survival problem, both personal and psychological, and of course also economic. The conspiracy, which is sacred and may have existed, may it have been in all the divorced couples, and I say it with all my soul, requires good cooperation. It requires consultation. But cooperation and understanding cannot be imposed either by legislators or by judges. Co-operation and cooperation with public institutions that you do not want to establish are cultivated. The establishment of these public institutions is against your DNA. Let me remind you of something, although I don't have to remind you, I'm sure you remember it, but it matters, that in his novel "Anna Karenina" Leon Tolstoy started by saying that all happy families look like one another, but all unhappy families are unhappy each one in its own way. So with divorced couples who fail to cooperate. They create different forms of misery for their children, which the state has an obligation to treat each other differently, without imposing ad hoc restrictions on judges. Your bill comes to deepen the misfortune of unhappy couples and of course of their children, just to satisfy the revansism of the Right against the 1983 emblematic family law, which you fought ravaged at the time, you are fighting it ravaged today. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the government, today you are writing another black page in the memoirs of your black and spooky story, without even worrying that the cost of re-engineering and misogy will pay innocent souls for it. Good night, Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u91	Parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party of Greece, Thanasis Pafilis, has the floor now. The Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Athanasios, will be followed by the Vice-President of Parliament, and then we will go to the list of speakers with Mr Muzala and Mrs Jakri. You have the floor, Mr. Paphie.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u92	I will avoid, at least at the beginning, commenting on the controversy that exists, but then we will give our own angle and perspective. The first question is whether changes in family law are needed in terms of parental and child relations. Everyone's answering what they need. I don't have time to explain why, but I need to. Society's evolving. Unfortunately, the situation is worse than the previous one with the responsibility of all the parties that have governed, and therefore on the basis of this reality and of the problems that come out, some changes are needed. We undoubtedly support the joint exercise of parental responsibility for the needs and interests of the child, but not cut off from parents. Aleka Papariga said it, I don't want to repeat it. We agree that there is an obligation on both parents toward children, to inside marriages, to those outside or to those who have made a cohabitation agreement. Of course, decisions on all serious issues must be taken together. And, of course, the child, who dwells mainly on one parent, should have as broad communication as possible with the other. I made a little comment. Mr. Varoufakis is gone too. How nice is when you have 20,000 wages a month and you can make sure the houses are next door.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u93	You're going.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u94	Your turn will be here. Don't be happy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u95	I'm not happy, but it makes sense.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u96	The joint responsibility of both parents therefore presupposes that parents are prepared to circumvent their differences and cooperate harmoniously. We could say many other wishes, because this is a very nice wish. And I'll explain why. But can we cut out the complex social issues and sensitive, such as this, from the characteristics of the existing socio-economic system from the complex of social and economic relations between capitalist society? We say 'no'. And whoever does it is making fun of the world. We live in this system. The other parties don't talk until now. No one said the word 'capitalism' and did not talk about how values and a number of things it cultivates. We say, then, that the level of development of social consciousness and the level of the relationship between couples when they are at marriage, but also when they go through divorce, is crucial. Let me just say it. And what are the consequences of operating the system itself? Is it, or isn't it, atomism? Ask and let the others die. This is not only true of the economy or of the school alone, for example, it also applies to the life of couples. It's self-centered, my interest. It is the competition, which is the word - key to all of you so far, regardless of what some have said before. Mr. Plori, the child's personality is not shaped by the family. It's made by the family, too. Mostly, however, it is shaped by the social environment. And if you want, you have a thousand examples. This is a trick of system defenders who carry all responsibilities to this family. But what family do they carry all responsibilities to? Is the family - what I said before - of the plutocrats and of the working people's strata? Do both have the same possibilities? It's a tough class society. Therefore, we, the Communist Party of Greece, are talking about working people and not about selebrits and money tycoons, who are overrepresented by the media, while the struggles of this people producing wealth are buried, with a choice, of course, because we know who has these channels. It is another thing to be faced with unemployment, with the work relationships that you have all created, both PASOK and SYRIZA and the New Democracy now that it is literally taking off. And you don't talk about it. What do you say now when there are hunger wages? A family with 1,000 euros a month, what's he dealing with? This is the majority of the people. The majority of the people have neither five nor ten or twenty million to deal with such issues. Because the problems of others are her claims from the 5 million or 10 million tide, which is a chaos that creates a virtual reality in the world "live your myth", as is most of the sirials, which no one has a job problem, has an unemployment problem and has swimming pool villas and all day long do nothing but deal with his personal issues. So let's come back. We're interested in this bill, too. Of course, there are exceptions. You can't say it all. The others can solve them in another way. You serve them, anyway. To come to the bill. Question: can these serious, critical and sensitive issues of parental care be addressed only by legislation, without measures, infrastructures and institutional state support, or even by pandemic, are individual responsibility issues? Because that's all history and philosophy. We believe that legislative intervention is not enough. We condemn and call on the workers to do the same, that is to say, to claim the state's obligation to contribute to the economic and social support of the working people's family. Repeat: Free support, because in Britain there are such things, but you pay your head's hair. And who today of the working folk families can pay psychologists and others in view of the economic situation there is? We say, therefore, that there must be support from the outset, but also during the marriage to raise the child. And you're talking about his child and his rights. A little friendly. What rights are we talking about? Let's see who she is. Cheers. Is there free and public? Oh, no. Education. Is there free and public? If you don't go to school for English and more, can you learn anything? Oh, no. Sports? Wherever you go and write, you pay. How do all this work, which are the rights of the child modern and how can they be covered? They create an explosive situation in the family itself, bleeding, anxiety. When there is no social protection network for children, do you dare and speak about the rights of the child? Where's the kids taking them? Do you feel like the people's world lives? Who's going to get it? Who will go and given the situation that exists, especially in the large cities? Who's gonna keep them? They will be alone five, six years old, because their parents do not have time with their jobs and with the economic tolerance they cannot take a woman to keep them or women to keep them, while the others may have ten governes, from housekeeper to housekeeper, I don't know what inside the house. So the rights of the child and ensuring the modern needs of what are they? Just the divorce, and then we're talking? What have all governments done for all these things? Nothing. Follow the barbarism of capitalism and I will say a few things below. This concerns, we say, the couples who are married and much more - I say about these infrastructures that must exist - and divorced ones. And let's say one more thing. Your policy is deeply classic. Society capitalist is divided into two classes dominating, those producing wealth, which are over 60% - 70% and those stealing it. So we cannot talk in general and abstract terms about the problems of divorces as well as about courts or anything else and I will analyse them. As far as industrial relations are concerned, what are you talking about? Just tell us about two parents who are divorced -- first to say live together and have children -- the tenth hour you bring in. And the way you've opened it, you guys of SYRIZA, and don't talk. Dozens of hours for doctors. Yes or no? Before PASOK started. Nine hours on railroads. Yes or no? Negotiations for an eight-hour increase. Now where have you focused the difference? That we were talking about the union collectives. And if the union is an employer, does it obligate them to work for them, yes or no? So tell us how a couple will grow up and later solve the problems of conscientiousness with an hour you don't get to figure out? And if the working hours are ten hours, the worker does not fix it, he defines it as an employer, because if he doesn't need it, he will say to him: 'Go away'. If he needs it, however, he doesn't go to see his two and three children, he'll say to him: 'You're not going anywhere.' With these working relationships, there's gonna be hell. And it's not just the bill, it's the overall policy that the other parties avoid harming. And make one more comment. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Two minutes, Mr. President. Mr Kotsiras - he is missing - spoke about the rights of the child, international conventions, etc. We have no doubt said that everything that is positive should be incorporated. But tell us, ladies and gentlemen, are the Palestinian children, like, hundreds of people killed, having rights? Why don't you talk? Achna! The right to self-defense? Really, the children five years old? She was killed last night with a two-year-old child! Is that a terrorist? Is it threatening Israel, the slayer of the region, the spearhead of imperialism, your strategic ally, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, first of all - why did you say you were left - and all the others? Don't they have rights? Tell us about it. Tell us about the minor work done by the European Union and your governments. Tell us about the children of thirteen, twelve, nine, ten years old in the mines in Africa, who work from morning to night and die, what is the European Union doing? Who's doing this? Multiethnics who exploit child labour. Aren't those children's rights? Who is she? Only in the divorce? Not to say too much more. We therefore say that in order to support the people's families, it needs the creation of a single state network of social services, which will provide - I repeat, the repetition is a mother of learning - the following: Firstly, free social prevention services, family planning, sexual education, family treatment programs, the couple - I mean, in order to be better informed - services staffed with appropriate scientific staff, psychologists, social workers, teachers and others, who will monitor families during married life, but much more will help during divorce. And here, excuse me, but who ruled this place? Because some go out now and ask for social infrastructure. It was you, wasn't it? You guys at PASOK, why didn't you do them? SYRIZA why he didn't do anything, he made a lawmaker and buried it? Why? In this area at least. Tell us a meter. None. There were no social infrastructures. Secondly, the creation of family courts, in the essential sense. The judges - and you know it better for those of you and fighters - have legal competence. Is that enough? Oh, no. What should be done? Seminars? But that's not what's happening. This service of family courts and similar scientists, psychologists, social workers, child psychiatrists - you know them, not to say them again - is public and free of charge. We reject mediation. It is, firstly, privatization, secondly, cost - whoever has money, can do better - and thirdly, trade and dirt under the table that is being done, and that is experience from America too. But that's enough, too? In our opinion, no. It needs financial support, protective measures, financial support to the couple. We have made proposals that we are talking about financial support, without preconditions, to all without conditions, protection of people's housing, relief from debts, financial support for divorced parents. We have also made amendments, that is to say, the possibility of parenting, etc. We have other proposals - I do not want to repeat them, because I have spent too much time - which we have said in detail. In these proposals, why doesn't any of you have any position in the parties? Just because you didn't do anything and you don't agree. Because in capitalism your value - to say this - is profit, it is investment, billions you all give to those who make investments and, of course, all the rest of it is cost. It's the philosophy of the capitalist system itself. We have another philosophy: Center is human and human needs and the wealth produced belongs to producers. And society today has such potential that it can face beyond the economic and other problems and problems that always exist. But, at least in this area, but also in the area of education, it can deal with them. That's what no one's talking about. Don't you see? Everything's in the gambling of profit. This is where millions of people die, and the multinationals are fighting, and then you tell us who will sell more, they're blackmailing, to talk about the pandemic. We therefore say that most of these can and will be resolved only in socialism and on a path, because it is difficult to eliminate education within capitalism for many years and we will resolve them, because we also take into account positive and negative experiences. In this area too, despite the problems and difficulties, the Soviet Union and the socialist countries had large-scaled. Now it'll be better.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u97	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u98	Yes, I see you, Mr. Scandalidis. I had announced Mr Athanasios, the Vice-President, after Mr Pafili, because he wants to go to the Conference of Presidents. Mr Scandalidis, I also know from the previous President-in-Office that you have asked for an intervention. If you agree, we should give Mr Athanasios the floor so that he can then go to the conference.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u99	I have asked for the floor earlier, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u100	If you insist, I give you the floor, there is no question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u101	I'll be five minutes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u102	But there's no problem. I can explain to you, from there on, it is a matter of your own understanding or consent, as you say. Here, you have the floor for five minutes, as I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u103	Five minutes, Mr President, Mr Scandalides wants a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u104	I have asked for the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u105	Well, Mr Ragosi, now, let us give the floor to the Vice-President. All right, respect it! It is a request from the Bureau to make it easier for the Vice-President to go to the Conference of Presidents, as we make it easier for colleagues to go to committees. Here, Mr. Scandalides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u106	I really want to make it easier for him, but we're getting away from it. Thank you very much, Mr President. I asked for the floor immediately after Mr Tsipras and the Minister, but justified leaders were inserted, because I wanted to place myself on the stage that we once again lived in Parliament. I think we've come back to the same work of viewers in a gladiatorial controversy. The Chief of Staff Response raised an important issue that we have repeatedly and intensively put on almost daily basis - both the President of the Change Movement and I in every political position - the big issue of democracy that the country is experiencing, which is wider and maximum and how this is reflected and works in the functioning of Parliament. The government, in fact, ladies and gentlemen, acts miserablely. He exploits the juncture, brings gonatograms, shows a string of critical bills that are discussed in a few hours and days. In general, it has a tactic to go through any issue relating to its basic choices, without any real discussion and without any real co-formulation by the parties on the basis of the functioning of the national Parliament. There is indeed a great deal of degrading Parliament with the practice of government and central government. Unfortunately, this is one side of the coin, because there is also the other side of the coin, which is the struggling of parliamentary procedures, as harmful to the progress of institutions and democracy. When, ladies and gentlemen, the subject of the letter of vote was raised in Parliament in the roll-call votes, the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group made a decision through its regulated procedures to abstain from voting. It is justifiable in the judgment of the resistance decision to the misfunction of Parliament. It's her right. Today, however, it is threatening to abstain from the roll-call vote which the group itself has provoked on the grounds that the House will not overturn its original decision, namely that there should be a self-representative presence. I hope that your threat will not be implemented, because it will be an act that pours out the parliamentary procedure and offends the national Parliament, which you claim you want to upgrade. I would also like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, to think again and not to do so, because we will expect to see how much you will actually support the justified sensitivity you have in the interests of the child and for this matter that we are discussing today and which is a critical and equal level of democracy - not an equal level of democracy as a whole, but a equally crucial issue - and for the future generations and the smooth functioning of our social life. I repeat, before you do, think again. As far as our position is concerned, in substance, and in order to avoid any misunderstanding, we are voting against, as we all gladly and fervently referred to, first and foremost, Articles 7 and 13 of the proposal for a roll-call vote. However, I would like to tell you that we refuse to participate and to participate in a deed that annulsss any concept of parliamentary procedure, because it will literally be a crook who offends Parliament and its functioning.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, Mr. Scandalides. Mr Ragosi, have you asked for the floor for an intervention?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u108	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u109	I too, Mr President, want the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u110	Mr. Flouris, can I note that you will take the floor after Mr. Ragosi?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u111	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u112	Here, Mr Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, Mr President, and Mr Ragosi for his understanding. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill suggests the introduction of the principle of mutual parental care - conscientiousness is the term which prevailed in social dialogue - after the dimension of spouses or divorce. This appears to be legally correct, since one parent cannot be excluded from taking decisions on the life of his child, but also as necessary to adapt our law to modern legislative developments, since conscientiousness as a legal system has been applicable in other European law for several years. In particular, the bill respects the basic principles, concepts and choices of family law, such as (a) the principle that a dominant criterion in relation to relations between parents and children is the interests of the child. Let's not forget that our family law is pediatric. (b) the nature of family rights as functional rights. It tries to limit the intrinsic problems of conscientiousness by limiting in a reasonable context the issues on which a joint decision by parents is required. It gives wide powers to the court without time or other limitations. It seeks to prevent the burden of the judicial system in the following ways: by encouraging the autonomous regulation of parental care, namely by agreeing between parents, by promoting mediation as an alternative way of resolving family disputes, by providing supportive subsystems, a series of provisions specialising positively or negatively in the obligations of parents and, indirectly or directly, the threat of consequences compelling them to comply with those obligations. It provides as a form of conscientiousness the alternating residence of the child with each of his parents as conditional. Finally, it establishes the case to be dealt with by specialised judicial officers. There are, of course, sections of family law in the large courts, but we do not have what we call a "family court" with specialized judges. Minister, I referred to the positive interventions which are being put forward by the bill, which were, moreover, necessary after forty years of its operation to the same law. I would now like to make a few remarks which I think will help to improve the functioning of the legislation if the relevant legislative improvements are made. Article 5 of the draft law, which replaces Article 1511 AK, provides that the interest of the child is to be determined as being served by the effective involvement of both parents, the raising and care of each one and also by the prevention of break-up of relationships with each of them. The legislator, in other words, hierarchies the criteria for diagnosing the child's interests by proposing and stressing some of them, strengthening them against other criteria, without even being able to say whether the dependency or hierarchy is one of the most important ones, because there are other rights, such as the child's upbringing or the parent's ability to spend more time on it, the choice of the environment and others. Moreover, that hierarchy removes some of the power of the lawmaker to make the assessment and weighting in the light of the specific circumstances, which is in line with the logic of the vague legal concepts, and it is a choice for the legislature to be aware of the need for family relations to be regulated by vague legal concepts, the specialisation of which, according to the methodology of law, is freely made by the lawmaker on the basis of evaluator criteria of variable content. This makes it possible, on the one hand, to take account of developments in social habits and, on the other, to make the necessary adjustments to the needs of each case. Article 7, which replaces Article 1513 AK, provides that parental care is to be taken together and equally by the two parents. I think it was enough to 'joint' parental care, without 'equivalent', because this wording - and I say these - could be used for the problems that could arise - which do not exist in regulating the exercise of parental care in marriage cohabitation, to create misunderstandings and to be used to make the child's changing living at a time as imposed by law. But this solution, if I have been correctly informed, has not been announced by you, Minister. But I may have been wrong, of course, or it was an appreciation of you. If 'equivalent' means 'equivalently', I suggest that this last term should be used, which is not available for misinterpretations. Because 'equivalently' gives parents the value of participation, while at the same time, although this would be unnecessary, since other provisions ensure equality between parents. Therefore, 'equivalent' will create problems. In the second subparagraph, it is laid down that the parent with whom the child resides shall undertake the actions provided for in the first subparagraph of 1516, following prior information from the other parent. I think that the original wording of the committee, which proposed the verb 'decides' to the acts of 1516, was more successful, because the expression 'information of the other parent' would pave the way for parental relations and eviscerate disputes. Because it will in any case have to be informed and a problem will arise with possible recourse to justice. While the "decides" I think it is more practicable, in view of the fact that if there is a difference it could well be resolved by the court, which in this case could still be done and I fear it will cause legal problems. Just think about these two issues, 'equivalent' and 'equivalent'. I also think that the presumption of one third of the total year should not be retained in the provision of 1520 as regards the right of communication with the child. This is because, despite the awkward wording, since it is not meant to substantiate time, we could assume either that a rule is laid down that communication time should not be less than one third or that a presumption, a fightable presumption, if you like, of parental rights to enjoy communication with the child, extending to at least one third of the total time. However, in the light of the principle that any decision on the exercise of parental care must be aimed at the best interests of the child, we must assume that it is not a rule, but a provision which restricts that principle, in essence, the time that the child has an interest in communicating with a parent. In other words, the legislature is making a manifest mistrust with the judge, in particular, of the concept of the interest of the child, which in the original choice had been shaped as a vague legal concept. In addition, the concept of total time, given that it is time to communicate people, is quite clear. For example, an afternoon meeting of a parent who does not live with him as what will be charged, as a day’s communication or as a day’s fraction? Finally, I note that the consequence of the hierarchy of criteria and legislative interventions in the sense of interest, for example, in the presumption of 1/3 that strengthen the position of a class of parents, I fear that it will be the undermining of the consensus and mediation. I know very well that you also fight for the consensus spirit and for mediation that the bill promotes. It is expected that the one who has the advantage from the law and does not begin on an equal neutral basis with the other, will have no reason to make a consensual effort to resolve the communication time and bring it to the court. So I'm afraid we'll have legal disputes all the time. I considered it necessary, Minister, to make these remarks, and I hope that some of them will give you some thought and care - at least for the two of them I have said, they are not so essential - and they are more procedural in order not to have any legal problems, because I know very well the intentions and diligence you have and therefore it must not be felt that some of the above provisions have been adopted on the occasion - as has been said here, which is inappropriate and is not acceptable - not to serve one - and colleagues must understand that, but there are certain bad experiences that have experienced certain categories of parents, either because of unacceptable behaviour by the other parent or because of some misdemocratic judicial crises. And here we are for the legislator to correct them, because in the rule of law, like our country, he does not lose his sobriety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Mr. Athanasios. We will continue with the list of speakers. We invite Mr. Muzala from SYRIZA to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Mr President. Before going into the matter that we are going to discuss today, I should like to express my sympathy and anxiety to those affected by the fire in Corinthia, to express, together with all of you, our support for the Police and Fire Forces who are trying to deal with the situation. And speaking of fires, I would also like to inform the Members of Parliament and the Greek people that the finding of the questioning of fire in Eye acquiescences Mrs Duru and demonstrates through the responsibilities she gives the service actors who were then promoted, when you became a government, that rather all this anxiety you have shown was not about finding the truth, but a cannibalist attempt to demolished people, in order to step on bodies and people, to use it in opposition. Finally, I would like to inform the Members of the New Democracy who are missing from the Chamber that there is a serious inner-party problem in New Democracy. I do not know how you will deal with it, but the New Democracy MPs yesterday voted against the proposal in the European Parliament that was voted for the lifting of the patent, contradicting Mr Mitsotakis, who was also the one who led Mr Biden - on the basis of your narrative - in order to free the patents. But that's a matter of yours. We'll work it out. The bill now. I think that the main problem, as those opposed to the bill rightly pointed out, starts by the fact that a law progressive at that time with some gaps today, where the child was first child-centered - is turned into a genome. This in the present situation objectively serves patriarchy. Probably in some years later, in ten, twenty, a hundred, to serve something else. But at the moment it is objectively serving patriarchy. It is wrong, however, to transfer the opposition from a child-centered law against a genome in this feminine or male look around the problem. In the wrong perceptions, you bring a wrong bill that will catalyse Greek society and create a large number of problems. We usually know why you're bringing these bills. For example, we know that for education you brought the bill to serve the owners of private education and colleges. For your work, for your commitments to the Greek Industrial Association. For the bankruptcy code, for your opinion that zombies, small and medium-sized enterprises must die. For climate change because you are dreaming and serving the huge monopolistic interests and not basically the core of society that is small and medium-sized enterprises and ordinary people. Here's why you're doing this sincerely there's an empty one. Unless such a shoe has fallen into the legacy, which may be personal commitments, personal reasons or anything else, satisfying some of the personal interests. Who are these tenderly indignant dads who threaten judges, who threaten women, who hang banners in the abode of women and who you are trying to help? It's not innocent of your appreciation and the bill. She's not innocent because she's deliberately hiding. You say in the explanatory statement that you spoke with operators and operators are coming out and complain to you that you have never invited them to talk. You have not invited the judges, the prosecutors, the legal schools in which, on the basis of the bill, you limit the possibility of a personal crisis, by putting these horizontal measures. You didn't talk to the social workers. You haven't spoken to serious organizations in psychiatric science specialising in the child. You have not spoken with representatives of European institutions. You are bringing something that is contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights, the Convention on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women, the Convention on the Rights of the Child, the Istanbul Convention. You have all the serious bodies opposed to this bill. I am referring to the basic argument that you cannot say that the committee that you set up did not agree and conceal, not by innocence, its own conclusion. The Association of Judges and Prosecutors disagreed. Parliament's Legislative Committee disagreed. I mentioned before that the contrast is pediatric or genocentric. The child trophy or the child loot. This thing will create huge problems in Greek society. Right now we have 80% consensual divorces that half-heartedly find a way to go. 14% end up in court. 5% ends up in long-term court disputes. After your bill, the bourgeoisie of Aeolos opens up, because, based on your horizontal obligation, there will be no possibility or understanding between the parents who separate, since the law creates this magnificence, which forces the child to be in Petroupoli for six months in Athens, to change school every six months. I don't know how your legislators had imagined it. Instead of resolving issues that my SYRIZA colleagues, and also Mr Pafilis, have raised with great intensity, such as the issues of poverty, the classics that creates a divorce, and which one must deal with, namely the resolution of economic issues arising from a divorce, the resolution of the issue of nutrition or of the sharing of property, if there is, very often, the reason why the child is being misused by one parent, instead of creating free benefits for both parents and judges, such as the Body of Family and Social Officers, such as a House with specialised pediatricians and child psychologists, instead of making free access to these bodies, you solve the problem with seminars which will be done by judges and who should be at the same time socially, pedophiliatrists and all of this. You've opened the airlock of Haelo. You lead the Greek society to a dangerous regression. You encourage conflicts and domestic violence. And you know, these are measurable sizes and in one, two years from today we'll count them. Reduce consensual proceedings and increase litigation. And can I tell you something? When you voted in favour of the dowry years ago, you voted again with the same ruthlessness on family law and history did not vindicate you. Today, possibly, you are attributing it to circumstances or such denials.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u116	Mr. Muzala, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u117	I conclude by saying this: Greece, beyond the problems of Greek society once again - and this will be measurable and will appear in the next one, two years, but it may also be faster - will also be internationally accountable for this bill that makes the child's pediatrical character and makes the child from an autonomous person, the parent's eye and the person who can be used as a trophy or as a spoil. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u118	Mrs Theodora Jacquez from SYRIZA has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u119	Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u120	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u121	I would like to table the final legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u122	I would ask that the legislative improvements be distributed to the parliamentary groups. After Mrs. Jack, on the basis of the list of speakers, they are missing, in order to complete the cycle of speakers, with a natural presence, Mr. Kalamatianos, Mrs. Skoufa and Mrs. Ampatzidou. Three speakers. In the meantime, the Parliamentary Representatives of SYRIZA and the New Democracy have requested a few minutes' intervention. All that remains now is when they choose to intervene. If you want the speaker cycle to be completed then. It's a proposition that, a thought. From that point on, you decide. Mrs. Jackie has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u123	Ladies and gentlemen, today in cold and full consciousness, the government with the bill of the Ministry of Justice on relations between parents and children attempts to lead the core of Greek society, namely family, to a institutional regression. The political decision is already sincere, ladies and gentlemen, despite the reactions of the scientific community, the Scientific Committee of the Parliament, the academic community, specialised professional bodies and civil society organisations and despite the reactions of Members of the government's own party. I am referring to the reactions of Mrs Giannakou and Mrs Kefaloniann and, a little while ago, that I succeeded him in Step - Mr Athanasios, who asked, Minister, for changes to this bill. And as these Members denounce us, this bill comes in order to serve the interests of a particular economic elite. The government, by means of photographic provisions of these interests, therefore brings us to the vote a class bill that turns us back centuries into patriarchal, conservative and ultimately toxic families. Furthermore, the Minister for Justice seems to have received requests for movements in favour of men, which they themselves denounce behind these movements in favour of men are very strong economic interests, which they consider - these movements - that women and the feminist movement have guaranteed much more rights than they should. This explains the fact that it did not allow numerous feminist organisations and scientific bodies to deliver an opinion at the hearing of the bodies, as they disagreed with the philosophy of the bill. This does not mean, of course, ladies and gentlemen, that there are no husbands - fathers with justified complaints to their former wives, in relation to their presence in the rearing of their children. The bill simply uses these complaints as a pretext for significant institutional regression. The argument is that women - mothers take custody at a very high rate, but without mentioning that, to a very large extent, their husbands - fathers do not claim to the courts the custody of their children, but only the right to communicate with them. With a communiqué propaganda, however, as this government likes throughout its governance, it has created a post-realism, where Greek society allegedly allegedly is alleged to embrace this supposedly great reform of family law. It is obviously a matter of blatant lies. Ladies and gentlemen, strong concern has arisen because the bill under discussion removes the paedophile character of our family law, bringing to the vote a generic bill and, indeed, the financially strong parent, to whom it gives the right to veto and quasi-judicial claims in parental custody decisions, thereby threatening the economic extinction of the financially impossible parent and also the cohesion of the family. The child is no longer treated as an arbitrary person, as has always and internationally been recognised, but as a regulated subject, as a passive recipient of privileged relations and pursuits. This backward view of the child as the continuation of the parent family, whose opinion will be taken into account by the court only if it is determined that it is not the result of guidance or submission of the other parent, has caused reactions, not only at national level, but also at pan-European level. Already, eighty-five domestic and foreign organisations sent a letter to the Prime Minister for his withdrawal, insisting on the opposition of this bill to the Istanbul Convention, ratified by our country, to the European Victims Rights Directive and, of course, to the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. In other words, Minister, we risk being condemned by the European Court of Justice by a government. The horizontal, compulsory and equally conscientious change of residence, culminating in the bill, cannot be regarded as benefiting the child, regardless of circumstances of age, if it is a child of a school, if it is a teenager. An unprecedented verbatimism attempts to guide the judiciary crisis on a case-by-case and case-by-case basis in a horizontal arrangement for all children, with the argument of the pseudo-parent alienation. It is enough, in fact, to threaten the diligent parent that she will be removed if she does not see to it that his child has contact with the relatives of the other parent. Besides not identifying who these relatives who are diligent in the parent should essentially require his child to have relationships - are the grandparents, are the uncles, are the cousins of the parent line? -, he's not even considering whether the other parent has led his child to this alienation. Paediatric psychologists are already beating the alarm that such a practice is capable of causing anxiety in adolescents who, in fear of harming the other parent, will tolerate associations that they do not want to have. The bill, ladies and gentlemen, also creates two speed parents with quantified criteria. The 1/3 parent of the child, who has only rights: the right to be informed on a daily basis of the custody decisions of the other parent, is entitled to limit the time spent with his child to a lesser percentage, to the presumption of innocence, even in cases of complaints of domestic violence. And the parent of two-thirds who is the only parent with only obligations, such as the obligation to continue accountability, the obligation not to alienate his child with any of the relatives of the other line, the obligation to tolerate a criminal parent or partner as a final decision, that is to say, a final decision for seven years, since it has taken so much time, ladies and gentlemen, to get a criminal case to the audiences of the criminal courts. It is obvious that in the Greek society, which is mostly expressed as violence against women, such a bill undermines their security and hence the security of the Greek family itself. In addition, it should be noted that the bill burdens women disproportionately and economically. This is also the case with compulsory mediation, which institutionally strengthens the financially powerful parent, in a society with significant economic disparities between men and women and in a country without family courts, without a state of welfare and support for families and, in particular, the single parent families. At the same time, given that the cases of abuse and domestic violence, the victims of which, in their vast majority, are women and children, eventually little reach the audience and even less tried, the bill shields the strong. SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance is undoubtedly in favour of conscientiousness, and this is why, moreover, during its government term of office, he took a legislative initiative in this regard. Undoubtedly, our forty-year-old family law requires a reform and further modernisation to embrace single-parent families. The conclusion of the Tene Commission, which was arrested by this government, could be a basis in the right direction of legislating. However, the Government chooses backwardness as a political view and as a philosophical attitude and approaches the Greek family comparatively and patriarchally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, Mrs. Jackie. Mr Dionysios Kalamatianos has the floor now from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, let us all hope that things will go well with the fire that has been burning and affecting Attica and other regions. It's okay! Of course, I have not heard the fact that the findings of the murderous fire in Matti have been made public and that it is essentially the responsibility of the officials and not the former district minister, Mrs Durou, who has been through a great adventure. I'm coming to the bill right away. We were all expecting, Minister, when you said you would bring family law bills with great interest. We expected that it would indeed be a reformist and progressive piece of legislation. We have waited for a bill that would give a new impetus over time to this particular law, because family law is indeed a very special law, the provisions of which are in force today are not considered obsolete. On the other hand, the current provisions respond to the importance they have and are regarded as modern, even today thirty-eight years after their adoption. In fact, these provisions are in line with all international and European conventions on the rights of the child. It is a piece of legislation that has shown stamina and adaptability from 1983 to today. Of course, we agree that improvements and changes are needed. We need improvements that will address problems that have been created. We don't disagree about that. On the contrary, we were and are ready to enter into dialogue, but in a dialogue aimed at real reforming family law, which will meet the real needs of Greek society, which will promote the mutual custody of children by parents and after divorce. This was the direction that we had and was ready to submit in July 2019 by the SYRIZA government. Unfortunately, we find that several of the provisions of the bill that came do not improve and modernise family law are not taking steps forward but step backwards. Firstly, there was no broad consultation and dialogue primarily with society. I can hear you, Minister, say that you want a consensus and a common position. Here we are to do it. But how will this happen when you are not listening to not only us but also to the Members of the Co-Police, officials and MPs of the New Democracy? You are not listening to the Scientific Service of the Parliament, which has raised very serious objections to this legislation to specific provisions. You don't hear scientists. You don't hear lawyers. You don't listen to the Citizen's Counselor, specific points. You don't hear domestic and international organisations. You're not listening to society. How, then, are we going to make joint legislation and how will this dialogue progress to have something positive that we will all agree to promote the provisions of our family law? So insist that you legislate, while all of them bring their resistance and reactions to what you bring. It is common knowledge that these specific provisions will not solve problems. It will barely increase conflicts, cause new legal disputes, parents' disputes. The most important thing, however, Mr Minister, is what we have pointed out since the first moment: the child's interest centre is being transferred from the focus to the child. Because the conquest of the primary for the time of family law in 1983 was that it put the child at the centre right. Now what are you guys doing? The focus is on parental relations. This is what you are trying to solve and you do not do it in the right way. You're doing it the wrong way. It's not the child's interest. First of all, it must be the best interests of the child. And again, there will be many disputes, court disputes, problems. That is why your officials point out these problems. It's not just us. Listen to your people. I come to the rules and the issue of the equal exercise of parental responsibility. This provision essentially introduces the child's alternating residence. So what do we have? A continuous movement of the child from one parent’s home to another. But we all agree, scientists, everyone and we still, that the child needs a stable environment. And the question is: how, when applying this provision, the child can be understood with a suitcase in his hand, which will go from one parent to another's home and where will he go to school, where will he pursue his activities, where will he go for his sport? If parents stay in different remote areas, it's a bigger problem. If they stay in another town, how will it happen? The Civil Code, as it stands, does not even provide in marriage for the same exercise of parental responsibility, it does not use that word. This is where another arrangement is needed. We have proposed the 'equivalent' that would help. That's not what you hear either. Another problematic provision is the legalisation of 1/3 of communication at least. How will that rate be calculated? Every day? Weekly? Monthly? Annually? How will it be calculated? And one parent to satisfy this provision, who makes it compulsory, can take the child on weekends, holidays, Christmas, Easter, summers, and the other parent in the week, in the five days that will effectively exercise custody, but will not have quality time with the child, while the other one will. How do you regulate these things? In other words, the legislator has to predict, he must see the future. These problems are coming, we're going to live. We lawyers, the lawyers will live in practice. It's a lot of trouble. The other issue that will cause too many problems is the parental information about routine custody or urgent actions. So, the kid will be hit, and the parent who's with the kid will call the other phone and say, "Oh, hit the kid, take it to the hospital?" What are we going to do in urgent cases? He's not answering the law. You do not answer these critical issues. So we see that even the relationship between parents who are good, with these legislations, can be disturbed. It's very possible. That's what we have to solve. And I come to the issue of domestic violence. We all know that the decisions are in four to six years' time in the Greek courts. Unfortunately, it is. And the child who's gonna be abused will live with that parent after four to six years? He needs another setup. He needs a setup. Look at it. You still have time, even now, to see what we're going to do with it. There are solutions. They have been proposed to both committees and everywhere. In conclusion, with social changes as has been the case, we all agree that modernisation and adaptation are needed. However, this must be the product of an extensive dialogue. You have not even taken into account the outcome of the legislative committee. You have adopted the minority in many respects. You closed your ears to scientists, women's organizations. You have ruled out every opposing voice, even if it was the voice of reason and with arguments. There are too many objections from Parliament's Scientific Service, first of all. It must therefore be understood that even if this piece of legislation is passed, the need for a thorough and extensive debate remains, particularly, a debate with the actors and with society. A new legislative initiative must therefore be taken in a progressive manner, which will refocus on the child and its needs, to promote the resolution of problems and conflicts. We pledge that this will be our priority when the Greek people trust us again. That's what society needs. That's what parents need. That's what the child needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u126	Mr Ragossi, you have the floor. A brief intervention from what I understand, you want to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u127	I would have taken the floor anyway after the Minister's position, in response to what he said that the Chief of Staff, Mr. Tsipras, has come up with a very serious matter in the meantime, Mr. Tsiara, for which you will now hear what we are obliged to present to the House. First of all, let me say this. In the Greek Parliament, the Minister of Justice, when a secret procedure is under way, such as the pre-examination committee procedure, cannot go up to this step and addressing the Chief of Officerial Response, to put in the mouth the words "what we hear about the pre-examination committee".
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u128	I read them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u129	Do you read them, on the basis of them, as a Minister of Justice, who you read about a secret procedure that you are not a member - Mr. Plearis is a member and has not dared not once, as was I when I was a member of the 'NOVARTIS' pre-inquiry, to open our mouths from this Step for the pre-inquiry - to use them to criticize the Chief of Police? There's nothing you've left without breaking it, Minister of Justice! There's nothing you haven't left to disrespect! Finally, it is not possible for the Justice Minister to say "we heard about the pre-examination and so, Mr. Tsipras, the alpha, the beta, the gamma...". That is unacceptable, both formal and essentially moral and legal! Secondly, you have every right and, obviously, your position is extremely difficult. It's not just Mrs. Giannakou, it's not just Mrs. Kefalokiannis, it's not just Mr. Voloudakis. We have already heard Mr Athanasios. They stripped it of the piece of legislation you recommend to the majority Members to vote on. In that sense, yes, it makes sense to be in a very difficult position, but do whatever defence you think you should do. Don't twist. You cannot claim, when we have all heard it - unless, in your turbulence, you have not retained it, you have not understood it, respected, human beings - you cannot claim that Mr Tsipras did not recognise the existence of a problem. It's inaccurate. It's a distortion. And it has been relayed to all the media that the Justice Minister said that he did not recognize the problem that Mr. Tsipras had. That's not true. Does not his words yet sound in your ears that the problem with thousands of dads who do not belong to this category, who are behind those who imposed you these arrangements, will still have a problem, why do you not solve the problem with what you are proposing? That's what Mr. Tsipras said. He didn't say there was no problem. So don't twist. And the last thing that has emerged in the meantime, Mr Chiara, is that on 17 May two special rapporteurs from the United Nations responsible for combating discrimination against women and violence against women, intervened by letter to the Government. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I want a minute. I don't want any more. As provided for, after forty-eight hours, this letter was made public. The two rapporteurs asked for their letter to be lodged in the House, Mr. Chiara. Mr. Chiara, Mr. President of Parliament, please. This is a very serious issue and a very delicate one. It is, in fact, a reproach, a complaint that is being made by us at the moment. Please listen, to answer, as you think you should answer. So you were asked by the two UN rapporteurs to submit their letter to the House. According to their letter, they also express their opposition to Article 5 of the bill, concerning the interests of the child and Article 11, concerning the obligation on the parent to preserve the relationship with the family of the other parent and with Article 13, namely the presumption of communication, which is now known and is not available, and in relation to Article 14, on the elimination of guarantees in the event of abuse and provision for the final decision on Article 7, on the joint and equally exercise of parental responsibility in respect of Article 8 on mediation. This letter is a six-page letter. Unfortunately, we did not have time to study it - it has now come to our attention - and that is why the Chief of Police Response did not mention it, the President of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr Tsipras, earlier. I'll testify to her for the Minutes. This one has - as the letter itself says -...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u130	Where's the letter from?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u131	They're from two United Nations rapporteurs...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u132	The United Nations?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u133	Yes, which, as predicted, saw the light of publicity after forty-eight hours.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u134	Mr. Ragossi, testify...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u135	Is that what you're holding in your hands now, or what they brought you?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u136	I'll hold on to it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u137	The letter is from two rapporteurs. That's what I understand from the names spoken in English. Now it has come to our hands and we have not been able to translate it or translate it well - well to read it. That is why we give you the opportunity to answer that, Mr Chiara. So two rapporteurs for the elimination of discrimination - I repeat - against women express the express opposition to a number of articles - major articles, which, moreover, have focused on all the criticisms made by all the opposition parties and by the New Democracy Members who disagree with this bill, are calling for this letter to be brought to Parliament. He didn't come to the House. And the question, Mr Chiara, is this letter if it is in your knowledge, if it has actually been sent to the relevant Minister, who is you, and what exactly you have done with this letter. And if you know her, obviously the question arises why you hid her from the Greek Parliament. I think the conclusion following this letter, which I shall be tabling for the Minutes, is that, as the last one understands - remote home - from the Greek Parliament of Greece and Greece, this bill has become the occasion for Greece to be subject to the targeted countries for violating basic rights for both children and women. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Ragussis, presents for the minutes the abovementioned letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Unfortunately, Mr Chiara, it seems that neither of us, who have been the main critics since the first moment of this legislative initiative, did not imagine the magnitude of the evil, the size of the damage you have done in Greek society, mothers, children, families, dads and, finally, in the country itself. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u138	Thank you, Mr. Ragosi. Mrs. Scouffa Elisabeth has the floor from SYRIZA. Mrs Apatzides Maria will then be given the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u139	Mr President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u140	Mr. Pleari, would you like to speak now? Two speakers are to complete the cycle.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u141	Then, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u142	Good. Mrs Skoufa will now take the floor, then Mrs Apatzidis and then Mr Ploris. Here, Mrs. Scouffa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u143	The draft law was also not passed and the institutions were'started' by the international bodies and committees, as our Parliamentary representative Mr Ragus said, in this letter which was hidden, as it appears from the House of Members, the letter of the two UN rapporteurs. Ladies and gentlemen, when we legislate as a Parliament, we are called upon to face up to social problems, and of course on the basis of every legislative effort there is the question of whether there is a social problem, to what extent the bills solve or create more problems. Clearly from any wing of the House, no parliamentary group has heard the claim that there is no social issue, that there are no cases of former families and now divorced parents who do not meet, who do not communicate with their children as often as they wish. But personally, Minister, I am very much short of the fact that no specific percentage figures have been submitted to the House to ensure that we know how much this problem is encountered in the modern Greek society. You were initially invoked and said that the bill would solve 90% of the problematic communication and parental care. What 90%, while thankfully the modern Greek couples at 86% separate consensually? In other words, the two parents come into full and detailed - most of the time - agreement on issues relating to daily care and care of their child. That is a very positive fact. So you're claiming that the law solves the problems of 14% in so-called dispute divorces. However, the following question arises and I have listened with great attention to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights: 'I appreciate and appreciate that the problem has nothing to do with the existing family code, but the problem lies in the application of this code'. So the interventions - I put it as a rhetorical question - should they relate to the case law itself, as the lawyers say, and not to the codes of family law? [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] There is another issue that this bill does not deal with at all. What is this issue? Since 1983, the Greek state has not created an integrated supportive, advisory law for social and special scientists and services, which are essentially responsible for investigating a number of important factors relating to the former family and the lifestyle of parents, the lifestyle of children. They are exploring, in other words, a multitude of psychosocial economic conditions and problems that may arise after a divorce. What should these committees of social scientists and psychologists do and what should these committees do? I should be helping the judge in any case. So, Minister, we are talking about the urgent need at last in Greece of 2021 to establish family courts. And I fully agree with what was said to your face that it is not allowed Minister of Justice to wash his hands and say that the family courts in Greece of 2021 cannot be founded. You have not convinced us of the reasons why they cannot be founded. We also believe that it is a capable and effective proposal to treat divorced parents. I'll go down. There are very specific problems in the bill. The first and foremost is that you legislate horizontally. And this horizontal legislation also contradicts the requirement of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, which says that the interests of the child must be examined on a case-by-case basis. In other words, Mr Minister, you cannot say that in general and in all cases the best interest of the child is to have contact with both parents. It is a fine pedagogical principle, perhaps, but it cannot and must not be applied, as I will prove, in any case. But I would like to say in advance that you cannot say in Article 5 that the decision of the court must also be taken on this principle. Eventually, as Minister of Justice, do you trust the judiciary or do you want to pre-paid its judgment? However, there is also a clear moral and contentious problem, Mr Minister, which is not covered and which is barely extended by your specific legislation. What's that? That in many cases they are not suitable - I dare say and celebrate socially - both parents, in order to have constant contact and daily communication with the child. When does that happen? It is particularly the case in the case of a malignant parent, that is to say, in the case of a person who is more commonly - or a wife who is spreading hand, preying, declining the personality of the other parent and making the child a spectator of endless scenes of domestic violence.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u144	Madam Colleague, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u145	I shall conclude, Mr President. How about these cases, Minister? And you are - I am sorry for what I will say - morally responsible for the fact that you are exposing the victims, the child and the one member of the parental relationship, that you are forcing the victims to be in daily communication and in daily relationship with the malicious perpetrator.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u146	Thank you, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u147	Minister, you're withdrawing the bill. Set as the basis the finding of the Legislative Committee and invite all institutions and women's organisations, all parties, in order to find a solution to the enormous social problem of divorced parents' children. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u148	Thank you. We will now continue with Ms Maria Apatzidou from Mera25 and then move on to online talks. Mr. Flouris, would you like to take the floor immediately afterwards?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u149	After they've finished...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u150	Will you talk again?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u151	Oh, no. Intervention from here I'll do. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u152	Okay. Here you go, Mrs. Apajidis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u153	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are once again called upon to place ourselves on a bill which does not only solve problems that it is supposed to solve but, on the contrary, creates the bill itself with its provisions even more. You are attempting, with this legislative intervention, the euphemism of modernising family law, modernising that no one has requested but certain specific minority groups, whose interests you are seeking to serve exclusively, Minister. And that is not our opposition view. The same is heard by members of your party. Once again, no bodies and organisations directly affected by the provisions of the bill were called. So, on such a sensitive issue of the welfare of children, you alone legislate as if you were better aware than those concerned about their own good. In other words, today, in 2021, you are trying to bring back to society attitudes over the past decades. Not only have all interested parties been invited to the consultation, but you do not hesitate to plead falsely on their participation, forcing them to disprove you. Many women's organisations and the Paedophilia Society of Greece say that you have baptized the voluntary mission of their proposals, which you obviously did not take into account. Do you think, Minister, these things are serious? Such behaviour has neither little children nor all supposedly in the child's interests, in general and vaguely, without being substantiated only by false scientific evidence and conditions that have been destroyed by the scientific community worldwide. How does the child's interest serve when enclosing it in a constant competition between parents? How can injustices be restored by this bill? By perpetuating the parents' conflicts? Your intention to serve the pursuits of some groups is clear from the first article in the bill. There you arbitrarily and horizontally identify the best service of children’s interests with the active presence of both parents in their upbringing, without however considering who these parents are, what their contribution is to the child’s upbringing so far, their relationship with the child, their attitude toward the other parent, their mental balance and much more. From the first articles, too, you rushed to inform us that this bill is fully compatible with the international treaties which bind the country, with the Treaty of Istanbul. Why did you feel that need, Minister, really? What is the reason for this reference? Why is the exact opposite actually the case? It appears that this is the case, since Article 8(2) is completely in conflict with the provisions of international conventions which you refer to from the first article, namely the Istanbul Convention, where Article 48 expressly states that a mandatory alternative solution to conflicts is prohibited, including the mediation procedure in cases where domestic violence exists. We could analyse the hours of each of the deliberate failures of the bill, finding a multitude of such problematic provisions, such as the child's natural presence in communication on the presumption of a third of the year, the introduction of the concept of alternating residence and Article 14 on the misconduct of custody and so on. Oddly, however, the case of divorce is completely ignored because of a husband's malicious behaviour, a malicious behaviour that even though the child does not have as a victim, is always perceived, by the child, who is mentally injured. In this case, the bill can only be seen as a criminal, since it actually imposes the presence of the malicious parent in the life of the child, because for the definitive removal of the abuser it is necessary to condemn it, which means four to five years of judicial struggle, financial bleeding of the denounced parent and inconceivable trauma to the life of the victims. I would remind you here that you have been asking for a maximum sentence, that is, over a decade. So you've thought about it and analyzed your bill. But I won't spend any of this. After all, many colleagues have mentioned, showing the abortion you are bringing to the vote. I would like to dwell more on your political practice, on the refusal to consult all the parties involved in the bill and, more specifically, on women's organisations, thus choosing a side in the race war that you declared in the name of the children, even reversed the roles of the perpetrator and the victim, the incredible excuses and arguments you are using to defend, such as invoking the multitude of interventions recorded in the consultation as proof of the correctness of his predictions. Repeat, are you serious, Minister? In unequivocal, unscientific and completely opposed to the reality that the culture of compromises between people, if there is no law, is imposed on the general practice of legislating your government which, with general anointings for a modernization that no one understood in here, I believe - beyond you fifty-four, I will say myself, MPs - how it will come, you legislate clearly in the direction of serving specific interests. This is what you have always done, except in this case, the victims are primarily children and, secondly, some poor parents who have ceased to be married. Unfortunately, we have too many such cases. Why do you want to be blind? Why are you going backwards? Why don't you take compassion on these issues relating to the preservation and well-being of the Greek family? Why do you show such carelessness and so much bias? Unfortunately, one is the answer to all this: you are dangerous, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple. Your bill has patriarchy and regression.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u154	Thank you. Mr Ploris has asked for a small intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u155	Mr President, I am not going to abuse, respecting the colleagues who are waiting to speak. However, since the Members of Parliament have been put, in a short time, within three minutes, I shall conclude my speech. I listened very carefully to the political leaders and indeed, if anyone has not read the bill, he will think they are addressed to another bill. What you say about compulsoryity, tell me where he comes here to say that something is compulsory and does not decide the court. The legislator gives direction to something that you agree is a problem. Why say that with the current legislative framework, matters can be resolved when you have a forty-year-old consolidated case law that does not change and has specific principles, 95%, 5%, you have to intervene in the law. And how do we interfere? We intervene, giving the judge the absolute power. The judge will finally decide on the best interests of the child. Communication is that wish and presumption are to one third, because it is good for the child, but the judge will still be able to decide. And there, especially, where perfect distortion is taking place is that in the final decision, ladies and gentlemen. Today, the judge freely judges, with whatever element he wants, whether there is abuse or not. That remains. But while there could be a final decision today and there would be a court to say that although there is a final decision, I consider it possible to continue with it, to set a foundation for the bill, that at least I think that this is a bad exercise and you have to explain. So you're free again to decide as a judge and with a single complaint, if the judge is convinced, and to say that I am taking a decision, whether temporary order or interim measures or final decision. This possibility exists, as it existed, and we put an insurance match. If there is a definitive decision, however, that is more powerful. I come to the Communist Party of Greece. It's the main difference we have for the family. You believe in the class family. We believe in what the Constitution says, that the family is a foundation for the maintenance and promotion of the nation. That's what the editorial legislator says. You have accused the Deputy Minister, gentlemen of the Communist Party of Greece, of referring to children's rights and saying nothing about children in Gaza. The European Union is talking about protecting all children. But, as there are children in Gaza, there are children in Israel who see rockets coming up against them. So when we respect the children, we respect the children as a whole, and we in particular indulge those who put the children in front of them and throw the rockets behind them. So all the kids respect and not selective. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall close, Mr President, with something very quickly. I asked you for three minutes, and I'm in three minutes. I'm waiting to see what SYRIZA's gonna do. You said that you tabled a roll-call vote, but you do not like the procedures. Will you vote in the roll-call vote? Have you specified that? Or will you do what you did last time, that you put a roll-call vote and stand up and leave? Mr Ragonification, you have to say: will you stay to vote in the roll-call vote? We are not afraid of them, because in a social phenomenon there will be jobs everywhere. You're the obsessed ones you're afraid of. So will you stay inside for your Members to vote on 'no' and all Mr Tsipras has said, or will you choose the tactics 'I put the roll-call and leave'? Let's see it, because the absence is judged.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u156	We will now continue with Mr Emmanuel Konsola from New Democracy. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u157	Good evening. Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, Mr Secretary, today comes to the vote an important bill that has sparked a wide-ranging debate, a positive response from the standpoint of counter-population, and has also led to a broad social debate. So the rhetorical expression from a section of the Antipolitics that there is no objective and no risk, probably has fallen into the void, because the law of the Ministry of Justice on relations between parents and children gives rise to changes in family law as far as the issues of parental care arise after divorce or status between parents are concerned. It is therefore extremely important and very topical in these days that social cohesion, the welfare of the citizens, is a project and that Mr Tsiaras has done so, and I would like to express my complete satisfaction at the fact that this reform at last finds a way out and that the Greek society will find its pace. The government must listen to all sides and to all views, and the leadership of the Ministry of Justice does, of course, the views of Members who also have the responsibility of voting on this bill. I am watching, Mr President, with great interest, intervention by colleagues who express an opinion, support it with arguments and try to contribute to the legislative function of the National Representation. The right of ministers to take legislative initiatives is respected. I believe, however, that the presence and role of Members of Parliament should be strengthened in advance in the course of the drafting of legislative initiatives. To a large extent, the head of the Ministry of Justice has done so in the previous period. Let us not forget that parliamentarians are the bodies and expressions of legislative power. These are standing positions as regards me as a member and the Ministerial Council in the previous period, and the Members of Parliament know that we have taken the relevant initiatives for change. From there on as far as the bill is concerned, there has been a great debate on conscientiousness. Consistency becomes essential when it has as its primary and sole goal to ensure the mental balance and the creation of a safe environment for the child. We have heard our rapporteur, and we have heard the Minister argue in this direction, which has been understood throughout the Parliament. It is not a game of power and of balance or power between parents. This is a conclusion, which has been understood during these days at the National Representation. It requires good faith, cooperation, consultation between parents and is linked to specific conditions. Consistency does not have a horizontal application and dimension, because there are cases where a parent does not care about or is considered dangerous or incapable of this work. It is therefore clear in these cases that there is no conscience as a rule. Consistency also does not exist when one parent stays at a distance in a different city. In this case, communication with the child should be ensured. The alteration of family shelters for the child on the pretext of conscientiousness only does not have positive effects. It is therefore a good piece of legislation that the Minister has put forward, which makes it clear that if the parental care is exercised by both parents without having the same residence, the child will have the residence of the parent with whom he resides. I would, however, like to refer to a matter which has shocked us all and which concerns topicality. It's an important issue. I am referring to the robbery and murder of the young mother in the Freshwaters, who leaves an orphan baby, but most importantly leaves us all with the size of this barbarity. The government brought changes immediately after the country's government took over to the Law of Paradise. He prepares, from what we know, others. We also welcome this perspective. Constantine Karamanlis said that when we talk about life, we mean life. With the implementation of the Paradise Act, we had a new regulatory framework, which horizontally reduced penalties and proceeded to release without being examined on a case-by-case basis. Would you like to see some of the consequences? In August 2015, we were all witnessed - he was murdered, after he was cruelly tortured and robbed, a restaurant in Hydra. The chief and members of the arrested criminal group were released shortly before the murder, using the provisions of this law. In September 2015, a twenty-seven-year-old jeweler was murdered in Thessaloniki during the robbery. You all remember the reaction from social media and society's views about it. The perpetrator was released a month earlier, using the favorable provisions of this law. Tens of other incidents I could quote. Believe me, I have no intention of exercising a micropolitical or climate of confrontation with Civicism - and then government. However, invoking common sense and the evidence available confirm that this law was a great mistake. The inspiration himself, Mr. Paraskeviopoulos, two and a half years later admitted that this law had to be changed and this view of the Paraskevi afterward, which was submitted by him publicly, was a front page in all newspapers and social media. I shall submit the relevant evidence in the Minutes of this House. Society has rightly resented the brutality and brutal murder of a twenty-year-old mother, a new man. The feeling of law is satisfied when there is a rule of law that does not make discounts on agitated criminals. On the contrary, she only shows decency to those who deserve it. Conditions have matured for changes in the Criminal Code. Life expectancy for stable and dangerous criminals should be twenty years of the sentence, the release of terms and an electronic surveillance bracelet for detainees who have committed homicide in particular heinous or sexual crimes with victims of children. The citizen's right to security is a democratic right. His guarantee and exercise are the responsibility of all of us. And I am pleased that the Minister, in his public declaration, and in the whole of the headship of the Ministry of Justice in this direction, will be moving in the next period. Mr President, thank you again.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u158	Thank you very much for the time and I would very much like to thank the other colleagues. Mrs Notopoulou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u159	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, you are choosing to keep bringing to the House bills, without the necessary consultation, even though you know the strong social reactions, precisely because of the lack of consultation. You should have consulted parties, with institutions, with civil society before you bring them, that is, what is self-evident in a democracy, but not in New Democracy. As far as Parliament's own function is concerned, the title of the New Democracy tactic is indeed "when the nerve competes with hypocrisy", because you did not strengthen the National Health System, you did not strengthen public transport, you did not support the schools, you did not open tourism with a plan, and your only concern is to put the parliamentary procedure on quarantine, hide the truth, plunge society. It is very conscious of you that you have diminished democratic processes and this is actually evidenced by the refusal to answer the questions of counter-population. And that's because you don't have any answers for society. So you chose in the midst of a pandemic and without genuine consultation to bring the subject of conscientiousness, such a crucial issue for family and child life. The freedom of society, far from society, comes to impose, because otherwise it is consensual consensual consensualness, another compulsory one. You come to legislate horizontally on such a crucial issue, which - badly lies - requires maximum consensus. You, too, managed to make it a matter of authoritarianism, enforcement and division. Obviously the issue of child custody is not judged by impressions, and the point is that we all remain firm and firm in the interests of the child. Unfortunately, however, it is the Minister himself who is plundering this opportunity. In January 2020, your Government introduced a Legislative Committee on Family Law, whose conclusion has not even been taken into account. So you are bringing a draft law to a debate, by making the conclusions of the legislator - it is ambiguity, it has ambiguity, it has discrepancies - which almost all the legal systems that have been put in place said that more problems can be solved rather than solved. Once again, then, you cannot legislate and have smashed every rule of good legislation. So did you choose to do unilateral consultation, specific groups, but in fact what did you achieve? Turn the country back forty years. How else can we see this bill beyond submission and ready guidance from very specific interests? And I call for reactions from institutions and reasonings, women's organisations and feminist organisations, the Society of Family Law, the Greek Paedophilia, the Association of Greek Socialists, the Association of Judges - Prosecutors. Party collectors, too, have serious reactions to this draft law - look out! - not with conscientiousness, with your draft law. In addition, all the opposition parties have expressed themselves publicly, saying that they are giving you specific remarks, even to the committee of Parliament. You transfer responsibility for solving social problems from the courts to the legislator. And what's your target? Correct case law with direct and fragmentary legislative provisions? Convert a law from pediatric to a genome? Losing the child his recognised arbitrary personality and becoming a parental dissident? To be a risk to two warring sides? In order to avoid any misunderstanding, I am certainly in favour of creating a culture of conscientiousness, understanding, better communication between parents. We are in favour of conscientiousness. However, this bill is an absolute confirmation that conscientiousness will not succeed. We do not need to say too many reasons why this practice of exclusive conscientiousness to the mother needs to be changed. Evidently it is unfair for all, primarily for mothers who bear a huge burden, for the costs of rearing. For men it is also unfair, since, unfortunately, many of them become visitors or lose childcare. Judicial conflicts in the event of disputes are an economic hemorrhaging for both. And above all, it is unfair for children, who are often deprived of one parent or another and become a civilian population. On the other hand, however, there is also ideological level, limiting the role of women as a mother, focusing on gender that makes parenthood even more difficult for homosexual couples. We all recognize that. So we opened the way, and we diagnosed that there is a need to amend the institutional framework. SYRIZA, when he was in the government, created a law-making committee at the Ministry of Justice to see all civil and family law issues. He changed anachronistic perceptions and settings, promoted joint diligence where possible, gave more time. So you blame that it has not solved the problems of today's case-law and you also raise specific questions, say, the hours spent by the child with the father, or the problem of non-implementation of judgments on nutrition and communication. This bill solves them? Apparently not. It adds even more problems. First of all, there is a confusion between parental care and care, so that the risk of loss of parental care ultimately arises. Secondly, the legislature decides to define in particular what the interests of the child are, a otherwise vague and general concept which each judge must specialize in each case, in order to be consistent with international law. In that draft law, the interest of the child is stated primarily by the effective involvement of both parents in bringing up and taking care of them and preventing them from breaking up relationships with each other, but without excluding the cases of unsuitable or abused parents. Once again, then, the legislator compels judges to make specific decisions that tend to compel conscientiousness, even in cases which are dangerous to children. In the case of the establishment of the mediation institution, and here are class criteria for such a sensitive issue, when the system is not assisted by a set of public structures with psychologists, child psychologists, social workers and ombudsmen. He ignores the reality of domestic and racial violence. Instead of protecting children from the abused parent, he actually ends up protecting the abused parent himself, allowing him to continue to be violent toward the child or partner until irrevocable judicial decision is issued. I shall conclude, Mr President, in two minutes. We've waited long enough. It is extremely crucial.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u160	We all expected the same thing, Mrs. Notopoulou!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u161	It is extremely crucial, Mr President, and we have not been given the possibility of genuine consultation. Closed up, then, we estimate that you don't care for conspiracy to succeed. What you are interested only is in serving micro-party interests. You care completely about the conditions, about the support structures that are needed to achieve the culture of conscientiousness and its implementation. Your attitude is hypocritical and there are neither state mental care structures nor the culture of consent. Here, therefore, despite the communication efforts of the Minister to convince public opinion that the bill is in a progressive direction, we say that you are invoking the theoretically progressive objectives and what you are bringing is the opposite result. You don't care about the interests of the child, you're ahead of the regression, but you won't turn us back, because for us what matters is the best of the child's interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u162	Thank you, Mrs. Notopoulou. Mr Constantine Maraveyas has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u163	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, SYRIZA is living here in the House on his own days of Pompeii. Pending the eruption of the volcano called "Nic Pope" all SYRIZA lives moments of unspeakable agony and existential fear. It is such a horror of the revelation that the close team around Mr. Tsipras is experiencing, which leads the party of Officer Opposition to eschatological expectations. How will the "anti-Glossary" be found to save SYRIZA from its responsibilities for underground transactions aimed at setting up SMEs? How will his political opponents suddenly disappear on the face of the Earth and the party will eventually inherit the reign of the channels? All these eschatological expectations, however, bring the Civic Opposition into direct contrast once again with reality. Yesterday, Mr. Kalogericas testified to the pre-examination that he was blackmailed by the top authority center in SYRIZA. He said he has kept names since that time of the "children" of the Great Maximos who cooperated in setting up the disputed transactions, including then Deputy of SYRIZA - ANEL. He even talked about documents, about sms and about many other things that he possessed, material that, as expected, sprinkled the panic and confusion in SYRIZA. It is characteristic that the committee chairman, Mr Keletsi, has been neutralised by Mr Pappas, who has tried to testify against him an unobjectional suit. The same spasm was the threat caused by SYRIZA against Christos Kalogerica and his son for committed offences and knowing that they are being burdened, offences that you conveniently remembered now, ladies and gentlemen, but you ignored when the newspaper "DOCUMENTO" stood for you, perhaps because at that time the Kalogerica family was helping you. Today, however, your business partner has now ceased to be "left". Instead of a "partisan captain", as you called him in 2015, it was suddenly converted into a capitalist who stole 3 million euros from his involvement with the case "SME - SYRIZA". It's just the Vaxebane account, which is trying to deceive not only the witness but all the work of the committee. It is clear, of course, that Mr Vaxvanis is trying to send the ball away from 'DOCUMENTO' elsewhere. After all, he has his own personal anxiety about his media property and how they stood and developed on SYRIZA. However, if Mr Vaxebanes wants more money for his operation or more police officers for his security, he must not be the Parliament or SYRIZA. So when we see the argument and the agenda of the 'DOCUMENTO' being reproduced by Members of the Officerate, we are forced to think about who is ultimately a partner of who in this case! Ladies and gentlemen, the only way out for Mr Tsipras' close group, in addition to the sues against the president of the pre-inquiry and blackmail to their former partners not to speak, is therefore, in fact, its refusal. And that is what the gap is causing the extreme political phenomenon called "SYRIZA": Continuous repatriation in its basic positions and absolute rejection of any positive government initiative, even of the most self-evident. It is therefore an example of today's bill - to come to the debate on the bill - which you have already taken care to vote against from the debate in the committee responsible. To avoid misunderstanding, the rapporteur for Officer Xanthopoulou is a serious and very good colleague. I remember, however, the recent debate we held here in plenary on the provision for the protection of the members of the Ministry of Health's committees from malicious or abusive sues. At that time Mr Xanthopoulou raised no objection to this provision. All he asked of the Minister was to confirm that this immunity would be reserved exclusively for the work of the Coronary Committee. Although the assurance was given, what followed had nothing to do with Mr Xanthopoulou's initial responsible attitude. And what we did not hear from SYRIZA, that there is a conspiracy to cover up the doctors they give their opinions, that the members of the committee exchange favors with the Government, and a lot of other "excessions" with which Mr Xanthopoulou was then called upon to coordinate, unfortunately, with the failure to belong to the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group. So today, unfortunately, it ends up denying the obvious. Without his own thinking, SYRIZA voted against measures to protect divorced parents' children, legislative innovations that will facilitate consultation after the break-up of married life on the basic principle of non-discrimination between parents. In this way, both parents will be able to maintain unobstructed communication with their children, contributing to their presence in their normal psychological and spiritual development. Joint parental care is established by both parents after divorce, as is already the case in many other European countries. Alternative methods of resolving family differences, such as mediation, are promoted and, finally, the one-third criterion is laid down for the child's time of communication with the parent with whom he does not live. A key objective is to strengthen the active presence of both parents in raising the child so that relations with their children do not change after any divorce or divorce of spouses. This is not, therefore, a change in the state's position towards parents, but only an attempt to better serve the interests of the child. Those interests are served by the joint exercise of parental responsibility, the obligation to inform the parent who resides with the child for documents relating to it, the prior consent of the parent who does not reside with the child on important issues and the obligation of the parent who resides with the child to strengthen his relationship with the other parent and his relatives. In other words, this bill tries to bridle waste and restore effective communication, bring closer people who can once be removed, unite their forces for the public, greater good for a child. This is obviously in the best interests of the child, which the Ministry of Justice places above all adults. If we are to replace the words 'adults' and 'child' with the concepts 'cuts' and'stadium', we will find that this legislative initiative is identified, as most others do, by the general effort of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis to unite and not divide Greeks, a political responsibility which puts Greece above the parties. This is precisely what I call on you to support once again all of us together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u164	Thank you. We are now continuing with Mr Kamine, who has asked why he should be vaccinated, followed by Mr Constantinidis from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u165	Thank you, Mr President. I apologise to Mr Constantinidis, I will be very brief. Ladies and gentlemen, in the case of parental care, we must be as open as possible, neither fragmentary nor dogmatic. The Ministry renders the bill ‘Reformation of family law’. Let me have a different opinion. The family law introduced in 1983, yes, we have heard it many times in this Chamber these days, it has been a radical reform and it is a very important acquis that we must safeguard. Of course, since 1983, social reality has changed and the legislator has to adapt. The major social issue we are called upon to regulate today can be approached from four perspectives: the gender perspective, the spouse, the parent and the child's end. We all agree - ladies and gentlemen, it must of course be the interests of the child. I have to say that since the first debate in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection I have been impressed by the total lack of documentation on what is being done in the rest of Europe regarding the joint exercise of parental responsibility, mediation and the right to communication. We were promised by the Minister at the committee meeting that he would provide comparative information. The only thing we have finally taken was in the form of a conclusion that the bill with the recital in which the Prefecture Committee, which the Minister himself had set up and the minutes of a meeting of this committee, had come to light. In the body of the bill of Legislative - let me say - absolutely wrong is included in a festive way two international conventions. This is for reasons of impression. We all know that under the Constitution, in any case, all legislative provisions must be interpreted in the light of the international conventions that have been ratified by Parliament. As far as these international conventions are concerned, they are currently coming to the body of the bill. It is a legislative inflation unacceptable, for reasons of impression alone. What does that mean? That other international conventions in place will not be implemented because they will not bring the bill back? Looking at the whole bill can distinguish between two central issues and two follow-up issues. On the one hand, the exercise of parental care and, on the other hand, the solution of the relationship between the spouse and the child is a central issue. Monitoring but also important are the institution of mediation and the training of judges. An exhaustive political and scientific dialogue has already been conducted and there have been reasonable objections to the 'joint' and 'equal' of parental care. In particular, Mr. Minister, Mr. Athanasios offered you a very good legal way out of what you need to replace it, as well as the offer and necessity of the presumption of one third in communication. Let me dwell on the institution of the family court, the upgrade of which we are proposing not today, but we have already proposed it in our election programme and even older. You reiterate, Minister, that it is not possible to become family courts on the grounds that 70% of the cases concern the Athens and Thessaloniki first instances. It would therefore be possible for the family courts to be set up by the special sections of their formation provided for by Law 2447/1996 to be upgraded to separate courts to decide on matters relating to parental care and the communication of parents and children. If this institution of the family court had operated over the past twenty-five years in our country, we would have spoken today on completely different terms. I must conclude by expressing the following concern which also confirms the need for the family courts. In Article 18, you are paving the way for overthrowing the parental care agreements already made with the existing regime at the request of one of the two parents within two years of the entry into force of this draft. Imagine what has to be done in the first instances of the country in the very near future, where parental care cases with the existing legal framework and assumptions with the new legal framework will be accumulated on the boards of the courts with the judges to decide immediately and quickly with only the training seminars of the National Courts. That is why it is required here and now - and I repeat for once - not only to strengthen the institution of mediation but also to upgrade the institution of the family court with trained judges, truly trained, who will have as their sole object family law cases assisted by social workers, psychologists and psychiatrists as experts. If that's not the case, I'm afraid we'll meet in front of very unpleasant surprises. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u166	I have something on staff with Mr. Maraveya. Would you give me the floor for two minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u167	Did he mention your name?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u168	Fully.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u169	Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u170	Mr Maravegias has given me the honour of mentioning me in his speech, and I do not understand how he connected Kalogris, me and the bill, in a delusional style, even saying that I, when Mr Contozamans' amendment had been here in the draft legislation under discussion on the provision of immunity for the imprisonment of members of the Committee on Infectiouss, asked me just clarification. But then, although I am a serious man, I have the misfortune of being in the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group and I have taken this collective decision. I really can't follow him. I asked Mr. Kontozamanis in detail something he answered about. We have reached an agreement at the level of the parliamentary group and we have followed the appropriate procedure. One is that. Secondly, it is not unfortunate to be in the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group. It's an honor. I've been on the left since I was eighteen. These characterizations and arbitrary thoughts characterise the one who expresses them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u171	Thank you. Mr. Constantinidis, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u172	Mr President, Minister, Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a draft law dealing with a sensitive social chapter, the relationship between parents and children following the break-up of marital coexistence. We are all aware, above all, that in such situations people often lead to controversy where their children, once unintentional, sometimes sadly and consciously, are involved. In these cases, the rule is the multi-annual disputes with traumatic consequences for children because of both conflicts. It has already been said by several speakers that the existing progressive for the time of the law has completed its life. Social structures, institutions and perceptions have changed and it is time to reform the legislative framework to meet the new conditions and needs. A few months ago, I had a relative conversation with a woman and mother who lived for some years abroad. I actually saw the surprise on her face when I explained that the usual practice in Greece is the assignment of custody to the mother and the recognition of the right of communication to the father. She herself considered it self-evident to raise children from both parents after divorce. I think each of us from various stimuli that he has received has realised the need to create a new functional environment for people who separate, who will serve the best interests of the child. Because, in fact, there is an best interest between the many needs and rights of each child and those of the practical incompatibilities which may characterise each case. But I must say that the announcement of the legislative initiative by the Minister for Reflexes I would say that it gave me contradictory thoughts. On the one hand, I said 'at last' about changing a landscape that had ended up being particularly problematic and inefficient and, on the other, influenced by the intensity of similar cases from a professional perversion, one would say, I was afraid we were touching very sensitive strings. But the draft law disarmed all my suspensions. He managed to move to the limit of reasoned modernisation. It aims at dismantling procedural tensions, combating the perception of "I'll take your children", defines the framework in a direction of dismantling and confiscation. It is founded on the predominant scientific positions and modern social perceptions, it goes hand in hand with the era and with society. What is its main axis? That the best interest of the child is served by the effective participation of both parents in his upbringing and care. What does he intend to do? To prevent the child from breaking into relationships with each parent, to remove the former couple from deadlocked conflicts and disputes, to direct each parent to respect the rights of the other, at the same time as complementary and necessary for the balance of the child, to lead to consensual solutions to mediation, but also to compliance and respect for agreements and judgments. Of course it sets a judicial framework for the judge. That makes every legislation. Since, however, we are talking about human relations and the need for an individual assessment, the law provides broadness and flexibility. The rule is to jointly and equally exercise parental care in the post-marital relationship. Has the criticism been heard that 'equal' did not define the relationship between the spouse and why should it then be defined? But that is not the case. Even though there was no explicit wording from anywhere, there was no supremacy relationship between the rights of the two parents. It also provides for the obligation to protect and strengthen the relationship of the child with the other parent and with its wider family, but also for the obligation to inform the child of his or her case, which is also self-evident and necessary. Crisis point during the debate was the introduction of the presumption of communication to one/3 of the total year, which is fully in line with the philosophy of the project, almost a prerequisite for abandoning the logic of child labour in legal disputes. A presumption, as has been said repeatedly - but unfortunately still to be misunderstood, I am deliberately afraid - a fighter, which means that, depending on the circumstances, the judge can formulate the other criteria and reach a different decision. In cases where parental care is now misused, in addition to the existing general provision for it to be removed from the parent who violates or abuses its duties, criteria are established that help the work of justice and safeguard the interests of children. These are the non-compliance with judicial decisions and agreements, the alienation of the child with one parent and the disruption of their relationships, the breach or obstruction of the decision to communicate or misuse or omission of its exercise by the beneficiary parent, the unjustified non-payment of nutrition, the condemnation of the parent with a final decision on domestic violence or crimes against the sexual freedom or exploitation of sexual life. In this way, everyone will now know the indifference and serious consequences of certain behaviours. As has been well explained in view of the important consequences, but also of abuse, I think it is reasonable to support at least the primary conviction, in order to bring about the consequences of the law. Moreover, there was a lot of talk about the need for a family court to be set up. But they are not panacea, and as you know - and this has already been said - there are specific sections which are already avengeing the largest volume of the cases in question. In conclusion, I would like to congratulate the Minister for his courage and to state my support for this balanced and coherent legislative initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u173	Thank you too for keeping time. We're continuing with Mr. Lappa from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u174	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I believe you believe that what you're doing is a good thing for family law. This is a basic position of yours. And secondly, you say that you do not understand the negative attitude of the opposition parties and those of your party who have a critical attitude with objections and objections. The first problem is an indisposed element of anyone's psychicism to believe what he thinks is what he believes. The second one, however, has to do, not only with you, but with a large number of organisations, bodies, communities, personalities, persons, Members, colleagues, to describe the sterile and negative attitude of all those I have mentioned to you. Let's see, then, who are those who expressed a sterile negative attitude to the bill. Firstly, today only eighty-eight European and international networks, one hundred four women's organisations, yesterday eighty-one Greek and European organisations - the four are also international - sent a letter to the Prime Minister and asked for the bill to be withdrawn. Today it has been revealed in the House that not only these organizations but also the UN itself, who is the international player, guardian and enforcer of the international convention on the rights of the child, have raised objections to all the issues which are the contentious aspects of our objections: 'equality', 'one third', Article 100 of your bill, all these controversial points. Mr. Ragus said it before. It is important that you currently have in front of you not the domestic opposition arch or the legal community, now you have European and international institutions, the most official. In fact, in the first article of your bill you say that your bill, as set out below, implements the spirit and provisions of the International Convention on Rights of the Child, namely the UN and the UN today make comments. Please take this into account, because it will be an obsessed completely, persuasive refusal, unjustified at all times. Minister, you say you have had a very good dialogue. Women's organisations which were lawmakers in 1983 did not invite you. Before committee Ten debates spread over and out of the public for a long time with the legal community, legal associations, judges, legal schools, you did not. No women's organization called the ministry. In any case, you will say that they have their own word and their own 'interest' to object. Well, they object. Does the Scientific Service of the Parliament today, which denouncing and completely dismantling all the arguments of the ten points involved in it, have any interest, which is the first time in the two years of New Democracy's governance? He's completely delegating your bill. I shall refer to four or five points if time is right. That's what matters. Your bill does something that is unacceptable, Minister. You're not bringing any reform. It was that of 1983, which abolished fatherhood, handshakes, which highlighted the interests of the child as a crown of family law which guided and hungered the thought of parents, society and judges. You are simply making an intervention, which is a counter-reformation, in my legal sense. And I'll tell you why. Firstly, it reintroduces two concepts that have been abolished since 1983, compulsoryity and fault. In your bill, these two concepts are diffuse within you, and they are borne unilaterally and unfairly - the Scientific Service of the Parliament tells you on pages 13 and 15 I think - the parent who is diligent or resides with the child. The other parent, who has a serious right - huge - which is also a duty - to engage in communication, has little to do with it. This injustice constitutes legislative irrationality. And here, as I am saying absurdly, this is the view of the laws which have been open for many months to hold public debate on the provisions of the bills when Mr Ten has still been discussing. In any case, I say that you have a frustration and abhorrent attitude to what he has done and what has become even from legal scientists on SYRIZA. And I am talking about the Legislative Committee under Mr Papageorgiou, the Deputy Prosecutor of the Ice Arena. You didn't like the finding. You made one of your own with Mr. Tent and the top legal figures you chose yourself. What did you do with her? And now we ask you three times in three committees to tell us who the lawmakers of this bill are? Because we as lawyers who have been ministering to justice for forty years at the audience and have eaten the legal provisions of Parental Law with the spoon, we have a claim to know whether "1/3" and "equivalent" are starting, starting, thinking about legal man, a legal scientist. That is not what you said and you have a duty to say. For me it is incomprehensible, it cannot start from the thought of a legal person to say that something that did not apply to marriage will be valid after the separation, which is much worse, after conflict. In fact, a psychiatrist from the institutions said that the conflicting divorce liberates a volcano that burns souls, consciences, rights, collectives such as family and society as it is, since it renders families and makes it difficult to develop free and conscious personalities, as the family should be for both its parents and the child. So you do not have any dialogue and do not invoke it. That is why that bill was reformed because it was done with the participation of the entire society, psychiatrists, social workers, psychologists, lawyers, all women's organisations. The majority of the Committee of Fifteen were women, six of the coordinating body of women's organisations, Mrs Spilitopoulou, who is now writing against your bills as a representative of the legal body under Mr Mansis, and that was where the migrating Alice Giotopoulou - Margaratopoulou belonged. Eight women majority in a committee. Why? Because the legislator was aware, Minister, that motherhood is not a personal property, it does not concern the face of the woman, it has a social footprint and content, it is a structural element of both the family and society. That is why I told the committees that it is never even possible for your legislation to succeed at social and sociological level. It is a preliminary failure, because it did not make the dialogue it had to do so that you could gather all the wealth of the Greek society that has been implementing and implementing the most progressive bill both in Europe and in the world, as UN experts have said. That was the first. Second, I...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u175	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u176	I'll be done. Minister, I would like you to tell me if it came in addition to the UN document and the GREVIO document. From what I see on the European media websites, and GREVIO is complaining about provisions of the bills. Shall I now start arguing about 'equal' and '1/3'? What can I invoke? Your MPs, Mr. Athanasios just now, with thirty-five years of experience as a supreme judge? What do you don't want to hear at last? But it's not just that you've had the dialogue with the legislative irrationality...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u177	Please, Mr. Colleague, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u178	I shall conclude, Mr President. Allow me a phrase. Please, I would very much like to finish my thoughts. It is not enough to make a legislative absurdity - Napoleon said in politics that irrationalism is not a disadvantage - you do something else, you come with a legislative improvement to change the content of the Civil Code that is not included in your bill. And I address the Deputy Minister, Mr Kotsira, to the Scientific Service of the Parliament, and I ask the following legal question: is it possible to make a legislative improvement on an article that does not exist in the draft legislation under discussion? The answer is 'no'. And I'm closing up with a quote, Minister. I agree with Mr Kamine that Article 18 of your bill, which says that 'a case which has been finalised so far may now be any of the parents to contribute it, to export it to the court for re-request'. Mr. Kotsira is my question. You realize we're talking about a final decision that produces...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u179	Mr. Comrade, please, finish it up. You've reached ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u180	I ask Mr Kotsira: can final decisions be re-examined in Article 18? I hope, Mr President, that at the last minute the Minister will listen to his own people, not his opponents.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u181	We continue with Mr. Auslonite from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u182	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, it's a very serious job to legislate. In this regard, for family law and its part concerning relationships between children and parents, it is a great burden that you have borne. What must be done by a serious state, a serious government, so that it produces good legislation in society? In this regard, with your Government, self-evidently becomes inconvenient and you have a huge responsibility for this. You have, in my opinion, divided society. You dealt with a sensitive subject of Greek society. Didn't you, Mr. Minister, nomadic commission under the former president of the Ice Bay, Mr. Tent? Did we not set a similar committee on Mr Kontonis? This means that we all consider the matter to be very serious today. These two committees have reached conclusions almost similarly. These committees consisted of people who know this from a scientific point of view, teachers, lawyers, great scientists. You've been handed over to them. What are you doing with it? You were asked before by Mr Lappas, an excellent lawmaker. Tell us! Today, tell us before the debate is closed and we are going to vote. If you didn't have any other things in your mind, you'd adopt it. But their views are not disciplined in party or other purposes. I am referring to the legislative committees. So you didn't like, and behold, the legislation written in your Ministry, using the cutting-up method, you bring it to the vote. Minister, if we were a serious state, if you were a serious government, and if you were a minister who would not have touched him on such a sensitive matter of party purposes, you would have taken the finding of the nomadic committee that you requested, you would have called after the relevant bodies and asked them for their informed opinion. The Legislative Committee, in cooperation with you, would then form the final draft and be discussed in the House - I say this, has said so firstly that Spyros Lappas, who spoke a moment ago - had spoken with the code procedure. You know the process. The parties would be placed on it without any possibility of changing, modifying or supplementing, etc., as is the case today. That's how we do the codes, Minister. This is how serious states and serious governments do. And I will tell you something, repeating the position of my dear colleague Spiros Lappa. Family law is considered as an excellence - and I do not make any mistakes at all, it is called very serious scientists - national law because it is closely linked to national traditions and reflects the core of our society in its time-consuming development. And nobody says it. They are said by Apostle Georgiadis and many others, not by number. That is why you should follow the above procedure I am saying. I'm saying it to say it. You didn't do it and you split society. I have never seen it before - and I have all, to a very large extent, followed all the speeches - such a storm of pressure on Members. So something's wrong. Your people say so too. I have not seen a great passion for the Members of your party speaking. Why? Most of them were SYRIZA and the other parties. Where have so many honourable Members gone? This bill, which should have its core in the child's interests alone, created camps that face the child as a property. A lot of people have said it. In other words, it cultivates an owner - minded attitude in the relationship between the parent and the child. Mr President, we all say this here in this debate. The current family law is considered as a scientific work of major university teachers. Their names have been heard. I was lucky to have a teacher named Aristo-Blue Manesis. It was Magakis, Koumandos, Kasimatis, Papantoniou, Mr Stathopoulos, who has said his opinion publicly. It is less important who had the initiative to amend and reconstitute in 1983, with the famous Law 1329, family law, despite the scientists who placed their scientific stamp. That's what the future historian will look for. Why don't you tell us? We challenge you. Tell us today who you spoke to, which scientific figures wrote this bill, who helped you. That is why the Scientific Service of the House writes to you so much that a Minister of Justice, with what the Scientific Service of the Parliament, should have withdrawn from Parliament. You were told by Mr Xanthopoulou and Mrs Agathopoulos, our Heads of State and Government in the field of justice. I'll repeat a few of them fat. For the meaning of the child's interest, the report by the Legal Service of the House points out - as we did - that it is a vague legal concept. It must be specialised by the judge in each particular case. The non-prohibition of compulsory mediation is inconsistent with compliance with the rules of the Istanbul Convention - you must mention this - which is about preventing domestic violence and violence against women. For the word 'equal', let me not say any more. So many things have been said by your own people. For the right of prior information of the parent who is not yet diligent on ordinary care, the report of the Legal Service considers that it constitutes an unequal treatment of the parent and invokes Article 4 of the Constitution. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will finish by saying that the bill has very serious legal problems. It complicates relations and does not help solve the problems. Mr President, it is not just society that reacts but also the scientific community. We are in favour of conscientiousness, but not forced and horizontal regulation. We are in favour of effective communication of parents and children, but this bill exacerbates the contradictions. It is obvious that he wants to answer your bill, Minister, into political commitments and uses his parental feelings as a smokescreen. I think time doesn't allow me to develop the other part I had in mind and I've recorded it. I wish the government, I wish the scientific community, in the very near future, that the debate and this piece of legislation, which you will vote on anyway, should be changed despite the four losses in terms of your strength, your parliamentary group. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u183	Thank you, too, for the time. Mr. George Logiadis has the floor since Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u184	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, you have achieved the inconceivable, all against everyone, despite the fact that 80% of the divorces today are carried out in a consensual manner before a notary, without time-consuming and costly procedures. In this draft law, they are undermining and creating fierce conflicts of polarisation and war between men and women. It does not find the draft law accepted by Greek society, as it should have been, because it lays down horizontal measures for the conspiracy of children. But not all cases can be the same. The specificities of each case must be taken into account. We will no longer talk about the rights of the child, but of the parents and the rights of the children will fall after the parents. I would like to stress that there is no international convention on the rights of fathers or mothers. But the rights of children exist, precisely because they are vulnerable and require institutional protection. It clearly defines the state's catalytic role in ensuring the rights of children per family case. The current family law is one of the most progressive in Europe with a paedophile and gender equality character. It is fully compatible with the Greek Constitution, with European and international law, and fully completes the parental rights in due diligence with each other. Unfortunately, today's draft law creates ambiguities and arguments for greater judicial disputes at an unjustified and high cost for parents, neglecting the interest of children who until now were the cornerstone of our family law, where the judge assessed on a case-by-case basis, while now the legislator's horizontal intervention in family life pushed parents to resort to the courts. From a pediatric point of view, it will be converted into a "progenic center". The problem today is identified in court practice exclusively. The solution, therefore, when there is no consensual way is to restructure the family courts and strengthen public social structures. In order to be able to implement the law effectively, courts should be staffed with family judges. In practice, and especially in provincial courts, judges are judges without any experience of this, without even being parents. Mandatory mediation before the introduction of the case and not after the trial involving a compulsory public pediatrician. Obligation to contact the judge with the minor child, not depending on his maturity as the wording today, which is completely vague, but from the age of six. Legislation that psychological manipulation by a parent is a miserable exercise of custody and leads to the removal of custody. The draft will in practice be judged as of September by the judgments of the courts without the law being guaranteed, but will be subject to its application by the judge. But who judge? Without experience, without seminars, perhaps without children themselves, will he decide on the children of others? That is why we will see the first decisions to be quite opposing and contradictory to each other. We wonder, what interests does this draft law serve? Some lobby that you were told to be? With Articles 6 and 8, you aim to strengthen private mediation at a great cost to parents. You are creating with this draft law on the law of the courts where too many cases will be accumulated at the cost of parents. The courts will not be able to respond, as we know from the slow practice of the Greek courts. And, in the end, I fear that you will even privatize the judiciary to be faster, more flexible, more effective, in your usual practice and idealism. When there are children, parents may not be together, but they are together, plus, under the same yoke for love, rights and in the interests of their children, they are always "cost-wages". In closing, I should like to address my parents and, if you allow me, please and urge you, our child has been hurt by our separation. Let us get through each other's selfishness and selfishness. Let's look through the eyes of the injured child and say each other about himself: "I was wrong, and I was wrong, not just the other." The best law and the best judicial decision are subordinate to any solution that we parents will give together for our child. In Crete we have the supreme expression 'we deserve', i.e. it is up to our value on the basis of what we know to think, judge and, finally, to do. It puts us before our responsibilities and before the merits of each of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u185	Thank you for the time too. Mr. Giannoulis has the floor from SYRIZA. Please, we'll all be in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u186	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I really am afraid of the elements and the outcome of a long, almost two-day process that should be a model of collaborative perception, division, understanding and effort to seek common places, because it is mainly the most sensitive thing, the most valuable thing that each of us in his life, his child. Mr Chiara, I think you are an honest man, a mild tone politician and one of the ministers that you had so far given the feeling that you are serving the logic of good legislature and do not like the drunkenness of majority arrogance, where the parliamentary majority turns it into an arrogant and dogmatic behaviour of putting the view against every logic. Sadly, though Mr. Lappas expressed this with particular courtesy, elegance and scientific modesty, I am obliged to ask you directly: Mr. Ciara, who wrote this bill for your ministry? The author of this bill cannot enjoy - from the point of view of which I have formed for you - your confidence or your consent. I'll dare say this bill must have come on order. Why, Mr Tsiara, cannot deal with all the problems and flaws of this legislation: unscientificness, lack of consultation, production of the opposite result, should seek a modern society, which is the treatment and strengthening of the position of the child in a separation that by definition creates pains in a child or child? You in a magical way multiply these pains, even exposing children to malicious behaviors of one of the two parents whom you have to conscientiously, regardless of sex. All of this, concentrated on a piece of legislation, leaves no room for doubt that it is not by accident the commonly accepted unprecedented pressure that the members of the Greek Parliament have accepted from what is called "lobbying", in order to vote in favour of this bill even at a threat of political costs to members of the opposition. I guess you can see them and read them. I would like to make an appeal not to fall on the last leaf of figs for the New Democracy, in addition to the deterioration of the parliamentary work and the defence of the misdemeanor of legislation, beyond the graphics and nonsense of the Members of Parliament who, when they cannot support a piece of legislation, resort to Mr Maraveya's logic, which is a monument of Parliament's immortality - against me, I would say - as, in discussing this bill, he gave us his opinion on the Kalograda case. What can I say? I'm surprised. In any case, I believe that it is a sign of responsibility towards both Greek society and children and parents and in the future of this place to give a sign that in Parliament majorities do not treat minority groups by letting them beat their heads on the wall, insisting that you do something that is overwhelmingly far from modern social needs. It is a sign of democratic sensitivity, bravery, honesty and political reserve and for your personal political journey to withdraw the bill. Not everyone can be opposed because they are fighting the New Democracy. We are all opposed, because we defend the general good, which is not only subject to the micro-party purposes of those who have given you this bill to present it to Parliament today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u187	Thank you for the time. We still have three more speakers to close and then go to the rapporteurs. Mrs Karasarlidou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u188	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the government has brought in a draft law for which it maintains that it promotes the interests of the child and that it contributes to gender equality. But is that so? No, it's not. No, it's categorically not. This draft law has brought many controversies and acidifications and has divided Greek society. Extreme objections have been raised and women's and feminist organisations have been opposed. The Hellenic Paedophilia Society, the Society of Family Law, the Association of Judges and Prosecutors, the Association of Greek Sociologists, Amnesty International and many other collectives and bodies, the scientific and academic community, hundreds of European organisations and, of course, the parties to the opposition and Members of the government majority. We have also seen paradoxically and dangerously, I would say, situations. We've seen threats against lawyers and judges. We have seen threats to parties and politicians and we have also seen threats between divorced couples. On an issue that is so sensitive, precisely because it concerns children there should be a climate of consensus, the government has managed to create extremely explosive situations. The relationship between the child and divorced parents is not simple, as is the issue of parental care and custody. They are not matters that can be regulated in a horizontal way and a mandatory way. They require personalised solutions, and where there is a need for judicial decisions, they should, above all, safeguard the safety and benefit of the child. The bill, on the contrary, horizontally imposes conscientiousness, without taking into account the individual factors and the specificities which each case may have. Clearly for us, for SYRIZA, there is undoubtedly the need to address the question of conscientiousness even better, precisely in order to improve both children's lives and the lives of divorced parents. All of us are clearly in favour of conscientiousness, but it is true that in cases where pathogens do not hide and that relations in this former family have had a balance. After all, as many and many have already said, existing family law enables parents to claim the common custody of children if they so wish. Therefore, conscientiousness is already something that is foreseen, something that exists in our country's legislation. Enforcement of compulsory care in all cases, without taking into account factors such as abuse, neglect or indifference of the parent for the custody of children, I would say that it is the worst treatment. You know that it is not understandable to all of us that the assignment of custody of children is a very sensitive issue with huge implications for children's life and psycho-composition and that it is not possible for the judge to decide for himself, because the study of the psychology of people is not the subject of legal science. If, therefore, the Government really wants to serve the benefit of the child, it is a unique opportunity for it to set up family courts which, with the assistance of specialists, child psychologists, child psychiatrists and sociologists, will study each case separately and judge the best interests of the child. But the bill you brought takes into consideration the rights of the parent, but nowhere focuses on the benefit, the preference, the desire of each child. The bill, instead of blindly proposing the same measures for conscientiousness, should create those appropriate structures, those supportive conditions, so as to facilitate conscientiousness in practice and before the marriage is resolved. So to support mothers, families with social measures, so that conscientiousness can be effectively applied in the marriage. There is also a crucial issue concerning abuse cases. This was also a key factor in objections. In the case of a malicious parent, how can it be possible for the court to continue to live with that parent and now also with the absence of the other parent? The imposition of the duty of conscientiousness, even in these cases, until the court ruling comes out, which we know is taking too many years, I would say that it is a very problematic point. Also, the reference to one third of the year that will necessarily be the case will bring more conflicts. It is certain that it will lead parents to more judicial disputes. You say a third of the year. But what time? On the day? The week? On the month? It is an indiscriminate point, because one of the parents cannot take on during the hours of working, i.e. reading, school and other work of the child, and the other taking hours of entertainment. One, that is, the parent, the wife, the mother, of course, will be the food, and the other parent will be the entertainer. Also, as far as the issue of compulsory mediation is concerned, this presupposes the award of the matter to lawyers, of course the parent will pay. We all understand what injustices and what inequalities this can lead to. So since this is to be done, compulsory mediation, then the government must absolutely ensure that it is provided free of charge by the state. The last point I want to raise is that of the changing home, which raises important issues. How will the alternating residence be applied in case parents do not live in the same place or in the course of their lives, will one of the two parents want to change their place of residence for professional reasons or for any other reason? What about the kid's school and his activities? These are very serious issues, which I think the Minister should answer before we go to the bill vote. In conclusion, I would like to say that the conclusion, in which we conclude, is that this bill does not, of course, promote gender equality, is not in the child's interests, it is not ultimately in the process of progress. It is in a deeply conservative direction, it turns us back many years and in practice creates much more problems than it solves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u189	Thank you, too. Mr. Andreas Michaelides from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u190	Thank you, Mr President. Allow me, firstly, ladies and gentlemen, to point out the fact that, with this legislative initiative, the government has once again managed to achieve the impossible. Following the intervention of our Parliamentary Representative and the observation and intervention of the rapporteurs of the relevant UN Commission, it appears that the government is exploring and targeting the country on an initiative which it takes and which it baptises as a'reform of family law'. The sensitive content of the issues, of course, which are dealt with in the bill, as well as the number of interested parties and the size of the social interest, I think - to those of us who are at least in public, a cooling count of data, opinions and rights. First of all, however, they stress to the relevant Minister the need to produce a piece of legislation, which, first and foremost, should be balanced, solve existing problems created by various factors, including the predominant nature of the case-law of the courts and the application of judgments. At the same time, it should also promote the protection of the weakest parties. We can say, at least from the result, that the Ministry and the Government failed to respond satisfactorily to this work. To sum up, the main points of criticism I would say that this failure lies, on the one hand, in the fact that the conclusion of the legislative committee seems to have been ignored in many of its key points, ultimately giving the bill an extremely conservative character. On the other hand, while common diligence is an extremely serious issue and a target, which we support as SYRIZA, the rigid horizon and, indirectly, the compulsory way in which it is promoted through this bill finds us completely contrary. And, as the institutions have heard, this criticism of the conservative and uniform nature that attempts to give conscientiousness is a fundamental ground for objection. More detailed, let me comment briefly on some of our criticisms. The provision of Article 7, not only in the common sense but also in parental responsibility, is also clearly incorrect on the basis of the factual data and extremely counterproductive. After all, this attempt to make a mandatory, in some ways, quantitative equation is not in line with the International Convention on the Rights of the Child. Determination of the communication time of the child, which many other colleagues have pointed out, with the parent with whom he resides in one third, embodied the horizontal, restrictive nature of the bill. This is not linked to the individualised nature to be taken into account in the judicial decision and the need to weigh the specific circumstances of each case. In addition, at practical level, this provision is expected to create many problems. Various provisions of the draft law, in particular Articles 5 and 14, lead to the conclusion that the main concern of the legislator is not, in the end, the interests of the child and respect for its rights, but the achievement of a certain balance between parents or even members of the wider family. It is absolutely true that the criticisms made in many respects overthrow the progressive nature of the legal framework in favour of a parental and unequal one, since the two-thirds of the year seems to be burdened with various obligations even in cases where there are judicially pending cases of abuse. The notion of a coherent framework of public support structures to assist parents and children and judges throughout this process is also a key deficit in the bill. At the same time, of course, I am once again saying its conservative orientation. For all these reasons, the bill remains numerously problematic and does not respond to the real needs of children, but also of parents. It is also a great lost opportunity to promote a flexible and progressive regulation of family law issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u191	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to inform you that, under the decision of the President of Parliament under No 4632/3351 of 20 May 2021, the Subcommittee on Combating Trade and the Exploitation of Human Rights of the Special Standing Committee on Equality, Youth and Human Rights was set up. The decision in question has been posted to 'Parliamentary Transparency' and will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u192	We continue with the last speaker, Mrs Adamou. Here, Mrs Adamou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u193	Good evening, Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, although it is my honour to address Parliament every time, it is, however, regrettable that every time this is an increasingly worse draft law, coming from the New Democracy Government, of course. This time we have to deal with a draft law which sets out very clearly against children and mothers. It is the creation of the Minister of Justice and his team of associates and it is not only a ruthless regression of family law in Greece, but it is also making sure that it destroys the good texts of the legislation, for which - if anything - we should be proud, since the Greek family law of 1983 has in the past been the foundation on which decisive legislative texts, such as the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, were built in 1989. We therefore have one of the most progressive, essentially liberal and child-centered family law. However, this is obviously not the case for you either, Minister, or for the groups you represent, if you judge any of the changes you are trying to introduce. You are trying to replace the central principle of existing legislation, which is primarily about safeguarding the interests of the minor child and resolving any disputes with the right to cooperation and consent, with an endless process of lawsuits and conflicts between parents, a judge not even the judges but the legislator. Your positions on the need for so-called modernisation of Greek family law, based on the standards of foreign law, and the alleged coercion on the part of the European Union, are to the absolute false and to the extent that they are trembling, which I believe your communicationists are no longer able to cover. The modernisation of the scientific community, pediatricians, pediatricians, social workers, lawyers, the Association of Judges and Prosecutors, and many collectives of women with whom you, of course, have not been accepted or accepted to discuss, as with any other group that reacts to this obsolete draft law. In particular, I should like to mention that in a letter from the Paedophiliac Society of Greece - Association of Psychiatrists, Children and Adolescents expresses its deep disagreement with the Ministry's model, as it does not ensure a stable and non-conflictual environment. In addition, arrangements with conscientiousness are not in the best interests of the child. That is why the form of custody must not be regulated rigidly and horizontally, as you define. It's not a five-month-old baby with a 15-year-old child. And this is meant to be one of the differences, it is not just age differences. However, even the women of your party MPs themselves, such as Mrs Giannakos and Mrs Kefaliannis, who tried to highlight the shamefulness of this bill, not only were they not heard but they also received personal fires. In addition, the correspondence of the Greek legal system with other legal systems abroad is at least defective because it refers to societies with a completely different conception of the concept of family, we all know that Union law consists of resolutions, regulations and directives, not of binding decisions at this level. As regards the content itself now of the draft law, I shall refer to a number of points which I find to be somewhat problematic. Initially, in Article 5 relating to the interests of the child and an amendment to Article 1511, which established that any decision by parents on the exercise of parental responsibility must be aimed at the best interests of the child, you added the following: You say that it must be aimed at the best interests of the child served primarily by the effective participation of both parents. At first, therefore, the interest of the child is placed by the legislator vaguely, precisely to enable the judge to specialize. So since the legislator is provided for as a vague concept, he cannot be defined by him on specific, hierarchical criteria, such as the 'primarily' you have set. The regulation therefore poses a serious risk of Greece being accused of violating the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. The UN Commission on Monitoring the Implementation of the Convention expressly states that the interests of the child are not intact and specialises in any particular case. The European Commission has responded, of course. In studying the follow-up to the article, we understand that the criteria for the award of parental care referred to are clearly generic and neglect other important aspects of the child's interest. As a new mother and as a sensitised man, I stress that the role of parents is to safeguard and care for the needs of their children and not the reverse. In Article 7, which refers to parental care, you added the term 'equal', except for the term 'joint'. How, though, is it possible for parents, who, even when living together, did not have equal parental care, do just as much parental care when they are divorced or solve the cohabitation pact? Thus, the term 'equivalent' can be interpreted in a variety of ways, such as equal parental care. We also see something similar in Article 13 on the right of communication, where we see a horizontal arrangement that substantiates the communication time of the child with the parent who does not live together in one third of the total time. But the truth is that this reminds us of Article 1400 of the Civil Code of vindicating part of his or the wife's property after divorce. So, in your opinion, the child belongs to the marriage possessions? Is it classified as parental property and therefore divided in the same way? I'm really sorry, but children are rights-free people and not possessions. In Article 14 on the consequences of the misconduct of parental care, we again have an evaluation crisis of the legislator. But we must take serious account of the current times of justice by the courts. There will be cases where the child will be forced to reside or communicate for two or even three years with the parent accused of domestic violence or of sloppy acts, with all the consequences that this will have. We must all defend this child and every child, because if he escapes the child, there is hope. Unfortunately, however, in your attempt to overthrow your climate and convince about the functionality and usefulness of this bill, you do not deal with the child but you are engaged in communication campaigns of millions and pseudo-scientific research, such as that of parental alienation, which may pose a real danger to children. On the other hand, the majority of the serious responsibilities in this area would conclude that the main problem is the delay in the administration of justice and not legislation itself. It is a problem that, while family courts have already been provided for in 1996, no government has so far made progress in implementing this provision so that decisions are made by qualified judges and scientists in subsidiary roles. It is a problem that no government has made progress in organising and serving social welfare and care structures for the immediate and effective response of similar situations. Your bill, unfortunately, does not solve any of these problems. On the contrary, it deforms the existing functional and effective parts of the legislation, creating only new distorting parts, while the paedophile character of the legislation is undone. The size of the reactions and the number of remarks on the bill by many national and international organisations, other than all other actors in society, such as citizens, scientists and the majority of the opposition, make it necessary to immediately withdraw this bill. At the same time, however, I appeal to all Members to hear their consciences voice on such a burning issue, because I believe that deep inside them, in your hearts, gentlemen, you know what is right and what is not, so that you do not vote on a bill that will undoubtedly harm many children's souls. We are therefore calling for the immediate withdrawal of the bill. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u194	Thank you, Mrs. Adamou. Ladies and gentlemen, I would suggest that we organise the process a little now. First of all, Mr Ragus called for the floor for two minutes as a parliamentary representative. Immediately afterwards we will start with the rapporteurs for four minutes each. We've been here for five days, we've been through it all, but there's gonna be some sort of time tolerance. The Minister will then speak and the procedure will be closed. Here, Mr Ragosi, you have the floor for two minutes, as you requested, for a short speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u195	Thank you, Mr President. One question: Is it possible for a Member of the Greek Parliament to come up to this step, the institutional and historical, would one say, a sacred step and to express the view that it is possible for a good father to be tolerable and compatible while being beaten and abused by his child's mother? Is that possible, Mr. President? And yet, that's possible! The New Democracy MP, Mr Yannis Loverdos, did so. And we waited until the end of the meeting for social and human rights, neither the political nor the democratic, reflexes of the Minister, the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, its leadership. We waited for them to be activated, reacted, brought here to announce and apologize or delete him. And you silence yourself, while the UN has sent you a letter and specifically denounces this correlation of your bill, Mr. Tsiara, with the fears that it will encourage such abuses, behaviours of domestic violence. So do not react while you hear that and have it in front of you, do you give us the right to say that you tolerate it? Mr. Chiara, this is no longer your point, it's in the leadership of the New Democracy. Either they force Mr. Loverdos to come to Parliament, to withdraw this shameful, appalling statement, asking for apologies from Greek society, from the children, from the parents who heard him speak out of these heavy phrases, or the New Democracy should erase it. Otherwise, Mr President, we want to make it clear that if Mr Loverdos does not apologise, and if the New Democracy does not do the first, we will initiate all the procedures provided for in the Rules of Procedure. Because it is not possible - no one, and Members of the New Democracy itself, to say how much more than the rest of the Anti-Population parties and the Greek society as a whole, to tolerate such a position, such a concept, a new attitude, if it is compatible with the bill, cannot be for us, it cannot be for the Greek society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u196	Thank you. We are now starting with the rapporteurs, in particular Mrs Adamopoulou. Mrs Adamopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u197	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the most serious and problematic points of this bill I think we have exhausted them all those who are voting against this bill. They were also underlined by the relevant social and scientific bodies, and they also pointed to you by your own MPs, who categorically said that the child-centered nature of family law is being altered, turned into a genocide and that the bill creates a lot more problems instead of solving them. And, of course, we have all been against concrete proposals, with concrete solid arguments, which have taken away the logic of the bill, all its unacceptable points. And I say this because you will finally have to end your candy and your misleading insistence, Mr Minister, say that we are only here complaining, without any creative intention. In the committee, in particular in the debate on the articles, I made specific points of law and improvements. Which one did you adopt? None. I would also like to mention - because it is a matter of principle - that you have not only targeted me personally with this comment you have made, which you have not yet recalled, it has not yet been deleted from the Minutes and for which Mrs Giannakopoulou alone has denounced you. I am referring to her name, because by mistake I did not mention the previous time, but I simply said'special buyer'. You still haven't recalled. You didn't only target me, you targeted your own executives, because you said they were motivated by personal experiences doing this placement. Personal experiences first of all are private. No one has the right to leak online and anywhere else in public, it is inconceivable to leak each other's personal experiences. But I would like to ask the following question: This bill has been instigated, it has been submitted, as I have said many times, by certain specific pressure groups and the question is what have been invoked by these pressure groups? Did I keep her science? International good practices? They are the ones who invoke their personal experiences in public, online, turning against the mothers, which I have mentioned, yes, there are abuse practices on the part of all sides, but they are the ones that are proactively motivated, those who submit this bill. So you, Minister, then, are inciting uninstitutionally and experientially for this bill. I'll close with two specific comments. Before I refer to this, I would like to say in relation to a position made by Mr Ploiros - he is also legal - that, if possible, this 'equivalent' and 'in common' direction for the judge. It's a law-enforcement provision. Mandatory says it will be exercised jointly and equally. No direction gives the judge to interpret, but obliges him to apply it. It is not domestic law that this provision says that it gives a direction, nor that there is a problematic case-law means that the legislator must come in and establish conscientiousness. We must change the judiciary's perception. This is another issue, and we have also raised it with the family courts. Now, the two points with which I wish to close are in relation to the issue of public consultation, which has been mentioned by you and by too many defenders of the bill that the majority of comments are positive in favour of the bill. A survey showed that more than a thousand twice as many times as "copy-paste" repeats a specific macroskeletal comment. Six specific times repeat themselves as part of the comment as a separate comment from a thousand to a thousand four hundred times each. In other words, the vast support was a thousand times the same school, eight thousand repetitions of the same phrases. Of the fifteen thousand comments, therefore, nine thousand are copying - paste. I shall submit to the Minutes what I say. Of course, the repeated phrases concern the alternating distribution, rotation, etc. I would also like to repeat what Mr Ragus said about this letter, which was notified to the Prime Minister on 17 May 2021, with a clear and urgent recommendation to communicate its content to the Greek Parliament as soon as possible. There was no response from the Office of the Prime Minister and the general public was informed of the existence of this document after a period of forty-eight hours. I'll testify to that, too. Amongst what these UN observers say, in relation to the elimination of discrimination against women and the fight against violence, they express their opposition to the efforts to redefine the best interests of the child and the way that this is described by the draft law, the need for the child's interests to be identified individually and only on a case-by-case basis. Extreme reference is made to the widening of the obligations of the child with whom the child resides, and which are referred to and now include the wider family of the parent with whom he does not live. He concludes, in a recommendation on the amendment of the draft law, to ensure his agreement with our international obligations and that he converts the woman to a woman processor and a food with the presumption of one third. I'll testify to that, too. So I conclude by saying that unfortunately the most problematic points, the biggest gaps observed in family law, have not been dealt with in this bill. We are voting against it. We don't stop our fight to overthrow it. We are calling - and I am ending this - on the judicial officers, when they are called upon to interpret such poorly formulated provisions, such malicious provisions, to do so with great care, with great wisdom, responsibility and sensitivity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u198	Thank you. We continue with Mr. Hetas from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u199	Mr President, thank you very much. Minister, she's not a scumbag. It's a political choice. You insisted too much on this bill. Each piece of legislation is judged in practice. In life there it's captured. In fact, as a Greek Solution, despite our very strong objections, we will vote against it, as we have stressed since our first meeting, not by the first committee. I wish it'd catch a place. I wish he could solve problems. We're afraid he won't do that. You managed, as I said yesterday, to divide - your own parliamentary group - it is your problem - Parliament. You split society, too, though. That's the worst. You separated Greece from women and men. We have terrible complaints of pressure that women are particularly vulnerable to, but also to men, many problems. We filed it yesterday. We have too many reactions, so I don't know if it's worth the risk you've taken. Personal risk, because it will bring your signature. It's not just a bill. It's a bill that reflects in society. Minister, you know very well that because it is not a simple bill, no regulatory framework, no legislation can improve human relations. None. Nothing. None. Whatever Parliament votes, whatever the New Democracy legislature, human relations do not go into regulation. Also, Mr President, I would like to add what we have mentioned and to say to every ton that this bill is not in favour of the child, unfortunately. And that proves to be true. We think and we're afraid the kid will finally pay her again. I will conclude, Minister, with the tragic situation, which we have also mentioned at a personal level since the first meeting we held at the Ministry of Justice, because I happened to have the bill as a speaker. Get out in Article 5(3) ‘regardless of sexuality’. We won't get tired of saying it. You can't take it off. I don't know what Mr. Tendes thoughts he included, really. I don't know what it is that makes you not to withdraw it, not to erase sexuality. I don't know what that is, really. I don't know if there are any invisible or visible forces forbid you from moving on to it. It is tragic, indeed, that the New Democracy should legislate. Yesterday Mr Koumoutsakos told me about your party's founding declaration in 1974, which he is proud to talk about the nation, which talks about a thousand and two. Is that the New Democracy, the great conservative party, as you say, in favour of the family and all that? Is that who you are? Do you put in "regardless of sexuality"? These are unbelievable things, really. It is tragic for the New Democracy to legislate like this. You have lost your ideological orientation. You want to infiltrate a little in the center, you want to go a little bit to the left, you have camps inside the New Democracy, you have Members of Parliament, you have more conservative Members. You're pulling them out on a treaty front. What do you want to pass now? Any patriotic messages? “We put them on. What do we want to go through? A left message? We put them on.’ That's how you do it. You'll tell me that's the policy. Okay! People see you and judge you. So it is not possible for New Democracy to vote for such bills, to vote for a parent ‘1’ and a parent ‘2’, to have such a great sensitivity for LGBTKI, trans, etc., at the same time as it actually shows that it does not support the Greek family. It is not possible for New Democracy to make political exchanges on national issues, such as Macedonian and now say: 'It is just raining, we are doing nothing else. It is raining.’ Make sure you don't understand, whistle indifferently and mock the Greek people. Like the bill that will enter tomorrow, Mr President, either agrees or disagrees. The views on cannabis were expressed, about the bat as we say here, who suddenly is very good, spectacular. The New Democracy will vote for him and bring him to a bill. It's not you. I remember a film by Constantara that his brother had changed and said: 'It's not him, guys!'. You're not the New Democracy! For us it's a matter of principle. The Greek Solution does not make any discounts or reliances on fundamental principles and values. That is why you will be collecting a grand 'no' from us. I'm hanging up with SYRIZA. What are we gonna do, guys, today? Are we going to vote on a roll-call vote or are we not? Tell us, let's know. Mr President, we respect the rules and procedures. I want to believe that we have proved this in practice. Today we are called upon to vote on two articles with roll-call votes requested by SYRIZA. The SYRIZA himself who said "we will not vote again in roll-call procedures, by letter vote" etc. But tell us what we're gonna do. Will you vote? Are you going to leave? Will you stay? Will you think about it? Will you call? Will you send an e-mail? Tell us what we'll do. This is not a serious situation. That's all, Minister. Good luck!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u200	Ms. Konnaka from the Communist Party of Greece has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u201	The JRC throughout the process clearly stated that it supports the amendment of family law for the joint exercise of parental care and for the consultation of the two parents on care matters, which needs to be focused on the child's social needs and interests. But, Minister, even this proper proclamation principle, which we think is necessary and mature to join family law, is undermined by specific problematic provisions of the bill, such as this stubborn 'equality', which in a funny way you are trying to deal with with the legislative improvement you are doing and the 1/3 presumption of communication. Of course, we will also vote against the roll-call vote if it is to remain. What, however, have we pointed out to you, with these remarks, the positions of all the members of the JRC, but also the amendments we have tabled, which neither the Minister has said anything, nor the other parties have? That whatever regulation you do, it will remain an empty letter if it is not accompanied by substantial measures of economic, social, legal support for divorced parents, because, obviously, not everyone is facing the same difficulties in resolving the issue of parental care. And, of course, in order to help this necessary understanding among themselves to make a real contribution to raising their children, this particular aid must also be provided by this society. In fact, some New Democracy Members, in particular the Parliamentary Representative, arrived to be disturbed by the clear position of the JRC, which was that obviously not all divorced parents in the same way. And, yes, we repeat it: it even depends on the way in which the parental relationship with children is regulated by the family's own class position. In the same way, do the workers, the unemployed, the self-employed parents, who are running from morning to night in working conditions that you have all shaped and are going to get worse with the upcoming anti-corruption bill, with the parents who have solved problems, who have the financial capacity to have teachers, assistant staff, who have the financial capacity - if you like - to address themselves to parents' counselling every week, in order to resolve these issues of common parental responsibility? Is the same for a working people's family, after the dissolution of marriage, cohabitation, maintain two homes, and in these circumstances try to share parental care with another family, which, anyway, has these issues solved? And it is precisely because you are all facing these needs of families, divorced parents and on such criteria that you have left them uncovered, so on the basis of the benefit that business groups will have from all this, you are trying to solve this issue too, for example, as you are doing now with the integration of private mediation, effectively leaving the state's responsibility outside this whole process. And, of course, for this need to support the family of divorced parents, the economic and social conditions which, in fact, finally define parental care, were not even heard by the other parties. If you want, any references made have been made to this social dimension. They have confined themselves to presenting, as a cause of gender inequality, the concepts prevailing in society and in family law, in order, in fact, to bury the root of social discrimination against women, who are well aware of how they become gigantic in a society in which social inequality continues. So any references to gender equality by all parties, in fact, seek, as do all the legislations to date, to equate the rights of men and women downwards and not strengthen equal relations between them. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] That is why it is no coincidence that all the other parties have limited the debate on the interests of the child in this infamous personalised approach to divorce courtrooms, which, once again, actually removes the responsibility of society to help meet the social needs, to support the family, to cover the social needs of a child, by congratulating only on the various aspects of the international convention on the protection of the rights of the child, which, although it is possible to cover positively and should also be included in the law, but in fact it often closes eyes to poor issues facing children. Let me reply to a comment made by the Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy, which offends the people and solidarity of the Greek people towards the Palestinian people, in order to acquit the state of murderer, Israel, with which all of you are doing business. It is a challenge, in fact, to move the finger on the JRC which condemns this crime in Palestine, which is being done with the backs of the United States, NATO and the European Union, with hundreds of children and civilians. I'm hanging up. The JRC calls on parents, who are struggling with today's debate, to be able to achieve the need for effective care for their children, so that they can genuinely bloom on equal terms between themselves, to continue, among others, to claim together to fight against the universal safeguarding of modern rights for men and women in stable work, stable working hours, decent working income, measures to protect motherhood and complete state support and care for the family and the protection of children, conditions in which the need to exercise parental care for their children can, in fact, function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u202	Mrs Giannakopoulou has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u203	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have unfortunately found it, but as many times as I have said to the committees, but also to the plenary, it seems that you have no intention at all, Minister, to hear our strong differences, our objections and, above all, our counter-proposals on the problems of the bill, which the Opposition and the vast majority of the bodies have indicated to you, but not only these, and four of your Members, have pointed out. Because Mr Athanasios and Mr Voloudakis were added to Mrs Giannakou and Mrs Kefaloniaannis. And with your responsibility, Minister, it has emerged on a major political issue and on a dispute that was the most important issue to which we should have found broadly strong consensus, just as in 1983 the PASOK achieved in changing family law. And you know what it's for, Minister? It's your concept of legislating, your concept of legislating your government. You have shown no political flexibility. You did not show any desire to listen at all. You have not shown any desire to reach agreement, to compose, beyond minor changes - some positive, but minor, because they do not change the problematic points which we have all shown you - and some sort of legally almost funny ones. So you have a full responsibility. We all told you there was a problem. There is no one who has not recognised the existence of the problem and the need to modernise, move forward, resolve the issue. There is no one in this Chamber who said that 'no, children should stay only with their mother'. Even I objected to you - and I speak sincerely - hoped that at the last minute something would be heard, something you could understand, from getting into one ear and coming out of the other. It's not judged, you know, some ideological placement in this matter. It's not an ideological matter. It's social, it's sensitive, it's family. It's about the kids. It is therefore a lack of sensitivity on your part and a lack of real dialogue with a clear lack of political flexibility on your part, of course, expressing the general policy of your Government, since we have not seen much better in other bills as seriously. Unless, Minister, there are some commitments from your side that some of us are ignoring. It can happen and it looks like it. Greece has therefore been divided on an issue that it should not be. You do not listen or often do that you do not listen to our proposals and answer other things than the opposition tells you. It is your usual and friendly practice not to respond to the substance, but to alleged positions. We asked you to move on to the family courts. We told you there was a solution. No one can blame us for not telling you what must be done. But you responded with misguided attacks on Mrs. Giannakou, Mrs. Kefaliannis, Mrs. Adamopoulou. They were all women. Is it random? I don't know. Answer that, too. In all this laughing dialogue, with the responsibility of your Minister and your Government, unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, and while you are abstaining from the roll-call votes, due to the letter vote and, of course, it is your right and absolutely respected to arrange your position and tactics on such a matter, it is in no way understandable to come to Parliament, raise a matter of roll-call votes and then abstain. Do you think, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, that you can guide developments and what Members of the Change Movement, the KKE, the Mera25, will do? This is reflected in your tactics, a policy which unfortunately degenerates and defuses the institutional functioning of the House. Well, that's a crook. You are a Qualified Opposition. You have exactly the same responsibility as the Government for respecting the institutional procedures, and you are quite rightly complaining to the Government about not complying with the institutional procedures, why does it not, but you come and do the same? So, what does Mr. Tsipras think he is? He thinks he's the leader of the antipopulation group? Does this show us with this attitude or will it guide the MPs? I am sorry, therefore, because our position is clear about how we will move in the roll-call vote. Our parliamentary representative, Mr Scandalidis, told her. We denounce this anti-institutional behaviour and abstain from the roll-call vote. Our position as a Change Movement for Articles 7 and 13 is clear and we are totally negative, so that there is no misinterpretation at all. Minister, I close and would like to say that I am very sorry for the outcome of the debate on such a top issue, which should have been beyond party controversy. But you didn't hear anyone. And no you just didn't hear anyone, but you did - and I say it directly - underground and wicked. You hid things. You lied. You were disguised by bodies - I wonder how you feel - in writing. And not just that. Last incident is the trick you have not even heard from the UN special rapporteurs in the Human Rights Council. He's just been made public, Minister, and call on you to explain himself. On May 17, 2021, three days ago, the two special rapporteurs for the Elimination of Discrimination in Wearing Women and for Violence against Women intervened by letter to the Government. As provided for in their letter, the letter was made public forty-eight hours from 17 May 2021. So the two rapporteurs asked for the letter to be lodged in the House. Where is he? Where's the letter? You hid her. Why? You do not mention it and the rapporteurs clearly express their opposition to Article 5 of the bill we have told you in the interests of the child, in Article 11 on the obligation for the parent to preserve the relationship with the family of the other parent, in Article 13 on the 1/3, the presumption of communication, in Article 14 on the lack of guarantees in the event of abuse and on the final decision, in Article 7 on the joint and equally, in Article 8 on mediation. This intervention demonstrates that the provisions of the bill are directly in breach of international law and should not be voted on by Members. So let us know what you did about this letter. And I would remind you that this was also the case in Italy in 2018, when exactly the corresponding provisions were introduced by Lega's report, which were cut after the intervention of the relevant UN rapporteurs. So we're waiting for answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u204	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u205	I shall conclude, Mr President. Unfortunately, you have worked on such a sensitive subject for moms, for dads, for children. We have tabled our opinion on the family courts. We'll be here very soon on a law proposal. For all these reasons, we will not vote in principle on this draft law. We shall be voting in favour of the few positive provisions. We will, however, vote against, in principle and all the provisions that are firmly opposed to our principles and values.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u206	We continue with Mr Theophilos Xanthopoulou and conclude with Mrs Papadimitriou from the rapporteurs. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u207	Thank you, Mr President. After an exhausting procedure, we finally reach the end with our final comments. I shall begin with the reference made by Mrs Giannakopoulos to the roll-call vote by Mrs Giannakou. It is our inalienable right, of course, and it is your inalienable right to be placed. I understand your anxiety after the differentiations of some KINAL MPs. That makes sense. And I honestly don't know if Mr. Tsipras is the leader of the democratic party, but society has brought him to the head of the democratic party. The elections will be carried out in a simple proportional manner and the responsibilities of the sections of the democratic party are active and, at first level, we will be judged and called upon to make decisions. Mr President, I do not know whether it is appropriate to make an observation that Article 5(3), among the elements which the decision must respect, must include disability. It is a well-established principle that must be described. It hasn't been recorded so far. Look at it if it can be legally covered now. There must also be an explicit reference to disability. I am referring to the amendment number 894/73 that we tabled to resolve the pension problem of teachers made available in 2013. I repeat the request to restore an injustice for people who have been out of service overnight, have returned and this loss of income has to be restored - as far as their pensions are concerned - who have suffered. I think it is an absolutely fair request that the Minister should accept and move on to its acceptance. On the amendment by the Ministry of Justice on the term of office of members of independent authorities. If I understand it well, first of all, you should tell us, Minister, what specific independent authority there is and you want to heal or be general.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u208	He's in two or three.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u209	It can therefore lead to an immediate expiry of terms that have been extended in accordance with the procedure laid down in the law and we are speeding up the withdrawal of the members of the AACC from the beginning, and in any event due to the uniform extension, this extension would be much faster. It seems that for some reason there's a rush. The O.R.D. - O.D....
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u210	This has been voted on, Mr. Xanthopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u211	I say that, in the sense of the amendment, you bring it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u212	A few months earlier...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u213	Here, on the issue of HSY, there is a question that the Secretary-General of the Ministry can continue to perform his duties only by receiving knowledge of operational data, statistics and sizes and without direct contact with the databases, for the reason that there are personal data issues here. I think we will have a very serious problem, because it is precisely the intervention of a person who is not legitimate. As far as the structure of the Prosecutor of Economic Crime is concerned, we have to see that this prosecutor's office has just been formed and responsibility is already being cut. Are we in contact, or do we have the opinion of the judges, the prosecutors?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u214	Of course, he's sent a letter.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u215	Good. That is why we will be waiting for matters to be dealt with. Mr President, as you can see, because I have one final comment to make and I will be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u216	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u217	Minister, you must understand that on the question of discussing the bill, you are in the legislation yourself, you are in a moving sand and any moves that you make are creating other problems. We have focused our criticism on the 1513 'equivalent'. Instead of healing you in the way Mr Athanasios, who is both a legal and a MP and is not influenced by our own views, with 'equivalent', you will definitely want to keep it and go and join 'equivalent' and 'joint' and 'joint' and 1510.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u218	Look out! No, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u219	Mr. Blondopoulos, you don't speak to the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u220	The Minister's talking to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u221	I told the Minister not to talk. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u222	I got carried away. First of all, I think that you cannot make any improvement in the legislative process in an article which is not included in the legislation. From the grammar of 101, paragraph 2, which refers to the amendments, it says that 'the debate on the vote on the articles shall take place successively and in the order in which they have the text of the draft law or the proposal for a law'. So, if it does not exist in the text, we cannot make an amendment. I would point that out in the formal part. But, Mr Minister, I really do not understand this obsession. You have suffered an orchestra of arguments and confrontation from all the wings of the House about this 'equality'. There is a way to get over it, but you leave it there and you let me think secondly that your objective is not equal participation, that your objective is equal participation - and we have said where it opens up - because you are making us with this obsession. Take it back. We've given you all the solutions. I told you before, Minister, that this bill is a moving sand and any moves you make, you sink deeper. How do you respond to this UN document? What are us? Are we a country by nature or are we a country located at the core of the European Union, a developed country, a country that has institutions and a rule of law that operates? With regard to Articles 5, 7, 8, 11, 13, 14: For the six articles, in essence, twelve of the bill - because the rest are the Judicial School and the two quotes - that is, half the articles, you are told by some, who have a heavy opinion - not to say more - that they are suffering. What else do you want to understand? What do we have to do with other witnesses? So you realize that all the criticism we've exercised so far is a good option criticism, documented, but which you are still ignoring. It is clear, therefore, that we have also told the committees that we are voting against at first and that we will now vote on articles which do not really cause a problem in society and are compatible with what we have seen as the rule of law. Thank you for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u223	Thank you. Mrs Papadimitriou has the floor. Mrs Papadimitriou concludes the procedure with the rapporteurs and the Minister remains. We shall then enter the voting procedure. Here, Mrs. Papadimitriou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u224	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, what I found after so many long and long meetings, is that you have not finally come in the mood to help resolve such a serious social problem, which concerns the exercise of parental care and custody of children after the separation of their parents. And no matter how much you claim to be in favour of public custody, every time you invent reasons to disagree. Your objections and disagreements were in three to four points. In particular, the first one was in the words 'jointly and equally parental care'. Another disagreement was that in cases of misconduct, one parent’s final sentence for a number of offences, such as domestic violence and others, was included. The other objection was that recourse to mediation is contrary to the Istanbul Convention to prevent and combat violence against women and domestic violence. On most of these points, the Minister showed a spirit of consensus and brought legislative improvements, such as the same spirit of consensus, before the final text was tabled, after incorporating most of the scientific bodies and all those involved. The wording 'jointly and equally' has been improved by the legislative approach put forward, and with regard to the objection that recourse to mediation is contrary to the Istanbul Convention, this has improved and is now explicitly stated that mediation is not applicable in cases of domestic violence. We solved that, too. With regard to the parent's conviction with a final judicial decision on domestic violence, which is one of the objective criteria for the misconduct of parental care, I have not seen that this is a problem anywhere in the report of the Parliament's Scientific Service. Consequently, most of the objections and suggestions which were heard in the parliamentary debate were accepted by the Minister. So there are no reasons to disagree anymore, at least serious and many reasons. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry always has the initiative to legislate. From there on in the plenary debate, everything has been heard and, indeed, things that were not in relation to the bill. Obviously, they only sounded to create impressions. It has been mentioned, for example, several times, by colleagues mainly from the Officerial Representation that 80% to 85% of the divorces are settled by consensus. Is that a argument? So what exactly do you want to say? That, because most divorces are resolved consensually, should the existing legislation not be changed? Is that what you end up with? Is that an argument not to change the law in force? Apart from the fact that 80% with 85% of divorces are resolved consensually, it is shown in the bill under discussion, because here we do not regulate how to resolve the marriage, here we regulate the relationship between parents and children after marriage or after the cohabitation has been resolved. And clearly there have been domestic differences, which have even doubled over recent years, and these are about to regulate the bill under discussion. Further, some of you have let impressions be created that we are supposedly supporting specific lobbys. What do you mean, ladies and gentlemen? And if you want to say something, say it by names. Why do you leave insinuation? What suggestions are these and what impressions do you let be misled in society? And who's turning the fire on? All those who will vote in favour of the government's legislative proposal? And, to speak legally, the burden of proof you have invoked it by those invoking it. And of course something else very important, because you are misinterpreting the provisions of the bill, unfortunately creating mistaken impressions in Greek society: you are implying that abuses are favoured. Why do you say that, ladies and gentlemen? Not only are they not favoured, but, on the contrary, the framework is stricter and, in the last paragraph of Article 14, an express provision is made for the obligation of the prosecutor to order all appropriate means when the child's physical and mental health is threatened. And I don't understand, do you see somewhere in the bill that Law 3500/2006 is no longer in force that faces domestic violence? I am passing through, and it is a law that the New Democracy brought in and voted for in 2006. Does this result from the legislative text? I believe that this law will always be taken into account by the judges. It adequately covers all cases of domestic violence, gives protection to the victims of domestic violence who can be children, the woman, the father may also be the elderly living inside the house. All this shall be taken into account by the judge who decides each case. So let us not create incorrect impressions and scare society. And as I said before, I have come to the conclusion that in the end you have not come well and that this debate has taken place at least on the part of many of you on micro-political terms. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, the important thing is that children must have their two parents in their lives. This is trying in a fair and balanced way and without any mandatory nature to regulate the bill, and this regulates the case of parental separation. And it is really a brave reform that is introduced today by the Justice Minister and fully adapted to modern needs. The times have changed and the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis has decided to go home ahead. This bill is a positive step, a step forward. We will take this step. You, ladies and gentlemen of Opposition, let's just stay watchers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u225	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u226	Ladies and gentlemen, I will start with two responses which, through his questions, were emphatically inviting me to give Mr Ragussy's parliamentary representative. My reference to the pre-inquiry has nothing more to do with what we all read in the newspapers and online pages and social media. Did you hear a crisis involving how it progresses and what happens? Unless you're confused with what you did in the previous period, when the Deputy Minister of Justice came out of the Arion Ice before a procedure began, as soon as a litigation began, he announced the biggest scandal of the birth of the Greek state! Are you confused? Something's wrong. The second issue. He has tabled the letter, which has indeed been sent by some part of the UN, and which I can assure you that, until now, he has not reached the Ministry of Justice. But we did, and we found her. You know, these documents follow a specific procedure. They are based mainly on the permanent delegation which exists from there and beyond the relevant Ministries in order to provide any answers. But it's so great your joy that you can't hide, on the one hand, because there's already a post on who gave the information and how he carried it, on the other hand, because it's a surprise to me. I have sought the official document and have seen that the document tabled by Mr Ragussis is not the official document. It's taken from there, Mr. Blondopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u227	Where?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u228	Obviously from the specific structure of the UN. So who tries to raise a matter in the country on something that will of course be answered is left to the Greek citizens' judgement. Look, ladies and gentlemen, we will not expose the country. We will respond and our answers will be so specific, so convincing, that there will be no doubt that we are observing international conventions, that we are protecting and what the articles of the Treaty of Istanbul and, of course, we are not leaving any mark. I do not want to remind you again who exposed the country when GRECO and the OECD were chasing us, because you had damaged active bribery. So don’t move the finger to us, when there is no such issue, which you are indirectly trying to shake and highlight. We will give the answers and they will be absolutely convincing. And who has exposed the country from time to time is also recorded. So let's go talk about the bill. It is indeed an exhaustive debate with strong controversy, with different views. But, ladies and gentlemen, things have been heard. In fact, there were expressions or use of words that I do not think should be present in this debate on such a sensitive subject. So let's untie the bucket all along. When the Prime Minister of the country honoured me by giving me the role of the Minister of Justice, I was faced with a number of issues. They were issues relating to the reform of basic legislation, to the trunk, to the criminal, civil, legal, judicial and judicial codes, the codes of judicial officers, which have essentially had a revision for many years. I was faced with the need to incorporate many European laws into the Greek legal order. I was faced with needs that were described in both the way the National School of Judges operate and, of course, the infrastructure itself. And I was faced with issues that have a strong social footprint. Yes, the issue that concerns children and parents after marriage, the issues of child protection companies, the issues relating to the functioning and organisation of legal services were matters that I knew at the very first time that they had a strong social footprint. I was going back to see what was the reality and what had been before, what was exactly as a need recorded in the recent or most distant past, and what were the moves made by previous governments or by previous justice ministers. So I saw that, on the one hand, the problem, which we are trying today with the legislative initiative that is under way and is being completed and with the proposed draft law on which the debate will shortly be concluded, was an issue that many Ministers for Justice have already dealt with, but no one has touched it. Do you know why? Because it is a question that - I knew it at the very first moment - creates a huge social tension, it creates a very, if you like, a big, confrontational issue, since most of the time there are people hurt both on the one hand and on the other. The child is usually not in this equation. We're talking about wounded parents for completely different reasons. For another reason, fathers, for another reason mothers. But the question is this. Did anyone have to see this thing in detail, try to approach it, give it a solution? The easiest thing would be for me, you know, to follow the previous practice, to do nothing. Nobody did anything. I'm sorry, I forgot. SYRIZA's previous government did. He made a legal committee. There's also a finding. But when the reform took place and another Minister came in, he said, "I disagree, I do not want to shake it". Does that not show itself how sensitive and special it is? Do you have the impression that I suddenly woke up one morning and said 'I will legislate to create a problem towards one side or the other, towards one or the other parent'? Do you think this could be my intention? I think that no logic and even little morality would allow that. And you know it very well. On the other hand, I have tried to get in touch with many people who, in any case, had something to testify on this matter, to speak to many scientists in the area and, of course, to set up a legislative committee. You come and give me a break because not all the agencies have been heard. Do you really know that the responsibility for hearing the bodies is the responsibility of the Legislative Committee? Do you think I'd listen to the Legislative Committee on my own? The Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, on which you are abdicating me, because I have not adopted its full amount, is the one which has decided which bodies to listen. Unless she did not hear some bodies are bad, but because she did not adopt her absolute, complete finding is good. You have to make that clear to me, too. From there on, what you need to know is that from the eleven articles in the finding that were actually delivered we adopted the five and half of them, and we built on these specific articles some specific improvements, which were ultimately proposed as a draft law. In fact, I'll tell you that I don't know if what happened to this bill before. For me personally is the ninth bill I legislate as Minister of Justice. But it is the first time that, precisely because this issue is of particular sensitivity, precisely because this matter was known to me to be through pain, through the need for humanity, I tried to incorporate as many observations as were made at all levels in the drafting of the bill. I called the Justice Department twice the representatives of all the agencies. I asked them to put together a bill which in no way has an ideological or political sign and I even told them that I do not want the glory of this bill. "Let's all go together and make a bill." First of all, in the positive expression that has been made - I repeat - at the two meetings that we have had with the representatives of the parties and with the expectation - I expect that proposals will be made, unfortunately what I can tell you, ladies and gentlemen, is that my expectation has been disproved. Do you know when these meetings were held with the parties' representatives? Last year. In November, I think it was the second, if I remember well, or early December. In fact, a month had elapsed on the basis of the text which was given, in order to discuss it and to bring it together. So you come to me today and you resign me, you resign the Ministry of Justice, the government that makes decisions on a bill that has not heard the views of others, has not heard the views of the institutions. Where are your opinions? When did they get filed? I really want to figure it out. And tell me, in order for everyone to understand it, through these indisputable elements that I quote to you, whose responsibility is that we do not co-operate together with a bill today? Is it mine or yours? I think that all Greek citizens who may listen to us are very easy to understand and to draw their conclusions. It is very easy to find the pre-formative reasons, in order to refuse to contribute to the solution of a genuinely great social problem which, if anything, with the exception of a few exceptions, was recognised by the vast majority of Members who have spoken and spoken, regardless of parties,. Is there a problem, ladies and gentlemen? Apparently there is. Are the children working in this conflict between parents after the divorce after the breakup? I do not think anyone can question it as a fact or as a possibility. It is something - I imagine - that we all have it in mind. But wasn't it a genuine historical opportunity for our political system and for all the parties to co-formulate a bill by sending a message of unity to society and not a message of division, as it eventually comes out of the result today? This historic opportunity, unfortunately, has been lost. And we have lost it - I repeat - by putting everything that has been done at the debate table, all the facts which are not in dispute. Unless you tell me you now want me to change the bill in one day, which is supposed to be forming two years ago. Then, obviously, we're doing something wrong. There's something we don't understand. The question, therefore, is that, ladies and gentlemen, in order to be able to somehow, since the parties were not finally involved, to formulate a bill which would have been the most likely ones, I will tell you that, following the public consultation, we have received a number of comments from the Association of Judges and Prosecutors, from bodies of independent, third parties, from feminist organisations, from the comments made to us by the State Secretary of Labour, responsible for family matters and for equality. And I will say to you, of course, that even in the first debate that took place with the party rapporteurs at the Ministry on the spot I received most of the comments that had been made. So when we continued here in the House debate, you know very well that we have received a number of the comments made by colleagues there too. And when the conclusion of the Scientific Committee arrived, in exactly the same way, we come to incorporate many of the comments made by the Scientific Committee. Can you tell me, when did you see this again in a bill? And I am saying this in order to show you that the effort that has been made was completely honest, without hiding all these inaccurate and unacceptable things that have unfortunately been expressed by many here, from this Step. Do you, ladies and gentlemen, see any mandatory diligence in the bill? Do you see any alternating residence? You know, the finding of the prefecture was talking about alternating residence. Then, if we brought this finding, would the alternating residence be good? Would it be acceptable? I'm asking, because when you argue about something specific, you have to keep that particular one as a course. If it is ad hoc that one scientific union does us, because it says what we believe, but the other scientific union is missing, because it does not say what we like, you realize that this is not a sign of consistency. And I say this because only if you see how the bodies have been placed in the invitation here, in the Greek Parliament, at the hearing of the bodies, I am sure that at least on the basis of common sense - and I think that all citizens can refer to the video of this House - the tens of the seventeen, eighteen who came were positive. Two, three were in a logic 'is positive, but we make comments' and some were negative. However, one of the scientific bodies opposed to the bill takes the title: "Scientific bodies are opposed to the bill" and the other who is of unknown value and prestige and, of course, actively participates in the part of dealing with any problems for the child is obviously ignored or put aside because it does not match what we say. This is illustrated by the fact that the Association of Judges and Prosecutors, who are the lawmakers, said that it is a proper bill and this time it is not taken into account, while as many times as were opposed to proposed bills, were, in fact, the koruna of the arguments you put here, as of course many others had to say something serious and contribute to this process. However, I think that there is the contribution of a body that you should have taken much more seriously into account, and this body, ladies and gentlemen, is the Citizens' Counselor. Do you know how many reports and what frequency and how many letters the Citizens' Counselor sends to the Ministry of Justice? I can assure you that, every three months, we have a letter which asks us to adapt the legislation, since Greece, unfortunately, is in the presence of tens of convicts from the European Court of Human Rights on matters relating, of course, to a parent's time of communication with his child. So what did we do? How do you imagine the whole conversation emerges? What is the child's interest, the vague legal concept, which lawyers are taking here and for which they are constantly discussing? There is no doubt that the vast majority of all scientific studies say that children growing up with the physical presence of both parents better shape their personality. If we leave this beginning, we don't have to talk. But if we accept this principle, we are looking to find out how to secure this treaty. That's what we're trying to ensure with the bill. What's the big bill doing? Together and equally. The main comment throughout the previous debate was that 'equivalent' does not exist in 1510. So we're here to put it in 1510. Yes, that was the recommendation of the Scientific Committee of the Parliament. This is the truth, although the debate that took place was that "equal" within marriage is unnecessary and self-evident. However, since the case law had to follow substantially when there was a transition from the in-marriage period when the two parents decided not to be together, we obviously had to adapt it and do so. So when we did this, despite the fact that the committee was set up, another matter arises because it is not an amendment, because it is an article which was not in the debate, and it is possible to regulate it in this way on the basis of what the Scientific Committee of Parliament supports. So, 'jointly and equally', ladies and gentlemen, do you know what it means? It means that both parents will be able to contribute to the child’s life to the part of parental care. Another huge confusion exists. Most of you are confusing parental care by diligence. Don't you know that parental care is a superior condition? Don't you know it involves custody? It includes the issues of the management of the child's property, the representation of the child. The subject of custody is a part of parental care, which is regulated in another way.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u229	Here we are all lawyers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u230	Sure. So you know, I guess, and I'm saying it...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u231	That's enough.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u232	Yes, but can I tell you what's going on, Mr. Blondopoulos?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u233	Wait a minute, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u234	Do you know what the matter is, ladies and gentlemen? It's that you come here and leave your colleagues...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u235	Mrs. Giannakou told you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u236	Ladies and gentlemen, let the Minister speak a little. You've done it. The Minister will say so now, and we will proceed with the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u237	I say it is inconceivable in that sense. Let him be omitted.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u238	I understand you, but there's nothing we can do. The process is a process.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u239	You have not protected the other speakers, however, Mr Xanthopoulou. That's the point, because they came and said here that "equal" means an equal, alternating residence. Where did you see that written? I ask again: where did you see it?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u240	You're not listening. If you heard them, you'd understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u241	When there's a particular... Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u242	Ladies and gentlemen, please. Minister, if you'll excuse me for a moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u243	Ladies and gentlemen, with great respect, I have listened to you with complete opposition to what you have said. If you think this is a process, you're wrong. If you don't like them, you can't listen.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u244	Minister, may I have a moment? Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister says his opinion, as you said before in the process all the others. I would ask you to listen to him. That concludes the procedure and you have the opportunity to vote. I would ask you very much to complete the process nicely without any problems. So you will listen to the Minister. If you don't want to hear him, you can do something else, but no way to interrupt the Minister, please too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u245	Thank you, Mr President. So I keep going. An issue was raised about the fact that the bill does not provide for issues of domestic violence. In fact, I have heard the amazing thing from Mr Tsipras, the former Prime Minister, that I am also a misogynist and another term that has probably adopted him for other reasons. Did you not see all these interventions and the adjustments we made with clear, explicit references to the Istanbul Treaty? Do you not know that even the last window that had been left and which was rightly referred to as concern by some colleagues, of course, about going to mediation, was an issue which, perhaps, created issues and we closed it with the last legal intervention, which I announced to you last night? I do not know what else to say, ladies and gentlemen. And this is a completely closed matter. And don't confuse the fact that in any case, there's the provision of non-communication with the parent, who's abusive and no such matter, and that the prosecutor can even consider an open case, without having finished. These are issues described in the bill. Are we ignoring all this? You come here and tell me that we in this bill are creating favourable conditions in order to have domestic violence and to break the Istanbul Treaty. If you prove it to me, I'll accept any change. But if you tell me just to listen to it, without seeing the bill, the adjustments and the changes we have made so far, it is obviously an opinion that may be heard and shaped, but the Greek citizens will judge exactly what is happening and what is happening. From there on, the fighting presumption of 1/3 of the year was another topic and indeed a reason why SYRIZA asks for a roll-call vote. Yes, sir! Fighting presumption, you lawyers, Mr. Xanthopoulou, what does that mean? It means commitment? Does it mean commitment to the fighting presumption? Does it mean that 1/3's time is tied up about the relationship and communication with one parent? Does that mean? Ladies and gentlemen, this is an incredible hypocrisy. Since you say I'm not a legal person, and so I don't know them well, I was expecting you to be legal, at least the legal conditions to be able to explain them. And I say this because it is very simple: Fighting presumption is just to shape a philosophy. What are we trying to do, ladies and gentlemen, although I am going to another matter now? With this bill - I have said it too many times - we are trying to shape a different culture, not to hurt the child in this judiciary of parents who arrive to the end, to understand that parents do not have to go to court, find them among themselves or even to reach mediation. Now, for mediation, I obviously don't have to say anything. There is no European country that has not adopted mediation. And, of course, it would be, at least, positive for all my fellow Members, to see what I myself tabled to the House, on what is happening in the law of almost all European countries, but also a very serious job done by one of the JRC colleagues - I think Mr Synthrakis - who saw and looked at exactly what is happening in the case-law of all countries and then see where Greece is and what steps it should take. Will you tell me that because European countries have a more advanced, more advanced law, we must do the same? I will tell you that when there is a problem, you try to solve it and try to find the best practices. He's trying to find the right example, he's trying to figure out where something is going on and he works in the best possible way. And that's why it's really about the JRC - you know - the distance between us and the JRC is huge, it's abyss, chaos. We don't have to say that. But his attitude to the bill - regardless of whether he is voting for it - was a responsible attitude, because...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u246	But, Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u247	Yes, Mr Heta, because he recognised the problem and the need for changes. He does not vote for it, as you do not vote for it, but I cannot say that. Because the recognition of the problem and the fact that we need to take a step right now, I do not think it is something that only concerns us or the small world of the political system, is about society itself. [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[To enter page 382a]] But when views of the press are taken that 'big interests' or 'friends', I do not know what you said, of Maximus, Prime Minister, have dictated this bill, I would like you to name them. If anyone does not name it and claims it, they will be accountable to Greek citizens. For me, ladies and gentlemen, despite the fact that I repeat the approach we have taken and the starting point from which we started was simply the interest of the child, whatever contact I had with unhappy people, with sad people. They were neither financially sound nor with expressions of interest, as I unfortunately heard from some of them from this Step, nor with the exception of political leaders. And I am very sorry that the debate has gone in this direction. It is a pity to talk about such a sensitive issue, about the protection of the child and about how to help it grow with the physical presence of both parents and find out a whole range of issues that will lead us somewhere else rather than voting for the bill. Yeah, obviously one had to find the pretext. I understand that, and I understand it. There is also policy on this, which I also understand. However, the point is to say at least elements or to present data which are true. If we simply come here to find the excuse to vote against something, it is likely that this argument is not only reasonable but is not true. From there on, we're somewhere else. And that's what I think is mostly educational for all of us. It's not about me personally. Some were hidden behind the term "family courts". Yes, "family courts"! When did the "family courts", Mrs. Giannakopoulou? 1996. Do you remember which government was in 1996, 1997, 1998, 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2009, 2010, 2011? Do You Remember? Why didn't you do it? Don't you know that there are family departments in the big courtrooms and provincial courts in the country? Don't you know that's where 70% of cases are being tried anyway? 70% of cases of this type, involving parent and child relations, are avenged in the country's major prototypes and appeals. Can a provincial court formation withstand a family department? You can't know that very well. Seeing the extension to an appeal level, as it has been heard at some point, yes, it is something we want to see. However, this will go hand in hand with the digitisation of justice, together with a reorganisation, in particular with the recruitment of judicial officers, where there is the big problem, and with the reform that is being attempted in a context of pre-selected reforms, which we have planned and implemented - step by step. Do you think that's how magically we'll move the finger and make "family courts"? But does not having 'family courts' mean that we must not solve the problem? How do you understand that? I really don't get it. Should we leave this in the time of history, in the drawer that you had the conclusion of your own nomadic committee, ladies of the Officer's Response? Let it go! If that's the logic, of course we should leave it. But we will also tell Greek citizens that we are not capable, we do not have the courage to see, analyse and deal with a subject that is a huge social problem. Because that is our responsibility. That sounds like great things. I have heard political leaders speak of 'child-watch', 'child-width', 'child-widow', 'had-half'. Ladies and gentlemen, it takes a little attention. As I said from the outset, it is a really sensitive social issue. If the approach is made in terms of micro-policy, I am sorry to say, or even populism, we are all making a huge mistake and we are sending a very wrong message to the whole society. As I said at the outset, it was a great opportunity to consult, but it was lost. I do not know whether and when such an opportunity will be presented again, but unfortunately this opportunity has been lost. That's the reality. The point is that we know that in this way of reforms there is most of the stress, there is denial, there are issues which will also create the real reason for political confrontation. The question is that, if not at the end of the day but at a certain depth of time, it turns out who was right, who did the right thing and who stood on the right side of history and choice. That's the reality, and I think we all know it. And to get this over with, I'm not a lawman. I have the full sense and consciousness that the effort made was completely honest and I am also convinced that it is in the right direction. To find any of you the reason to refuse or vote against the bill, I repeat that I will understand it in the logic of political feasibility. But hiding behind words, behind terms or behind an attempt to distort the attempted, I would say, a reform proposal, I would say to you that it is something that Greek citizens can rather easily judge why we are doing so and why, in any case, we are not serving it. It is everyone's right, the Greek citizens are judging us, the Greek citizens can understand who is trying and who wants to change data, confront and solve problems and who finds the pretext or the reason, in order to deny it, mainly for reasons of micropolitical reasons, without wanting to share either the political cost or - much more - to take the responsibility of a more general internal turmoil. Because if you want us to be honest, you know that and I know that there were too many colleagues from all the parties who had a different view. If the whole logic was how we would cost two New Democracy colleagues who had the courage to say their own different view, why the New Democracy is a democratic party, that does not justify the fact that we should be together within our own party and not leave the voice of the different voice. On a social issue which has nothing to do with politics, you realise that the approach of each of the Members of Parliament may be different, I would say, is quite different. But our weakness, I repeat, is to emit a firm pedagogical message in society, despite my own efforts - it is registered, so it cannot be denied - I think that in itself it is the proof that we still need to take a number of maturity steps. For the amendments, I will say that the amendments are not accepted. I'm just saying it, so I've said it and it's practically complete. In any case, most of the things you have submitted, ladies and gentlemen, are not about the Ministry of Justice and you know that very well. You realise that they must be submitted to the debate of the Ministry's draft law to which you refer. From there on, the effort we made with the legislative improvements was in many different directions. In this effort, which is being completed today, after a very great deal of trouble, after almost a year and a half, an effort on this issue, as I said earlier, I personally feel that we have done our duty. If you are wondering who the terrible, and terrible, and bad people who have drafted the bill and helped it, look to your left, are the seconded judges at the Ministry of Justice, excellent scientists, people who are very consciously serving their role and doing their utmost, having knowledge and experience from such issues, to bring the best possible legislature. If you question them, I understand that you will have your own word too. Obviously the debate on what it means by roll-call vote and, indeed, in an absolute contradiction between the Chief of Officerial Opposition, who on the one hand told us that he wants all of his Members to be here, but when it is for roll-call vote he leaves, you realize how bizarre a climate and how paradoxical he can create. And I say this because you cannot cause roll-call votes and leave. It is good to be here, especially in this bill, all the MPs, to deny all those who, on their own, speak with collectives, with institutions, were in favour of the bill and to know all Greek citizens who are consistent, who moves in the direction we need to legislate, safeguarding the true interests of the child, relaxing from suffering human souls and giving the true sense of love to all those who really need it to go to life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u248	Minister, I would like to tell you that colleagues have brought us an observation, which is legal, for a change of title. You want to report to be recorded?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u249	It became a legislative improvement, a change of title in Article 6: the "Intermediation" is removed and it comes in "In the event of disagreement". It is at the suggestion of the Communist Party of Greece, as I see in the note here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u250	The debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Justice: "Reforms on relations between parents and children and other issues of family law" is hereby concluded. We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles, the amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u251	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u252	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u253	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u254	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u255	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u256	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u257	Consequently, the Law of the Ministry of Justice: "Reforms on relations between parents and children and other issues of family law" was accepted in principle by a majority. We are entering the vote on the articles and the amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, Articles 7 and 13 of the draft law have been applied for a roll-call vote by Members of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, whose text is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u258	I will not read out the list of signatories, because due to the special circumstances, we believe that there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for its submission. We are therefore adjourned for ten (10') minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u259	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. An electronic roll-call vote will take place on Articles 7 and 13 of the draft law. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u260	I would like to inform you that letters or fax numbers have been sent to the Bureau by colleagues, pursuant to Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure of the House and the decision of the Conference of Presidents of Thursday, 24 September 2020, which state their vote. These votes will be taken into account in the count, which will be followed and submitted for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u261	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u262	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the roll-call vote. Articles 7 and 13 of the bill have voted 176 Members. Preliminary ruling — High Court of Justice In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 156 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', they voted 20 Members. 'Commerce' voted no one. Article 7 was therefore accepted by a majority. Preliminary ruling — High Court of Justice (Queen's In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 156 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', they voted 20 Members. 'The present', he voted no one. Article 13 was therefore accepted by a majority. The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows: Reforms concerning parental and child relations and other issues of family law.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u263	On the vote of the rapporteurs and speakers, following the conclusion of the roll-call vote, we are voting on the remaining articles and the amendment to the bill. The rapporteurs and the special speakers are requested to submit to the Bureau documents with their votes on the other articles and the amendment, the farewell article and the entire bill, in order to be included in the Parliament's official minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u264	Following the conclusion of the vote, the draft law of the Ministry of Justice "Reforms on relations between parents and children and other issues of family law" was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and of the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u265	I would ask the House to empower the Bureau for its ratification of the Minutes in its entirety.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u266	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-20-S1-commons.u267	With the consent of the House at 19.15 the meeting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, May 21, 2021, at 10.00, on the subject of Parliament's work, legislative work: only debate and vote at first, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment: "Production, export and disposal of finished hemp products of the kind Cannabis Sativa L containing more than 0,2% tetrahydrocannabinol (THC)" according to the supplementary agenda distributed.
