ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-24-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICE: In accordance with Parliament's 23-11-2021 authorisation, the minutes of its PRACTICE meeting were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau on Tuesday 23 November 2021 with regard to the vote on all draft laws: 1) ‘Procedure of the Protocol between the Governments of the Hellenic Republic and the Republic of Serbia on the application of the Agreement between the European Community and the Republic of Serbia on the readmission of persons residing without authorisation signed in Brussels on 18 September 2007’.]] This will refer to the European Children's Protection Day from Sexual Exploitation and Sexual Abuse. The 18th of November has been established as a European Children's Protection Day by Sexual Exploitation and Sexual Abuse. It was adopted on 12 May 2015, following a decision of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe, on a recommendation from the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Every year the Council of Europe's campaign for this day focuses on a different subject. This year's European day aims to make children's confidence cycle really safe. According to the definition of the World Health Organisation, child sexual abuse is considered to be the participation or exposure of children and adolescents in acts of sexual content, motivated by adults usually related to care or intimacy with the child. Sexual abuse involves various forms, whether or not in contact, from exposure to demonstration, obedience and precarious acts to rape and incest. pornography is yet another form. Direct and easy access to cyberspace has allowed the rapid development and dissemination of pornographic material, while at the same time it makes it difficult to capture the perpetrators, who through the anonymity offered to them by the Internet release their most extreme desires. With the appearance of the coronary, the abuse of children through the Internet seems to have increased dramatically. In addition, the required quarantine as a measure to limit the spread of the coronary contributed to increasing other forms of child abuse, as it extended the stay of children at home along with their potential victims. While many believe that children are sexually abused by strangers, the truth is that most of the time the perpetrator is a person who comes from the surroundings, with which children are emotionally connected, and that is why they find it so difficult to reveal what is happening to them. It is estimated that 1/3 of the children who have fallen victim to this situation will never confess to anyone. According to the Council of Europe's pan-European campaign, about one out of five children are victim to some form of sexual abuse. That is why we need to teach children their exclusive right to their bodies and thus protect themselves not only from strangers but also from their surroundings. In most cases of abuse, children are trapped, blackmailed, misled and psychologically pressed. Abrupt of this, as well as the fact that complaints often come in cold time, that is very much after any incidents, is that few children have physically forensic findings and only an indication of what happened to them is their word when they find the courage to reveal it. Child abuse has long-standing consequences for their health and well - being. Children - victims have depression, anxiety, eating disorders, sleep disorders and learning difficulties. Society needs to take action to protect children. In recent years, our country and the whole of Europe have passed laws and conventions to defend children's rights. But the important thing is to implement the laws in practice. As far as child pornography is concerned, since material is moved from country to country, it is necessary to cooperate with the prosecution authorities of the Member States of the European Union together and with Internet service providers in order to identify the perpetrators and reduce the phenomenon. With regard to prevention, measures such as sexual education and the learning of the rights of the child should be part of the education process at all levels of education. And here, I would like to congratulate the Minister of Education, because since this year at all kinds of kindergartens, primary schools and high school in our country, the class of sexual education has been taught through the institutionalised skills workshops. In addition, the coordinator for a number of years of the "ENA" campaign at the PENTE and the Council of Europe's collaborator for the prevention and treatment of sexual abuse of children, Elena Raptis, is in collaboration with the Ministry of Education in order to introduce a relevant educational programme through experiential teaching, aimed at pupils and nurses in kindergarten and the first four grades of primary school. The staffing of the schools of the country by psychologists and social workers is an important tool in dealing with the phenomenon. The fact is that during the quarantine children - victims who stayed at home did not have many opportunities to seek help. It is very important that schools remain open, in order to support the learning process and psychosocial development of children, the learning process and the psychosocial development of children, but also to have children - victims of the opportunity to contact a competent person, such as a psychologist or teacher, who will provide them with appropriate psychological support and cooperate with the social services of the state, the judiciary and the police, in order to take action. The continuing training, therefore, of all the above involved actors and the awareness of the whole society is just as urgent as ever. Thank you very much. The Prime Minister of the country now has the floor, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-24-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today's event is certainly the European Children's Day from Sexual Abuse and Exploitation. I, too, wanted to be with you today at this important meeting, to add my voice to the effort to formulate a national strategy to address this extremely painful social issue. The cause of today's meeting is the really threatening statistics that are unfortunately on all other days of the year. Our aim should be to draw up a national action plan incorporating and unifying all our policies on this huge issue. As the Vice-President has said, today one out of five children in Europe is the victim of some form of sexual abuse, and unfortunately this applies primarily to the most vulnerable children: disabled minors, unaccompanied refugees or children who live on the social margins for various reasons. It particularly shocks the fact that a very large proportion of cases of sexual abuse come from adults in one way or another in the narrow environment of children who are being abused. The stereotype of the unknown who offers candy to children, unfortunately, does not respond to the facts and the statistics, and it is indeed creepy that in the end a very small proportion of these incidents, only 2%, is estimated to reach the authorities one way or another, because sexual violence against minors is unfortunately a blatant crime, and especially when sexual abuse is certified as we know, in particular, by medical reports, many of which are negative for various reasons, such as the mediation of a significant space between the examination and the incident which is being reported or, of course, for other reasons, as abuse does not only involve rape. Of course, we have no doubt that there are still inertia and stereotypes in Greek society too. The first leads to impunity, while the second leads to guilty darkness. In these strangles, which are often magnified by the confusion between services and polynomialism, the national plan for protecting children is responding to sexual abuse and exploitation. It is an integrated action programme in line with the Lanzarote Convention, the Council of Europe and the European strategy drawn up by the European Commission. I believe that this is a genuine national effort which should have as the foundation the zero tolerance - I repeat: zero tolerance - to sexual violence against children, because the protection of minors is not only a self-evident obligation for the state to shield future adults from extremely painful injuries that will bring to their entire lives and not just a policy that ultimately enhances and disciplines social behaviour in a country. It is an essential, bold democratic intervention, which enriches modern democracy in the field of rights, eliminates inequalities, stimulates the cohesion of society and frees its powers. It is, in other words, a national priority with which we must - and I am sure this will happen - draw up all the political forces of Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate today, as well as the consultation it will follow, will demonstrate very clearly all the complex aspects of this important challenge. That is why let me just three remarks: firstly, the action plan we are going to talk about today is holistic. Secondly, it requires a central organization and a broad social acceptance. Thirdly, it is a wider turn to critical problems of the time. I will therefore note that the eleven lines of the plan are restructuring the existing structures and functions as a whole. To dwell in particular on the National Observation Management Protocol, which will clearly define the roles of all the actors involved from judicial and prosecution authorities to social workers and by recording every incident it will be communicated to all agencies so that they can be coordinated accordingly. In turn, the National Recording and Monitoring Archive of Abused Children will facilitate the identification and follow-up of actions per incident. Moreover - and here I would like to pay very great attention to this - it will prevent people with a deserving past near minors, since, from now on, everyone involved in one way or another with children should have a white record of sexual violence offences. It is really unthinkable that we still do not know today as a state who are dealing with children, for example in the field of sport, and that in the past they have in any way been subjected to behaviours that might make them suspected of repeating incidents and actually becoming the victims themselves in cases of child abuse. In the same direction, the obligation of all the child-related public and private bodies to appoint a child-responsible person responsible for child-responsible protection is laid down in order to immediately forward complaints to the authorities and to enable him to take preventive action, and it is very important that the provisions which exist in the context of the overall codification effort undertaken by this government and to codify and tighten up. I would like to remind you that our legal framework has only recently been strengthened and with the recent changes in the Criminal Code these offences have been committed. Their limitation begins - and this is important - since the victim's adulthood, in order to extend the time that they can be denounced. Prosecuting is now self-prosecuting, and the penalties involved have increased. Child rape leads to life imprisonment. But no such attempt, which ultimately concerns society itself, can succeed unless it passes through. And that is why a large information campaign is necessary and will seek to activate all of us: the adults, who must be more informed to detect these abuses around them, but also to have the courage to break the wall of silence especially in smaller, closed societies and to report these incidents in good time and in good time. But, of course, children themselves, who must know their rights and also have the knowledge and courage to be able to speak to their elders. I believe it is very important that from this year on to two grades of primary school, in the third grade and in the fourth grade, in the second grade of high school, the class of sexual education is now being taught in the context of skills workshops. Ladies and gentlemen, the course of this five-year national plan will be supervised by the National Coordinating Committee, with executives from the relevant ministries and bodies offering this sector. And I would like here to welcome the important work that has been done in this direction by the Ministry of Labour, especially by the State Secretary responsible, who has been very sensitively involved and will have an important role to play in the implementation of this project. But centrally, because it concerns many ministries, it will be subject to the Minister of State and its head will be a Member of Parliament who has many years of experience at national and European level in actions focusing on the child, Helena Raptti. I would like to thank her for the great work she has done over the years in this area. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I close by pointing out that this initiative is not individual. On the contrary, it is placed on a bow of our social measures in favour of human rights and their defence, next to those against race and domestic violence and against bowling, to protect unaccompanied refugees and, of course, to the very important national plan for people with disabilities. These policies will continue unbelievably. Because, as we have said many times, there is no economic projection without social cohesion. There is no welfare in the state without prosperity in the citizen and there is no collective success without personal sensitivity. Our democracy asks us to choose its strong voice against guilty silence. And that's what we do, much more when the voice he calls us is childish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-24-S1-commons.u3	Thank you very much to the Prime Minister of the country Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis. Members of Parliament who are nominated by the groups will now be given the floor. I call for the first step, on behalf of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Mrs Raptis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-24-S1-commons.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today is a day of celebration for the protection of children. Our children now have a strong ally, the Prime Minister himself, who, with his sensitivity and practical interest, has announced a comprehensive framework of protection for the prevention and treatment of child abuse. I feel joy, excitement and optimism as all the conditions are created to ensure that our children are safe. I would like to thank you, Prime Minister, for your full support for all the years in the fight to end child abuse, and for your initiative to create a National Action Plan aimed at adapting institutional functions in the direction of child-friendly procedures, quantitatively reducing cases and increasing cases mentioned by the competent authorities. On a pan-European level one out of five children is victim to some form of sexual abuse. In Greece, the figure is 16%. When nine out of ten perpetrators are from the child's familiar, close family, relative or friendly environment, from his circle of trust, his feelings are mixed and this makes it difficult for the child to break his silence. So the incidents are not revealed, as often the victims are emotionally blackmailed, feared, misled and prevented from talking about what is happening to them. Just two in a hundred incidents arrive at the authorities. The rest is covered by silence. The 18 November, which we are honouring today at the plenary anniversary, is a reminder of this grim reality and a call for action. In 2013, I was instructed by the Council of Europe to coordinate the program "ENA to PENTE" to end child sexual abuse. My task is to inform and raise citizens' awareness through the child's information tools. This obligation of our country was completed at the end of 2016, but, due to the great abstention of the campaign, we had more than two hundred organisations from all over Greece to organise information events. Then the Council of Europe, in a positive assessment of the Greek campaign and in order for the messages to reach each house, to every child, renewed our cooperation. To date we have built valuable alliances with institutional and state actors. In the common struggle and the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs which approved and incorporated two educational programs to prevent child abuse in kindergartens and primary schools. We have carried out seven hundred activities throughout the territory, in cooperation with Ministries, local government, School Prevention Observatory and Intimidation, Parents and Warrior Associations, SEGAS, E-Crime Departments of Children, Church of Greece, Smile of the Child and other bodies. We contacted all the useful messages in small and large through the story "Kico and hand", which we also converted into a writing code for children with visual problems, the form for parents "The rule of underwear", seven phone lines of assistance and two animated stories, "The secret of Victory" and "Victora's adventure", with subtitles for heavy children and sign language for deaf children, with a view to awakening all children, in a pleasant, entertaining and teaching way. Soon the third animation story will be released, "The power of Veronica", with a student in a wheelchair, as disabled people, children with disabilities are more vulnerable to abuse. In the part of the communication projection of the campaign's messages, we supported television stations that agreed to show the Council of Europe free of charge as a social message with the approval of the National Broadcasting Council. The campaign was hosted in over two hundred high-screen television programmes. We created Facebook, Twitter, “ENA in PENTE” website, posters on side and rear faces of urban buses and posters at five major airports. At Eleftherios Venizelos airport is hosted by eight giant ports of the "ENA" campaign in PENTE. We worked with other Member States - the Council - in exchanging good practices and tools to strengthen our fight for information and awareness. All these years we have experienced hundreds of cases of child abuse. We have lived through the agony, pain, fear and despair of the victims, and, recognizing our responsibility, we have consistently devoted ourselves to our mission to prevent evil and, where this happens, to act as an instigator for the child to find the strength to break the silence and to be redeemed by the nightmare that lives. All this time we have been faced with systemic malfunctions, pathogens that will be cured through an integrated National Action Plan, which creates procedures and conditions for protecting children in practice. In particular, appropriate services, operating and coordination protocols for stakeholders, a coherent legal framework and a strengthening of its implementation, all in accordance with the Lanzarote Convention and the relevant European 2020-2025 strategy. I am optimistic that through policies, interministerial, horizontal, which the Prime Minister has developed, such as the National Obstacles Management Protocol to unify the actions of all stakeholders, the National Register of Recording and Monitoring of Poor Children to monitor the treatment of every incident, the Special Criminal Record for sexual violence offences for all those involved with children, the Protection Officer in every body with children, through cross-sectoral and individual measures, through the synergy of eleven Ministries and through a large information campaign, will succeed in creating a security framework. We owe it to our children, we owe it to everyone who really cares about them. The aim is a Greece of zero tolerance to child abuse, a Greece that will have mobilised all its institutional and social forces to eliminate the phenomenon. I'm sure it's all our wishes. I want, by closing, to thank you, Prime Minister, for the confidence in my face. Against you at the National Representation and towards the Children, I promise I will continue to work with the same targeting, as I have done up to now. Through my participation in such a great project it becomes a reality and my dream, our common dream of a more protected world for children. Ladies and gentlemen, children are our most valuable social capital. Today a decisive collective step is being taken to ensure that they are protected. With a view to the future, let us work to create a strong circle of confidence and security for every child. It's hard for kids to talk. We must break the silence. All together, society and state, we break silence to protect our children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-24-S1-commons.u5	We also thank Mrs Rapti for her long-standing offer to protect children from sexual abuse and sexual abuse. He has the floor now, after the Stepma has been sanitaryly settled, on behalf of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group - Progressive Alliance, MP Constantine Barkas.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-24-S1-commons.u6	Mr President of the House, Mr Vice-President, Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, today is indeed an important day, the European Child Protection Day from Sexual Exploitation and Sexual Abuse, and the special debate we are having today in Parliament undoubtedly shows the way, shows the intensity that the Greek Parliament is facing, that the problem is complex and we must unite ourselves to address the sexual exploitation and sexual abuse of children in our country. In recent years, it has been said that steps have been taken to deal with such atrocious cases, but that, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, is not enough and that further steps must be taken towards tackling this phenomenon. In all social activities in recent years, Mr President, sexual abuse of minors, from sport to school and the family environment, and I think it is now our duty to act against these abuses in minors. Ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to quote some elements that delineate the problem of child abuse and exploitation. Minister, please, if it's easy. Madam Minister, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-24-S1-commons.u7	Excuse me, you're absolutely right.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-24-S1-commons.u8	It is a very important matter, and because we have all listened with great respect to Mrs Raptis, who has fought against this phenomenon - and I do not speak as a new dad of a two-year-old daughter, wanting to express my agony by raising a child, I do not appreciate the tension that we are shown against the abuses - but it is bad, Madam Minister and colleague, not to show respect for the interlocutor for such an important issue. On other issues, Mr. Colleague, speak as much as you like with the ministers, but on such an important subject...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-24-S1-commons.u9	Please...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-24-S1-commons.u10	Mr President, you were talking on your phone. Please very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-24-S1-commons.u11	Please do not go near the ministerial seats. I would like to ask you, Mr President, if you will allow me to speak on behalf of
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-24-S1-commons.u12	Please very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-24-S1-commons.u13	Carry on, Mr. Barca.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-24-S1-commons.u14	I am not making suggestions, but this is an extremely important issue and I think we are all in favour of this need to respect minor children and fight for child abuse. So you understand the tension, and I apologise for that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-24-S1-commons.u15	You're right.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-24-S1-commons.u16	According to the available statistics, one in five children are victim to some form of sexual violence, which, apart from its most raw form, i.e. sexual violence itself, can also be manifested through sexual blackmail or coercive, but can also take the form of exploitation through prostitution and pornography. It is also apparent that children are abused by people of their trust and family environment. Approximately 1/3 of the children who have been injured irreparably in their body and soul will never confess to anyone, although 70% to 85% of these children know the perpetrator. A 2019 survey of minors in Quebec, Canada reveals that 22.1% of women and 10% of men have been victims of sexual abuse, rape or unwanted touches before eighteen years are closed. 16.3% of these people were even under the age of six when they were first abused and 45.5% of the children were in school. According to reports from the European Commission, there is evidence that the coronary crisis, due to COVID -19, has worsened the problem. The Vice-President of the House was also mentioned in his position and also by my colleague Mrs Rapt, especially in relation to the children who live with the people who abuse them. Moreover, children spend more time on the Internet than before - unfortunately, so it is - if necessary without surveillance, which is a strong possibility of being associated with an increased risk of contacting these children with online 'parents', if I may be allowed to. This is a very grim situation, which cannot be accepted. It has become clear that the fight against such crimes at world level is being lost and the right of every child to live without violence is not effectively protected. Therefore, our country and the European Union as a whole should reassess and strengthen efforts to protect these children. For example, there is an urgent need for nominal organic integration and integration into national law of Directive 93/2011 on child sex abuse and any legislative gaps identified must be addressed by the most appropriate means. In particular, in addition to the substantive Criminal Law and Criminal Procedure, the directive also requires Member States to adopt comprehensive administrative, i.e. non-legislative, measures such as the exchange of criminal records between Member States. These measures require the participation and coordination of many actors in various areas of governance, such as law enforcement, health care, education, social services, child protection, judges and professionals in the legal sector, and private bodies such as industry and civil society. There are still challenges in the fields of prevention, in particular prevention programmes for offenders and persons who fear that they may commit offences under criminal law, in particular in the definition of offences and the level of penalties, as well as measures to assist, support and protect children victims. The data so far suggest that the observed lack of research makes it very difficult to design and implement effective programs for all stages. The programmes which are rarely implemented shall be evaluated in order to assess their effectiveness. At the same time, however, the implementation of the directive should also be assessed in practice, as regards the effectiveness, efficiency, relevance, consistency and added value of the European Union, since the directive was adopted in 2011, but ten years have passed and challenges are growing and are more complex, such as online crime or unaccompanied minors from war zones. Ladies and gentlemen, sexual abuse of children is a complex and multifactorial issue, which requires maximum cooperation from all interested parties, which must be able - I say, Mrs Raptti, to help through this whole procedure - to take action. Let's keep an eye on the kid, 'cause if the kid gets away with it, there's hope. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-24-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, too, Mr. Barkas. Mrs Nadia Giannakopoulou has the floor now on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-24-S1-commons.u18	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, 18 November of each year has been established as the European Child Protection Day for Sexual Exploitation and Abuse. On this day the Council of Europe established, in the context of the 'ENA' campaign in PENTE, a name stating that one out of five children are victims of sexual violence and abuse in Europe. One in five. We're talking about an inconceivable, a truly tragic percentage. So the introduction of this day is coming to remind us so much that thousands of children are really suffering every year without help, and above all it reminds us of all our debt toward them. Sexual abuse remains to this day one of the most tragic scourges of our time and when it comes to minors, when it comes to young children, its weight becomes literally unsurpassed. The evidence in our country is really creepy. It is estimated that one out of six children will be victimized, he will accept some form of sexual violence in his life, with the recorded victims of the last five years being one thousand and eighty. The relevant official evidence states, as all the previous speakers have said, that the vast majority of cases of sexual abuse are happening within the child's own trust cycle, stressing that when violence is being exercised by a person who is familiar with, admire, trust, and even love it is even more difficult for children to reveal and even more difficult to overcome abuse. The sexual exploitation and abuse of children can happen at home, can happen at school, can happen in sports, out-of-school activities, streets, by phone, via web camera, but also on the Internet in general. Of course we must all bear in mind that the sexual abuse of children is the most well-preserved secret and has been termed the most nightmareous way of expressing child abuse. To a large extent, it belongs to unseen crime, which is covered by both the silence of vulnerable victims and the imposition of offenders. In fact, when the communication channels between children and parents are weak or are inexistent, the situation becomes even more painful as children cannot send messages of assistance. Most children avoid or hesitate to talk about a subject that they consider to be absolutely personal, unpleasant, shameful, embarrassing, feel ashamed of all the things that are happening. Some will even silence it forever. However, early disclosure of sexual abuse is an important prerequisite for the immediate activation of the criminal mechanism and for tackling the long-term consequences of the child's infringement. The most important thing, then, that parents first have to do toward their child, is to believe it when the child tells him what is happening, because the child really needs to know that there is someone big who believes it and who can help it. Now, as far as today is concerned, first of all, I couldn't politically and as a woman and as a mother of three girls not to say, first and foremost, a very big well-being to our colleague, Helena Rapt, who has truly identified her political path, I would say her life, with a campaign, the 'GENA in the PENTEN' campaign. We have discussed this too many times. We're watching you, Helena, and you're doing a very great job on this issue. And yes, it is important that today, in the context of this day, the Prime Minister of the country came and announced the package of a holistic one, we can say a package of measures, a national strategy, to address this so serious issue. We have listened carefully to what was said by the Prime Minister. Of course, there is absolutely no room for opposition on these issues. We are here, as far as any effort is concerned, and the holistic treatment of this morbid phenomenon, and of course we will be here, and we will be strict judges, Mr Ministers, to see what the implementation of these measures is, what the rules are and what are, of course, the effectiveness of all these measures, which are the measurable results. The campaign and the information that needs to be done is of primary importance and has to do with awareness, with constant information, so that we can all understand that we each have a duty as a citizen, as a unit, as an individuality, to break the veil of silence when he knows that such a phenomenon is first happening. From there on, education and a holistic package are essential in terms of the campaign which must also be in schools. Yes, it is very important that the class of sexual discipline is introduced. We would like, Mr Ministers, to see it even more extensive and not just two classes in primary school and one class in high school. Let us see, of course, what its effectiveness is, but it still needs to be extended. Also, there must be a continuing training... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll need a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-24-S1-commons.u19	There's no interruption. The bell's ringing itself. Talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-24-S1-commons.u20	Thank you. There is also a need for continuing training for teachers and teachers in order to be able to diagnosed if something changes in the behaviour of the child that may mean such a thing in collaboration with psychologists in schools, but also social workers, to be able to identify such a phenomenon immediately and to find a complaint and a holistic way of dealing with each particular case. Also, Ministers, it is very important to have the introduction to Greek reality of parenting schools. It's very important. It happens in too many European countries. It is very important for young couples and young parents through schools to know how they should behave and raise their children, but how they can understand if something is wrong with their child. So this is something important, and I think that you should and should take it into account. With regard to the strictness of penalties, we have been in the first place for a very long time - and it has been in the forefront of this, our late President, Fofi Gennamas - have called for strict penalties for all offences involving the sexual exploitation of minors. And we were pleased to see that in the recent change in the Criminal Code, yes, there was a tightening up of the penalties for the abuse of minors and for the rape of minors, as well as the suspension of limitations on all these offences for minors - because, unfortunately, this had been abolished by the previous Criminal Code - and, of course, on the issue of incest, which was a felony and quite right. And I close, saying it takes even greater work in terms of the specialized services of the Greek Police. I read - today, I think, some statements by Mr Theodorikos, the Minister responsible. It is very nice to list and tell us how many Greek police services are involved in the matter. It is positive, but above all we need to know what efficiency is, Mr Ministers. Because, so far, too many complaints of such offences have been completely incomplete, not to say another word, to deal with by the competent authorities. So this is very important, as is of course the treatment of social services and psychologists in these children, following the complaint of these incidents. I'm hanging up. The fight for the protection of children against sexual exploitation and abuse and the defence of their rights is a constant struggle and it is our responsibility to ensure to the full the rights of each child for a life free of violence, free of fear. It is necessary and necessary, therefore, that all of us be involved in a joint effort to protect children from abuse, in order that our children may be able to enter their adult lives without injuries and be part of the community as a whole without transferring the cycle of violence that they may have suffered. On 18 November, therefore, the European Day for the Protection of Children from Sexual Abuse is an opportunity not just to reflect what all this means, based on all these creepy elements, but above all to make a promise from all of us here to start a collective effort so that we can all say and show practically zero tolerance to child abuse. It is our responsibility and obligation here, as citizens, as parents, as politicians, you, as government, ministers, to show that we are facing this issue seriously and that we can hope in a society where there will no longer be such phenomena. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-24-S1-commons.u21	And we thank Mrs Giannakopoulou. Until the Step is settled, in order to get the floor on behalf of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr. Ioannis Delis, I would like to read a statement to this House. The Ministers for Health, Finance, Development and Investment, National Defence, Education and Religious Affairs, Labour and Social Affairs, Justice, Home Affairs, Infrastructure and Transport, the Minister of State, the Deputy Finance and Health Ministers, as well as the Deputy Minister to the Prime Minister, submitted a draft law on 23-11-2021: ‘Recommendation and organisation of a legal person under private law called ‘National Central Authority for Health Supplies’, a strategy for centralised supply of products and health services’. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. As I said before, Mr. Ioannis Delis from the Communist Party of Greece has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-24-S1-commons.u22	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of today's anniversary in this House, we want, as a party, to express our solidarity with every child who has been sexually harassed, abused and other forms of economic and social coercion. The real dimensions of this problem are far too far from the official figures and statistics, and that is why they require, firstly, brave state funding in infrastructure and in services, on the one hand, to prevent and combat this social phenomenon and, on the other, to support effectively these abused children. No, i.e., as is currently the case, which is estimated that, throughout the European Union, from EUR 366 billion, please, the funds allocated to addressing the phenomenon of violence against women only 0.4% - I repeat, 0.4% - are directed at hosts and shelters for all, but all victims of sexual violence and women and minor children. We must say here that over the years most of this funding has been directed mainly at a multi-teacher and completely fragmented network of non-governmental organisations, which has been playing a leading role in the training of health professionals, the judiciary, and even the Security Bodies. Thus, however, state responsibility is merely being substituted and even these minimum state infrastructures and services that exist from here too must start any National Action Plan declared if he of course wants to respect his title and justifies him. The result of this subscribing is certainly to make it difficult to coordinate the work of the competent scientific state bodies for such a single scientific study and address the issue. It is characteristic that, in a very recent government bill - which is, of course, law now - the abuse and neglect of minors, measures to tackle and prevent them from being implemented by public and private bodies. Another coexistence, one would say, of the public and private sectors. However, let us all ask ourselves: What kind of treatment can private individuals, of all kinds, do, to the phenomenon of child abuse? As we spoke about this study, the full study of this phenomenon means first of all that the relationship between all the economic and social factors that contribute to the formation of such personalities that are enough to commit such crimes must be established. But above all, this whole study must concern - and it must concern - the protection of children. Because today - you know - there is now scientific knowledge of the detection of a abused child, even through the study of his own behaviour at school. Subsistence, however, of the absence from schools of mental health, as well as the lack or lack of education for teachers by scientific state bodies in such matters is a major obstacle. It is, first of all, an obstacle to the early diagnosis of the most common form of abuse by the narrow family and friendly circle. There are also serious restrictions placed in the intercultural study of the phenomenon. It is characteristic that in the vast majority of countries there is no single body for preventing and treating mental trauma caused by these abused children. Furthermore, how will the relationship between the child and victim trust be developed with psychologists, social workers and other professionals, when there is no stable, permanent staff in the respective state structures, but only contractors? At the same time, the enormous shortages in the state structures of child protection, as well as in social services, lead these structures and services to be unable to meet the needs of the children as a whole. Perhaps not all of this in our country are expressed in such a tragic way as in the case of women and children of refugees living in the colleges of reception and identification centres. These unaccompanied refugee, girls and boys, which are the most vulnerable to such repulsive phenomena, come from countries that have been bloodthirsty - we must say it - from the imperialist interventions and wars of your own allies. So today's debate in this House cannot be an alibi to the current government, nor of course to the previous ones, since they consciously involve our people in these dangerous planning of the United States, NATO and the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, as a JRC, we are firmly insisting on speeding up the procedures for the administration of justice for such appalling crimes. But that means that the prosecution of minors, which, in Attica, please, only operates with two prosecutors, is required. We have two prosecutors all over Attica. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We also insist on the full protection of children and victims, legal, advisory, psychological, health care, both in order to support and denounce the perpetrator and in the whole process of judging the case, which is particularly time-consuming. It is precisely on this basis that any changes in the Criminal Code relating to crimes against sexual freedom should be supported. We also call for information programmes to be organised in schools and schools by scientific state bodies. This social pathogenicity, however, is not only addressed radically by the necessary information, nor by the changes in legislation and the decisive condemnation of the incidents where fundamental rights of children are violated. The main protection shield for these children is the development of a modern, extensive network of free social infrastructures and counselling and psychological support services for the victim, with that well-trained permanent staff, a network developed throughout Greece, covering all of the country and not just the large urban centres, so that every child who has experienced sexual violence can report, disprove, and violence of all kinds. And as far as possible - and it is impossible - to be able to stand on his feet in his adult life now without being dependent neither on economic nor social. But this is why the child is being treated, capable and necessary, in the end, for that great thorn of exploitation and oppression, this thorn of capitalist profit, which hurts and cancels the modern possibilities of living as we deserve to live in the 21st century. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-24-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr. Delis. On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, Mrs Maria Athanasios has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-24-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, sexual violence in a child has many forms and is the most silent and silent act of abuse. According to statistics, one out of five children is victim to some form of sexual violence, which, beyond the above and most obvious, can also be manifested through online sexual blackmail or coercion, but can also take the form of exploitation through prostitution and pornography. About 1/3 of the children who have been injured irreparably in the body - and in their soul most - will never confess to anyone, even though 85% of the children know their perpetrators. They'll prefer to hide it to avoid future explosive behaviours at their expense. Children who have been abused, mostly sexually, refuse to speak many times, even with the encouragement of even members of their own family, who, having lost their existence, refuse to accept the tragic reality and prefer to maintain the stereotypes and ocularity of the appearance, instead of their child’s mental equilibrium and physical health. Result, the victims because of the insecurity they feel not to reveal the truth, to close themselves, to take full responsibility for the wounds and inappropriate behaviors that exist, to lose confidence in the fellowman and as long as they grow up to become cold and to let their instincts and passions dominate by reaching their impoverishment. The sexual abuse of children is one of the most worrying phenomena, since in recent years it has taken uncontrolled proportions. Social models of violence, power, male domination, accompanied by phenomena of social isolation, confusion and cancellation of roles and expectations in sexual behavior are being interacted and create conditions of sexual victimization and exploitation of children, while it is possible to facilitate the manifestation of violence by the appearance of the relevant perpetrators and victim roles. Also, the employment of minors has nowadays been worryingly increased. I use the term 'worrisome', because it is not about the employment of children, for example, in family businesses or in the rural business of grandparents during the summer holidays. After all, such activities contribute to the development of every child of labour, responsibility, respect, altruism and other concepts that are essential to an integrated personality, which will motivate feelings of affection to the weak and not abused behaviors. The employment of minors who are worryingly increasing is the one turning them into objects of sexual and economic exploitation, which has an impact on their physical, mental, mental, moral and social development. Although Greece has ratified the Treaty on the Rights of the Child on 2 December 1992 and in recent years many efforts and actions have been taken by non-governmental organisations, for example, the "Smile of the Child", the "SOS Children's Villages", which are concerned with children, so that the leaders of the place, as well as the general public about the Treaty on the Rights of the Child, still need to be done. In recent years there has been an increase in crime against children and the dispersal of child pornography, particularly via the Internet. Absolute numbers don't exist of course. But at least over 1/3 of the cases of the general abuse revealed are the sexual abuse of children and even through the family by the people of the child’s confidence. According to organization, a thousand thirty-eight cases of abuse were reported in the last ten months and only eleven were involved in sexual abuse, not because the incidents were reduced, but because there is fear, shame and silence that must be broken, abscess that must now be operated. Treatment of the sexual abuse and exploitation of minors is a matter of legal and social dimensions. It requires special care of the state, a change of social structures, a change of attitude, an update. The state needs immediate assistance. It must first of all simplify the procedure followed by such a complaint so that the already abused minor child does not regain secondary abuse through the system itself. The child should not be retrained and should be encouraged to speak in particular. Then judicial treatment has a significant preventive, repressive, ideological function. It is very important that the exemplary punishment of the victims, those who abuse children with direct and stricter penalties is very important. Their incarceration in penitentiary institutions excludes them from repeating their criminal behaviour for as long as - very little in relation to the crime they commit - they are deprived of their natural freedom. What happens when they get out? If no measures are taken, the same and worse. How exactly are they being conscientious? Is the penalties done or not? The new amendments to the Criminal Code concerning the calculation and measurement of penalties unfortunately give the impression that no matter what the host does, there are loopholes of the law that will throw him in the soft. Indeed, there was legislation - listen - which defined them sick and gave them the right to receive preferential benefits. So not only are we dealing with the problem not effectively, not only are we preventing abuse, but the aspiring perpetrators are being dismantled and sexual violence is increasing against minors. In addition, given that the main role, that of prevention, lies with the parents who should inject principles and values into their children, they should be informed through actions, information, awareness of the state, in cooperation with the municipalities, to support them in order to be able to shield their children so that they can express their feelings freely and without inhibiting them. As the tolerance of society is perpetuating problems, the cycle of violence does not break, but rather strengthens and strengthens, because the illusion of being improper or falling softly, especially by the lukewarm treatment of the state, as conscious citizens, is being taken into account by the logic of 'I care', because children are sensitive and defenceless in the face of any dangers, how much more than the risk of sexual violence, which harms them irreparably and creates unresolved problems in their psychiam, which occur either with violent behaviour as adults or with marginal, isolation and depression behaviour. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, to deal with this sensitive problem, a political will is needed based on political awareness of the problem and the experience of experts. It needs support for families, support for social services, support in the field of prevention, education, police, health structures of every degree, media highlighting the effects of sexual abuse and exploitation of minors, increasing public awareness, but also culture of attitude in society that the state wants and can protect its members sufficiently and effectively, preventing and treating resolutely and efficiently. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-24-S1-commons.u25	And we thank Mrs Athanasios. On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, Mrs Aggeliki Adamopoulou, Member of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-24-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to quote before I begin by addressing my dear colleague Mr Barkas. I really agree with you that we are discussing a major issue today. That is why Parliament, the plenary today, should be filled with three hundred Members present. However, as the issue of child sexual abuse is obviously not a 'black' communication issue and the channels will not play today's debate, so there is probably such an unequivocal absence of MPs. That is our respect for children, that is our understanding of children. The sexual abuse of children is an extremely serious crime not only in terms of the deceptiveness of the act itself, but also in terms of the extensive and destructive life consequences for children - victims. The long-term harm caused by child sexual abuse is scientifically recorded and often transforms the lives of victims into constant hell on earth. All too often children are abused by people who know, trust, by individuals from whom they are dependent, by relatives often. This is particularly worrying for two reasons: On the one hand, it is difficult, or even annulled, to prevent and detect such crimes. The morbid sequence of confusion, emotional and social pressure and shame fuels and is fuelled by the suspicion and cover-up of such crimes and fatality also leads to the perpetuation of this huge problem, because it can only be described as enormous when the Council of Europe considers that in Europe one out of five children, 20%, is the victim of some form of sexual violence. On the other hand, because, especially in these tender ages, which shapes the individual's personality, abuse by a familiar person inspires and consolidates children - victims of a completely distorted conception of intimacy, human relations, personal self-determination, confidence, the limits of interaction, and very often the approach and interpretation of reality itself. In fact, evil seems to have deteriorated because of the pandemic, as internationally mentioned - there are clear indications of this, especially for children who coexist with their abusers. High and accredited high-risk factor is also the internet. Nowadays, children spend more and more time on the Internet and very often remain unattractive. And here is where there is much greater risk of children being contacted with so-called ‘sexual predators’ on the Internet. With far more perpetrators in a restriction or even isolation regime, the demand for audiovisual material for child abuse has increased by up to 25% in some Member States. Thus, in a globalised society that has chosen to view as a life-saving attitude the logic of the market, an increased demand, even for such a gross product, wherever on the planet fatality takes place for some other opportunity for a well-paid offer, so also a reason for another appalling crime anywhere on the planet. In July last year, the Commission of the European Union announced in a communication to the European Parliament and the Council made it quite clear that the fight against these crimes is being lost worldwide and that every child's right to live without violence is not effectively protected. The European Union has decided that it should reassess and strengthen its efforts in 2020-2025 and presented eight initiatives to combat child abuse. Legislation and legislation are, of course, necessary stages, but I think this is not so problematic, and I note that it is very often the fulfilment of the obligation to legislate whether it is overestimated or overcommunication and what it is doing. He oversees other very serious and urgent needs. I also think that it is self-evident to record best practices on any issue, as is the need for international cooperation and coordination in a problem without frontiers. I would therefore insist, in particular, on the fifth initiative, entitled 'Supporting the Member States to better protect children through prevention', in the sixth, concerning the possible establishment of a European Centre for the Prevention and Treatment of Child Abuse, and in the seventh, entitled 'Promoting the efforts of industry to ensure the protection of children in their products'. I am very sorry, but I think that the Union itself is proving to be unsuccessful in relation to the seriousness of the problem. Because we all know very well that the word used by one to record a policy on his agenda betrays the importance he attaches to the problem he has to face, the possibility for the Member States to better protect children through prevention, the possible establishment of a European centre for the prevention and treatment of sexual abuse of children and the encouragement of industry to ensure the protection of children in all kinds of products are anaemic reports. In terms of child abuse we need more dynamic initiatives, we need resources to build, serve and equip effective structures that, besides being necessary, have added value to society, because a centre of psychosocial and family support produces work that meets wider social needs. The fact that sexual abuse and exploitation are aimed at children, who should be protected and cared for by their environment, makes all of us adults responsible for promoting violence, protecting children, prosecuting offenders - not covering up - and involving children in matters relating to them. Both through the family environment and through school, with proper education the child may learn to protect himself. One way is to point to the child that there are certain points in his body, especially those covered by underwear, to which others are not allowed to touch, but also the child respectively. Moreover, if the child, because of a situation, experiences negative feelings such as shame, fear, insecurity, sadness, this is a sign of bad behaviour and should be removed from the environment. We still have to train children so that they can separate the good from the bad secret, since often the morbid relationship with the victim is characterized mainly by secrecy. The child should learn that he can address his parent or teacher in case of abuse. This is done if the child is encouraged to discuss his problems fearlessly with a trusted adult who will support it. As the "Smile of the Child", special emphasis should be placed on the need to set up a single body to record the incidents of child abuse, but also on the introduction of sexual education in schools from primary school, so that children are informed in a valid manner about the issues involved and, on the other hand, to know what children must refuse, what they must suspect and why they must seek help if they feel threatened. We therefore need to prevent everyday life, and we consider it not possible but necessary to establish not only a European centre, but also national centres with multiple points of service and reference. The industry is not just enough to push it forward, but we also need to monitor it effectively. So the issue is being transferred to the top of the priorities. As long as the Union's koruna does not first open up to strengthening resources for a social state, so we risk that today's problems will become permanent as situations tomorrow. And I'm ending by saying that the great friend of the perpetrator of sexual abuse, the great enemy of the children is the cover-up. Coverage is a scourge which we should all contribute to fighting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-24-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mrs Adamopoulou. We are completing the positions for this anniversary session of the House on the European Children's Day from Sexual Exploitation and Sexual Abuse with the State Secretary for these issues, Mr Domna Michalidou. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-24-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President. Today is a day of importance for all of us, because together we are all showing zero tolerance, we are showing zero flexibility in safeguarding children's rights. We do not accept any divergence in this and we are - and I am very happy to see it - all together as strict as possible. I am very optimistic because I really see all the political forces in our country assembled and coordinates on this issue and I would like to thank you on a personal level and, of course, to thank you as the State Secretary responsible for the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. For us in the Ministry child protection is our flag, it's really our flag and we're here for every child. We have defined - and indeed all of you have voted for it - the definition of child abuse, which is what child abuse is. Last month this Parliament voted so that the Greek legislature specifically defines child abuse. It's not just sexual abuse, it's not just violence, it's verbal abuse, it's neglect, it's neglecting medical treatment. That's why we're next to all the children and we're trying in every part of their abuse to completely reverse the reality: in children with disabilities, the diagnosis is to be made as early as possible, in children in institutions and structures to ensure that all children come out of structures and go to their right family. To increase their skills, whether in pre-school treatment or then, as far as possible and, of course, to completely reverse any abuse, especially sexual abuse. We legislated - the Prime Minister mentioned this - three things: the definition, but also these two measures which will now be coordinated in all ministries, horizontally. The white criminal record: We're vertical, we're too strict on it. It cannot be a person who works with children, cares for children, hosts children, rather than has a white criminal record on specific offences, on offences relating to sexual dignity, human trafficking and drug trafficking. And, of course, within every structure - we have already started with nursery and childcare camps, with creative employment centres, with the structures hosting children, such as those who used to call them orphanages - there is a social worker in charge of child abuse and child protection so that children have a human being of confidence, go to him and do not lose information. That's what we want. So, of course, I welcome the efforts of the Prime Minister and this initiative as of paramount importance - and I really cannot think of a more competent man, a more serious woman, a more proper Member - and I was very pleased that from all the Members in the House I heard this - from Helena Rapt. It has done too much work, it has been dedicated to it, we are in daily communication, it knows children, it knows the structural problems, the problems that the state has on how to ensure that there is no child abuse tomorrow, so that coordinates, horizontally, interministerially to make this effort to the most effective extent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-24-S1-commons.u29	And we thank the Deputy Minister, Mr Michaelidou. At this point I would like to say that I am very grateful to all Members of Parliament for their presence here for the first time in this plenary session, in which, indeed, he is very pleased that the Prime Minister himself, who has not only welcomed, has also announced a number of initiatives which, as I understand he said, will be the raw material for the further, in order to be useful in society in this very sensitive subject. I particularly thank all the Members of all the parties who have all been positive about this, with particular thanks - you have all expressed it - to our colleague, Mrs Rapt, who, as we all know, has done this not only a rule of life, but also an experience of her staff, as you yourself have stressed. After all this, ladies and gentlemen, the anniversary report was completed at this event on the European Children's Day from Sexual Exploitation and Sexual Abuse. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-24-S1-commons.u30	With the consent of the House at 12.37', the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday, 25 November 2021 at 10.00, on the subject of Parliament's work: (a) An anniversary report: International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women; (b) discussion and decision, in accordance with Rule 62 of the Constitution and Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure of Parliament, on applications for waiver of immunity from Members of Parliament's Parliament, Mr Neocles of Cretan and Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos, according to the special agenda and (c) legislative work, in accordance with the supplementary agenda.
