ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-03-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Happy birthday to Stamatis and Simeon today! I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-03-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, the reports have been read out. I'll make two announcements to this House. The Standing Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs submits its reports to the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: (a) 'Determination of the Interim Economic Partnership Agreement between Ghana, of the one part, and the European Community and its Member States, of the other part'. Β 'Preparation of the Agreement for the Protection of Investment between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Singapore, of the other part'. (c) 'Preparation of the Agreement for the Protection of Investment between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Vietnam, of the other part'. D 'Preparation of the Agreement for the Protection of Investment between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the SADC EPA States, of the other part'. The Standing Committee on Economic Affairs presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "Declaration of general censuses of the year 2021 by the Greek Statistical Authority, urgent arrangements to address the effects of the CIVID pandemic -19, urgent financial and tax arrangements and other provisions".
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-03-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS In his letter, the Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs informs the House of the following: 'I inform you about the topical and urgent questions in the context of parliamentary scrutiny on Wednesday, February 3, 2021 that no. 356/28-1-2021 topical question will be answered by the State Secretary for Labour and Social Affairs Mr Maria Syregella." We shall begin and end with the timely question under No 356/28-1-2021 by MP Larissa of the New Democracy, Maximos Charakopoulos, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: 'What programming for the implementation of demographic policy'. Mr. Harakopoulos, good morning, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-03-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Secretary, and from the seats of this House, I should like to congratulate you on taking up your new duties. The creation of a State Secretary for the Family and Demographic Policy for the first time, I would like, in the years of Postpopulation, to show no doubt the strong interest of the Mitsotakis Government in the problem. Because family support is the key tool for a demographic policy. Before developing my question, Mr President, I think it is my duty to address the serious issue of the days in which Mrs State Secretary has responsibility. I am talking about complaints of sexual abuse, insult and verbal violence, mainly by people of sport and art. They really deserve congratulations to those who dare and courageously speak of what has happened to them. They find the mental strength, the mental strength to talk about the wound they carry. Of course, these issues are also a matter of justice to judge them. But publicity can, Mr President, prevent those who abuse their powers from acting. And as victims are even ten years of childbirth, we should not just stay in disarray, but take a serious look at what further we need to do in education and justice. Mr President, this year we are celebrating the two hundred years since the Greek Revolution of 1821. I wonder, at the demographic rate we're moving, will there be a Greek nation in two hundred years from today? If every year we have forty thousand less births than deaths, like last year, how many Greeks will there be in 2221? I'm afraid we're literally an extinct nation. In recent years, Mr President, the theory was very popular in many of our countries that the power of nations is knowledge and that it does not measure the size of the population. Today I think everyone realizes that the size counts, especially when your neighbour is growing at a time when he is growing up and formulating the well-known vital space theory and you are a champion in demographic contraction. I think you have to make an alarm like that, as an alarm, I'm taking the creation of a State Secretary of State for the demographic issue and the family. I would therefore like, Madam Secretary, from the Step of the National Representation, to inform the Parliament and through it the entire Greek people, the nation, the Hellenism, where land, the government's road map, of your planning for demographic policy, the measures you will take in order to overturn this demographic smuggling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-03-S1-commons.u5	Thank you very much, Mr Harakopoulos. The State Secretary for Labour and Social Affairs will respond, Mr Maria Syregella. Mrs. Syrevella, iron and courage. You have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-03-S1-commons.u6	Thank you very much. First of all, I too would like to begin with the subject that Mr Charakopoulos has mentioned, which is the issue of days, and clearly also has the positive impression that women, and not only women, but especially women, have started and spoken, because Mrs Bekatopoulos has broken this chain of silence, the guilt that women may sometimes feel. Clearly, our country has an integrated network of structures to support the psychological, social, and even the working support of these women, with programmes with OAED in cooperation with the Ministry of Sport, all horizontal policies, the class of sexual education in schools that currently exists pilot and all that. Now on this issue, clearly addressing the demographic problem is a very big problem, not only for our country, but also for all of Europe, especially now, and with the rapid developments that the COVID pandemic has brought into our lives. That is why it has now been judged by the government to have an official state body, a central executive body with the role of engraving, coordinating and monitoring demographics. The report of the intergroup committee analyses the main manifestations of the demographic problem and places particular emphasis on measures, as you yourself said, Mr Papoutsis, for the family, for the child, for the creation of a favourable environment for childbirth, clearly also for the development of a demographic policy, as we must also take into account the particular characteristics of the Greek society and of course take into account the experience of other countries in Europe, which, with all the actions that have taken over the past decades, have more positive effects on their demographic sizes. Clearly, on this, the conclusion of the intergroup will be a useful, basic tool in the preparation of the national demographic action plan. We said horizontal and positive measures. Benefit policies are also very important, but if they are not combined with appropriate support measures horizontally, they often do not pay off. Therefore, whatever is being decided on a voluntary basis, it should in any event be combined with other horizontal measures geared to gender equality, the harmonisation of family and working life, to ensure that parents and, in particular, women, who are often unequally indifferent to family responsibilities, their stay and their development in the labour market. Of course, when there is work, much easier for women, but also for men to give birth to, they must also bridge the gaps that exist today in protecting the various categories of parental workers, women in the private sector and in the public sector. Through the conclusion of the intergroup we are already bringing to Parliament in the next working law, paid parental leave that will receive as a father immediately after the date of birth of his child, parental leave as an intransigent right for each parent, leave with remuneration for the workers of caregivers and workers, extension of the right of parent and caregivers for a period of time with a flexible working treaty for a particular physically satisfactory period in order to serve the care needs of the children and the family in general and for the first time we will have protection for both parents against dismissal, when they make use of permits and facilities to raise their children. Non-dismissal will apply not only to women who are in need, but also to men who are entitled to abolition, which will be provided for in the next bill. These measures will also be linked to other care policies, such as 'the nannies of the neighborhood'. It's a program that we're bringing in in the immediate time. Right now we're in the study process. And, at the same time - and I close because I have exceeded time, from what I see - because we have said that the problem is not only national, but it is also European, we are already in contact with the other countries to see what good practices are and how they have increased their demographic sizes and, at the same time, we are also in direct contact with the Commissioner, because for the first time the European Union has a Commissioner for Demography and Democracy, about what the policies are going to be. The specific needs of each Member State must be taken into account in these policies so that all the horizontal measures taken are also in cooperation with the relevant ministries. It will have family support, child protection - I now say the basics - harmonisation of family and working life, which, as we have said, is one of the most basic, health, long-term care, the Silver Economy, which is within and within the intergroup. In any case, we will either use all the financial instruments or national resources, but above all Europeans, because on the Commission's side there will already be plans for special funding for the demographic problem, because, as we have said, it is European. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-03-S1-commons.u7	Before we move on to secondary education, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Justice has forwarded to the House, in accordance with Rule 86 of the Constitution and the n. Regulation (EC) No 3126/2003 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 December 2003 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by the Community institutions and bodies and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Regulation (EC) No 3126/2003 (Treaty liability of the Ministers) as in force on 2 February 2021: Criminal case law concerning the Deputy Minister of State and Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information Mr Nikolaos Papapas; and Criminal case law concerning the Deputy Minister of State, Alexandros Flavouraris and the Deputy Minister of Economy and Development Mr. Charakopoulos, you have three minutes at your disposal for your dentology without stress.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-03-S1-commons.u8	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to express, Madam Secretary, my satisfaction at the announcements you have just made on forthcoming government legislative initiatives in the direction of measures which have shown the conclusion of the Intergroup Committee of Parliament, which I had the honour of working as Vice-President during the previous parliamentary term. This is a conclusion, which was almost unanimous except for the Communist Party and the Golden Dawn. He was voted in favour of all the political forces at the time. I think it is good that the government, before even forming the Ministry responsible, had gone ahead with the adoption of measures that we had included in the conclusion, such as the birth allowance of EUR 2 000 for every child, reduced VAT on infants from 24% to 13%, increased the tax on each child by EUR 1 000 for every child, abolished the unfair luxury tax on large-scale cars for luxurious families. All of this shows no doubt the will of the government, but there is still much to be done, as you have said, in your prototype, because, unfortunately, Mr President, demographic contraction has a chain of consequences in many areas. In a society with more grandparents than grandchildren, the future cannot, it is certainly not prosperous. The problem is not only a birth reduction, but also an ageing population. We are becoming a country of old age and in such a country, what can be the future of the insurance system, but also of the health system? How long can it last? What prospects can a country with more CFP than schools have? Those of us who have pointed out in previous years that demographic is the country's major national problem many times have faced confrontation from some of Parliament's wings that these are extreme, conservative risks. And the House's conclusion came to confirm that we are in a truly marginal situation and need national awakening. All those who have put thoughts and suggestions to our committee from the academic community of the country, but also from countries that are positive examples of the treatment of demographics, such as the Scandinavian countries, agree on one thing, Mr President: there are no magic solutions and not just benefits. But the measures must not be fragmentary, they must be consistently followed in order to yield in the medium to long term. So we do not have the luxury of changing demographic policy from government to government, and most of all from State Secretary to State Secretary. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In view of the fact that, Mr President - your little tolerance - I would like to say that, apart from less births in relation to deaths, we have in recent years and Brain drain, the departure of young people abroad for work, opportunities, employment - we are talking about the exit of tens of thousands of young people who are in productive and also of childbearing age - that is why we need a structured policy for their return. Because if these children form, make families abroad, then it is very difficult to return them and will also make the demographic problem even more difficult. Madam Secretary, if I reached a conclusion from my long-term involvement with the subject, it is that to create a family, to make the first step, it must feel safe, work safely, have a social state with infrastructure, with quality benefits in public goods, such as education, such as health, to know that work and career are not incompatible with family creation, with motherhood. It is therefore necessary to support the first step in the creation of a family. And, of course, Mr President, every opportunity must be exhausted to support the multitude of families, trittens and luxuries. If possible, Madam Secretary, the benefits should be restored to the previous memorandum levels. Of course, it is not just measures that have financial costs and burdens on the state budget. You should - I think - see horizontal measures relating to other ministries, for example the transfer of students from multiple families. These measures do not have financial costs, as I have said. The demographic situation - and I am closing down with that, Mr President - is not just an economic issue. If it were only a financial issue, the so-called 'Christian West' would not have a demographic problem, such as Germany, which has a high per capita income and would have a demographic explosion in the third world, in Asia, in sub-Saharan African countries. It is also a question of standards and we still do a lot in this direction to remember the saying of our grandparents that children are a blessing of god. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-03-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr Harakopoulou. Here you go, Mrs Maria Syrevella, you have three minutes for your denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-03-S1-commons.u10	Yeah, I'll be very brief. Just as you said, the first and most important thing is that there should be work, that there should be work, that the Greeks and Greeks feel that there really is this financial security that comes from their work and, of course, the social state that should support young families, especially in the early years of children's lives. The most important thing is that there should be a uniform, coherent and time-consuming policy on this issue and that is why we have chosen, as our basic tool, the conclusion of the intergroup which concerns us all and everyone, regardless of ideological or political or party restrictions. We will also be relying on this, because all the other countries and the Scandinavian, but also other countries, such as France, which have pursued a very good demographic policy, have had this, a single, stable policy that came from all the parties, regardless of who was ruling. That's the most important thing, that's what we're going to do, and that's how we're going to go.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-03-S1-commons.u11	Thank you both very much. Have a good day to both of you! Good morning! Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed. At this point we will have a short break and will continue the sitting at 11 a.m. with legislative work, in accordance with the agenda that has been distributed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-03-S1-commons.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. Happy birthday again if we have someone named Simeon or Stop! We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all draft laws of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: 1. ‘Preparation of the Interim Economic Partnership Agreement between Ghana, of the one part, and the European Community and its Member States, of the other part’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. ‘Preparation of the Agreement for the Protection of Investment between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Singapore, of the other part’. 3. ‘Preparation of the Agreement for the Protection of Investment between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Vietnam, of the other part’. 4. ‘Preparation of the Investment Protection Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the SADC EPA States, of the other part’. The bills were voted on by a majority in the Standing Committee and were put to the House under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, namely those who object to the ratification of the conventions for five minutes and the parliamentary representatives, if they so wish, for five minutes, provided that the President of the Parliament is not speaking. The vote on the four conventions will take place at the end of their debate separately, in the order of debate. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-03-S1-commons.u13	The House agreed. We will begin first with those who have voted 'by' and 'with reservation'. Christos Katsotis will first speak from the Communist Party of Greece. Mr. Katsotis, here, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-03-S1-commons.u14	Mr President, I would like your tolerance, because there are four conventions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-03-S1-commons.u15	Yeah, but not five minutes for each of them, that is, twenty minutes!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-03-S1-commons.u16	No, it's okay. The European Union's agreement between the so-called 'less developed countries', such as Ghana or the SADC countries, namely the Southern African Development Community, which includes Botswana, Lesotho, Mozambique, Namibia, South Africa, Escuitini - former Swaziland - is a robbery against the peoples. Europe's monopolistic groups and the urban ranks of these countries are uniquely beneficial. With such agreements, the European Union succeeds in gaining favourable conditions under the 'framework' of favourable tariff treatment for imports of agricultural products from these countries into the European Union and for exports to these countries mainly of industrial products, but also for the acquisition of positions on the markets of these countries, in which it is robbing the suffering labour force and the wealthy resources. An important area of interest to European monopolies is the purchase of public procurement and public procurement in those countries that are areas of both strong competition between the European Union, the USA and China, as well as high profitability for groups and particularly in areas such as construction and public works, energy, telecommunications, services and industry. These are precisely the aims of the economic agreement between the European Union and Ghana and the Economic Partnership Agreement with the countries of the SADC. With more developed economic countries, the European Union is moving towards strengthening European groups through the so-called 'Free Trade Agreements', which are, in fact, seeking to open up these markets for European capital. The agreement with Vietnam and Singapore, in addition to the economic importance it has for the European Union and the monopolistic groups, is of particular geopolitical importance because of the strong competition in Asia and especially in the countries concerned between the USA and China, and shows the European Union's effort not to stay behind in the competition race in the region. It also illustrates the complex relations between the European Union and China, which the European Union is faced with as a partner and opponent at the same time in the run-up to the recent agreement between the European Union and China, which has caused the United States to react strongly, but also within the European Union by parts of capital that are in competition with Chinese monopolies. The free trade agreement with Singapore is important for the interests of the Euro-Union monopolies, but also for the growing capitalism of Singapore, the most powerful in the ASEAN countries, the South-East Asian Association of States. Singapore is the European Union's largest partner, representing about 1/3 of EU-ASEAN trade and almost 2/3 of investment. Over ten thousand European Union operations are located in Singapore and use it as a hub for the entire Pacific. With these data and the economic war that is mitigating with the US, which they consider to be the region of strategic importance and which have aggressive policies, following the withdrawal from the trade agreement between the European Union and the United States and China in the region, the European Union - Singapore is gaining strategic character for monopolistic groups in the European Union. Since the entry into force of the Europe-Switzerland Agreement will replace bilateral investment agreements with the Member States of the European Union. The agreement will be the second after the European Union-Canada Agreement, which will include the investment court system to resolve disputes between investors and states. The agreement will also be the guide to the other agreements between the European Union and the other ASEAN States. What's she predicting? Overall liberalisation of markets, services and investment, mutual recognition of diplomas and ensuring equal conditions of competition for European Union enterprises, free access of European Union enterprises to public procurement, in particular on the market for services of general interest, where there are already many suppliers of the European Union, the removal of technical and regulatory barriers to trade in goods, in particular vehicles, electronics, medicines, medical devices, as well as green technologies, an undertaking by Singapore not to increase its tariffs, protection of intellectual property rights and, finally, protection of a hundred and ninety geographical indications of the European Union and alignment with the Paris Agreement opening up the Singapore market in the green technologies and trade in pollutants of the European Union, on the basis of the priorities of high capital. The European Union's free trade agreement with Vietnam is important for the Euro-Union groups. In particular for Vietnam, the European Union's policy against human rights violations, which are also used by the European Union as an economic tool for pressure and interference in the country's internal political developments, must be taken into account. The Free Trade Agreement of the European Union - Vietnam, supplemented by an Investment Protection Agreement, was signed in 2019, and with it, but also previous agreements, a enhanced European Union- Vietnam human rights dialogue is planned on an annual basis. Both agreements discussed with Singapore and Vietnam concern investment protection agreements, supplementing the corresponding free trade agreements. On the opening of markets, these agreements provide for the so-called ‘investor's anticipation rights’. These are claims by business groups for state compensation because their policy or their legislation prevented investments and the anticipated profits of groups in a sector. The European capital, in other words, forms a secure investment environment, seeking to secure guaranteed profits either directly from its investments or through state allowances. In recent years there has even been a eruption of investors against states and intense competition. These actions will be judged by the so-called 'investor and state dispute settlement mechanisms', which are arbitration bodies set up by large legal corporations to which the monopolies are subject. Such provisions were first included in the free trade agreement concluded by the European Union with Canada. The liberalisation of markets, services and investment, the free access of European Union enterprises to public procurement, in particular the market for services of general interest, the removal of trade barriers, the protection of investors only serves the interests of monopolies. For workers it means farm intensity, at the same time crushing self-employed small professionals and farmers. The JRC - as in the European Parliament here too - votes 'no' in all conventions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-03-S1-commons.u17	Thank you very much, Mr Katsotis. The Greek Solution voted "with reservation". Mr Antonios Mylonakis is therefore called at Step. Slowly and clearly, Mr. Mylonaki, because our Chief is listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-03-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have now come to ratify four agreements, essentially the protection of investments between the European Union and its Member States and countries such as Ghana, such as Vietnam, such as the SADC EPA States, namely South Africa and Singapore. None of the four agreements, Mr Minister - and I told you in committee - are winning anything from our homeland. It is a series of agreements signed by the European Union with the states and we, as members of it, have to ratify them. But we have said this many times and it is this: The economy of our country, do we care about it at all? So, what do we do, instead of dealing with the economy, instead of dealing with illegal immigration, instead of dealing with pandemic, and what are we going to do, how do we get out of this alalum where you have thrown us and not just you, but the European Commission, as is shown every day? I should also like to give you one news: yesterday, the Social Democratic Party in the European Commission asked, Mr Loverdos, for a committee of inquiry into the situation under which so many billions of European citizens have been given money - including Greece, namely the Greeks - inspected for a vaccine or for two companies, to say it better, whose vaccines were certainly not safe and effective. It comes out, Minister, yesterday Professor Ilias Mosalos - yours - and what does he say worldwide and is also published in a magazine? That the "Sputnik V", the "Sputnik-5" is the safest and most effective vaccine worldwide at the moment and after the three tests? You know that, Mr. Loverdo, now. All the states are now running. Did you say anything, Mr. Bukowo? Oh, no. What can you say? What to say, you have made panacea and flag of PFIZER and vaccine! Oh, no. Why would you say that? Now you're going to run begging Russia to give us vaccines. Let me see where we'll find them now, when he gave them to us a while ago, as Greek President Velopoulos mentioned here. They gave us vaccines and we didn't take them. Why? Because we had to serve the multinational approach and the political approach. Are we a dealer anywhere? Is Greece a pharmaceutical dealer? I heard the same thing yesterday and by Mr Kurchos, who was with me on the KONTRA channel and said what? That no, the European Commission has not been wrong. Hasn't he been wrong? Crime has done, not wrong! Crime! But, of course, crimes, when it comes to multinationals, when it comes to pharmaceutical colossals, we leave them low. You understand what we're saying. So let's go now, because I had a lot to say, but I'm also being pushed by the time on the four agreements. Ghana. Do we have anything to do with Ghana? You'll only understand that we don't have an embassy in Ghana. You know, that our relations with Ghana are represented through Abuja in Nigeria, our embassy there. And the Ghanaians have neither a consulate nor an embassy or an office here. They have it in Rome. From that you can understand how urgent these bills are, Minister. What the European Union says is panacea, we must support it. From the preamble to this - I ask for your tolerance for two more minutes, Mr President - we learn that the trade preferences granted under this agreement with Ghana are the Cotonou Agreement, I remind you, which has expired since 31 December 2020, and because the European Union now needs to renew it, it puts all the states to vote in favour of this agreement. It is therefore possible to ensure economic and commercial interests, particularly in Germany, Central and Northern Europe. Why is that? Because their multinationals go to Ghana and other parts of South Africa. Now should we talk about Vietnam? I'm telling it all together. Should we say about the Economic Partnership Agreement with the Southern African Development Community, the CAM countries, namely Botswana, Lesotho, Mozambique, South Africa? Except Johannesburg, all the others are underdeveloped. What are they doing over there? They go, they find cheap workers' hands, i.e. slaves, and they work. Ghana is a country with rich mineral resources. We know that very well. And yet, a very large part of her inhabitants are poor, Mr. Athanasios, they are fatal, so poor that people don't have to eat. So the multinationals of Central, Northern and Western Europe are going there, they find their hands vulnerability, that is, slaves, as some people want to do in our homeland. Because in the end, we're going to be the slaves of the multinationals in here. No business comes to make a serious investment. "NIKE" announced yesterday that in 2022 it was leaving Greece. He's looking to go, he says, either in Rome or in Istanbul. So the "NEKE" is leaving and leaves a hundred shops, a hundred businesses. That's right. And here comes Mr. Georgiadis, the Minister for Development and Investment, and says: "The best period for Greece is coming, everyone wants to invest in Greece." Who all? In your dreams. That's why restaurants want to deliver the keys. The president of GATT, Mr. Kavathas, a serious man, comes out, and says: "Sixteen of the ten small and medium-sized enterprises in the catering are closing. We will deliver the keys and Adonis answers: "Get them here", while they say: "No, we will go to Maximos to give them", there, in the "final" state, this caricature you built in there, the cage that governs Greece, a state within a state. This was done by the Prime Minister and your government, gentlemen of the New Democracy. And of course, you're getting ready, learning, bringing Skopje agreement. Of course we also have SYRIZA here, who supports you in this thing, has set back, he has signed, and you've backed up then. And because he wants to say: "Bravo, we have done a great feat," you come to honour this agreement and sign it, which had to have the Prespecies Agreement stopped for a long time and had to be a committee of inquiry, as we have asked, gentlemen of the New Democracy. You, the patriots, the great patriots, the Macedonians, who were dressed in the clothes of the Macedonian Struggle, many and you went out and shouted: "The Prespecies Agreement, shameful, betrayal" and I don't know what else. Conclusion: In all four bills - and Singapore, which Singapore is the truth - it is a great centre with which we do not have bad relations, we have good relations, especially with regard to our shipping, there is also a port consulate there, there is an embassy - the explanatory statement mentions three things:. 'World target: compliance of our country with international obligation. Long-term objective: main concern is the alignment of trade relations between the Parties to the European Union and the rules of the World Trade Organisation." And as a special purpose of ratifying all four bills, what is it reported? Zero, nothing. Greece will barely put money in its pocket, in arbitration and in aid to the Ghana, Vietnam, and, of course, to the SADC countries. The Greek Solution, loyal to what it had said at the first moment: "First Greece, first the Greeks", votes "the present" in all four bills. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-03-S1-commons.u19	Thank you very much, Mr Mylonakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-03-S1-commons.u20	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-03-S1-commons.u21	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-03-S1-commons.u22	Mr President, I would like to welcome to the Greek Parliament the ambassador of Vietnam and the South African fold who are attending our meeting. They're not sitting in the official gallery because of COVID, but they're in the upper gallery. I think we should welcome them in the way we welcome them to the Greek Parliament, but also through their presence to see the importance of the agreements that we are currently in force for these countries.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-03-S1-commons.u23	Thank you very much, Minister. "Withdrawal" the Merra25 also voted. Mr. Clawn Grigoriadis is therefore called at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-03-S1-commons.u24	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, as you know better than I am, today our Parliament is called upon to ratify four bilateral agreements on single trade and investment protection. These agreements between the European Union and the African and Asian States, of course, fall within the framework of a broader strategy adopted by the European Union in recent years. The idea of a number of bilateral free trade agreements between the European Union and third countries has been developing since the mid-2000s and is clearly a strategic choice of strong economies that promote neoliberal globalisation. Initially, this objective was promoted by efforts to liberalise international trade at a global level and finally achieved with the establishment of the World Trade Organization in 1995, with the aim of a global trade liberalisation agreement. However, such an agreement has never been possible because of the social reactions of the global movement against globalisation and, of course, because of the disagreement of all developing countries. So we have been guided - necessarily, one would say - in a number of bilateral or, if you like, thematic agreements, such as the TiSA agreement, which is an agreement on services or ACTA which is an agreement on copyright. After all, the European Union has already concluded a number of such agreements with developing countries, for example, Latin American countries, with no response, or even something about these agreements within Europe, simply because these agreements only lead to the deregulation of the markets in developing countries and not the deregulation of our own economies in Europe. It was in favour of us, but it was robbery for the other parties. Through this process and as the objectives have not been achieved through the World Trade Organisation, now an attempt is being made to achieve bilaterally, with agreements such as CETA between the European Union and Canada and TTP between the European Union and the United States of America, which have brought exactly this strategy of the European Union, but which has emerged that it has not only been limited to North America, but that it has been spread throughout the world, that is also in areas which are threatened by one of our economic expansion - I mean in the broad sense of 'our', our European Union - but without being in no way in a position to threaten the European market. The generalised reaction to the transatlantic agreements with the USA and Canada, in particular with regard to the mediation mechanisms between States and investors, finally forced the Commission to promote a joint system that would separate the agreements into two types: firstly, the free trade agreements; secondly, the agreements for the protection of investments from which only the latter arrive here in our national parliaments for ratification, precisely because they would be those which would be adopted, they would further circumvent the legitimacy of the states for the benefit of the investors' associations; and, secondly, the first only ones are signed by the institutions - illegal instruments, I would remind you, since we are in Parliament, such as the Commission or the Eurogroup - of the European Union. In this context, of course, the present agreements are also part of what we are about to ratify here today in the Greek Parliament: three investment protection agreements which, in the opinion of Mera25, want attention here - and it is also clear that the Member States are able to legislate on investment, if this is considered to be affecting investors, and which have been signed in the three-year period 2016-2019 - in 2016 with the African countries, in 2018 with Singapore and in 2019 with Vietnam - and of course, as you all know, together with a fourth free trade agreement with Ghana. The Greek Parliament, Mr President, and honourable Members, is called upon to ratify multi-page agreements that have been criticised by civil society and which contain a large number of provisions which have actually arisen in dictating the strongest economic lobby of this planet. However, ladies and gentlemen, ratification of economic agreements by the Member States of the European Union is not a formal process, but rather an extremely serious and substantial process. These trade and investment agreements often run counter to a number of international agreements on our environment, climate and biodiversity, for example - and you all know it - are the Paris Agreement. Let us remember that the agreement with Canada was almost inapplicable as it had been voted against in the Wallonia Parliament, precisely because the mediation regime between states and investors was very favourable to the latter, to investors. Thus, the agreement finally led to a small improvement, but obviously only for communication purposes. Furthermore, with regard to this new type of agreements, that is to say, investment protection, only in 2019 has been strongly criticised by the Greens and the whole of the European Left on the basis of the agreement between the European Union and Vietnam - and I am glad that we have here the Ambassador of Vietnam - as this agreement does not provide, contrary to the agreements of CETA, Canada, the European Union, the articles on sustainable development are subject to the mechanisms for resolving disputes, even though in its recent resolution the European Parliament on the European Green Agreement expressly states that all trade and investment agreements should set strict criteria and mechanisms for protecting the environment and tackling the climate crisis. Even worse, by CETA, which already provided for a procedure clause enabling investors to challenge social or environmental laws, now with these new investment agreements - such as those which we are asking us to vote on - in some cases, in the name of indirect expropriation, the umbrella clause is now included, which sets out all contracts signed between an investor and a Contracting State in the agreement on the same fate, the same position as the protection agreement. That is why they have not dared to remove the power of ratification from our national parliaments, because today we are actually called on to equate any future legislation on the protection of work, the environment, health with interests - listen to the - of some Asian companies. At the same time, we are called upon to ratify an agreement of two thousand nine hundred pages, almost three thousand, with South African states with similar mechanisms in countries with significant mineral resources, which will, of course, be carried out north on the new colonists without even having, as we have, the future possibility of legislating protective laws such as those already in force in the European Union. I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. The supporters of these agreements describe them as a regulatory framework which will allegedly help to curb market deregulation. However, in our view, Mr Minister, the opposite is true. First of all, environmentally, labour and democratically acquired decades of European societies are limited, as these are treated as the corresponding much lower countries, as they are - I am sorry to say, Mr Ambassador - of China, Vietnam and the United States. There is also a regulatory framework that favours multinational companies to the States. This is the well-known ISDS mechanism which effectively carries the power from society to companies and restricts the ability of the states to define these conditions under which investments can be made, which is evident in the agreement with Vietnam provided for in this'umbrella' clause and which sets out all contracts signed between an investor and a Contracting State in the agreement, in the same position as the already existing legislative framework in that country. The benefits of this agreement are largely based on controversial and misleading statistics. For example, it is said that there will be an increase in jobs and revenues. This claim has been degraded through the example of TTIP that was advertised to increase jobs, and it is finally estimated that there will be a loss of one million jobs transatlanticly: six hundred eighty thousand in our European Union and three hundred and twenty thousand in the United States of America. It is clear that I am a little out of time, Mr President, so with my last two pages I am closing fast. We therefore summarise, ladies and gentlemen, the six main reasons why we are opposed and have no moral and political right to vote on these trade and investment agreements. Firstly, economic globalisation mainly serves the economic interests of multinational companies at the expense of small and medium-sized enterprises. The wealth is globally accumulated in the largest businesses and it is estimated that in 2017 the richest people in the world increased their profits by 27%. Secondly, these agreements lead to the deindustrialisation of many countries. From one moment to the other, they lose their industry and production - it reminds you of nothing, what happened in the 1970s and 1980s in Greece? - as multinational enterprises go to other countries offering cheap and insecure work. Thirdly, they are significantly burdening the environment and climate, as they lead to an increase in the quantity of long-distance goods transported from one country to another, thus increasing fuel consumption in transport. Fourthly, they weaken local economies in contrast to the logic of sustainability. Merra25 believes that as long as local societies support biodiversity, namely the production of many goods with relative self-sufficiency, countries increase their resistance to the global crisis. Fifthly, these agreements favour the logic of monoculture. Already in Greece we see it. Especially on our islands, nothing is produced any more and there is a direct dependency on one thing, tourism, which you have seen as making our islands vulnerable once there is any crisis. The one-sided development of local economies is contrary to the logic of self-sufficiency to ensure survival and safety in the next generations and the environment. And sixthly - and I conclude with this, Mr President - these agreements remove the right of societies to legislate in the future with stricter environmental and labour standards and standards, as this can lead directly to economic sanctions if they have been voted on. Therefore, Mr President, we are voting against all four agreements. Thank you very much for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-03-S1-commons.u25	Thank you. I will go to the rapporteurs. Where there are parliamentary representatives, because there are very few, I will give the floor to the Conference of Presidents, although we have said that only the parliamentary representatives will speak, but at any rate. We'll start from New Democracy. Mr. Christos Boukokouros has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-03-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr President. In a globalised environment there is no doubt that the signing of international agreements and the tightening of cooperation relations with but states at all the lengths and backs of the world is necessary. Of course, any objections are respected. I will not go into this. I think that it has been exhausted in both committees and during today's debate. We will also listen to the Minister. If I asked you to speak today, it is because I also feel the need for the New Democracy Parliamentary Group to refer to a fact that it has caused, I have a feeling, a deepest impression on the Greek people. Yesterday all Greeks witnessed a great act. World War II's youngest volunteer, a fellow countryman of ours, ninety-seven years old, a man who fought both on the fronts of the war and on the resistance to the conquerors then, but fought on the track of life with great success and created, yesterday, a move that really gives us optimism. I am referring, ladies and gentlemen, to the example of James Chounis, the well-known shipowner - who is ninety-seven years old - who yesterday gave our Armed Forces the entire property, namely EUR 23 million and sixty boats. He was, of course, also honoured by the Minister of Defence and by the Chief of the Armed Forces. Both his donation and the words Mr James Tsunis accompanied this act really shocked us. And I feel the need, Mr President, today - I think I am interpreting the feelings of all colleagues - particularly from the New Democracy Parliamentary Group - to address heartfelt, heartfelt, sincere wishes to this man who gives all his property to the Armed Forces of the country, at a time when our wider geopolitical space records constant turmoil and threats. So thank you James Csouni most warmly. We wish him long-term and we wish him to live to see the implementation of this great donation, and above all, we wish here today, from the temple of democracy, to find other worthy imitators. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-03-S1-commons.u27	Thank you too, Mr. Buquoir. From SYRIZA, Mr. Katrugalos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-03-S1-commons.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, as our rapporteurs have developed with great adequacy and depth in the debate in committee, SYRIZA supports the conventions we are discussing, as a step in the necessary strengthening of the extroversion of the Greek economy, but with the comments and reservations that our rapporteur Mrs Jackis has reasonably put in relation to the specific protection of Greek interests, particularly with regard to products of designation of origin or the Greek feta. The other rapporteur, Mr Athanasiou, has also rightly drawn our attention to something that has unfortunately been arguments, on the contrary, on the part of our delegation, namely the need not to regard as far-sighted countries of Singapore, Vietnam, Ghana and the African countries. It is not simply an unforgivable provinciality that these countries are away. It is a disregard for Europe's shifting the financial burden towards Asia in general, but also for Africa to be, towards the end of this century, one of the upcoming demographic and possibly economic forces. In 2030 - in nine years, it is not far - only a European economy will be among the top ten, Germany. 2050 will not be a European economy among the ten largest economies. This underlines, on the one hand, the need to move all Europeans as a whole, of course, in pursuit of the democratisation of the European Union and, on the other hand, the need to see the new economic reality. Napoleon said that if the whole world were a state, his capital would be in Istanbul, because, according to this great leader, there was then the centre of gravity of the balance between Asia and Europe. Modern scholars observe a great shift in the economic center of gravity. If in the 1970s it was somewhere in the middle of the Atlantic, with Europe and America to the dominant economic powers, it is already around Singapore, between Europe and America, but between the new rising Asian forces and the United States. That is why President Obama pointed out that the United States no longer perceives itself as an Atlantic country, but as a Pacific country. This also underlines the great need to strengthen our relations not only with China - we have already done so - but also with countries such as Singapore and Vietnam. I would like to say that we are proud of the government of SYRIZA because we opened an embassy in Singapore, which I had the honour of launching on a similar visit, where it also made me the honour of the Prime Minister of Singapore to hear me, stressing the need to tighten up bilateral and political and economic relations. I had also scheduled a trip to Vietnam, which was unfortunately postponed, because it coincided with the announcement of early elections. Thanks to similar extroversion, we have in the midst of the crisis actually managed to have a resurgence of our economy and exit from the memoranda, but, at the same time, also a significant increase in our exports. See the figures: Our exports in 2000 were only 12.7 billion. In 2017 they had already more than doubled, they had become 28.9 billion. In 2019, when we handed over power, 33 billion had been formed, an increase compared to the previous year of 4.9%, a trend that was not strengthened, unfortunately decreased in the coming years. Obviously this multi-dimensional foreign policy does not depend solely on the economy. It also has a clear geopolitical footprint. That is why we were the first country of the European Union, in our administration, to rule SYRIZA, which concluded a protocol on how to cooperate within the framework of the One Belt One Road with China. We were also the first country of the European Union to conclude a similar memorandum of economic cooperation with the Eurasian Union, the mechanism, namely, the integration of Russia and the former Soviet Union. To conclude, Mr President, I would like to tell you that the same multi-dimensional foreign policy we fear is not followed and we have stressed many times our concern about delays in diplomacy at the present time. Obviously, there is no time for analytical development, but by closing, we need to stress our concern about developments in the Cyprus issue, in view of the forthcoming five-day conference and stress that our country should also insist on the implementation of the UN's fixed decisions on bi-zonal bi-communal federation, overcoming the new positions opposed to international law by the so-called 'Turkish Cypriot administration', but also by Turkey, while at the same time making use of the framework of Guitiers resulting from the acquis communautaire of Crans - Montana, on the need for Cyprus to get rid of the unacceptable guarantee regime, not to be guarded as a country of the European Union from any other country and, in general, to continue to address the Cyprus question of being treated as a violation of international law and not just as a bi-communal dispute. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-03-S1-commons.u29	Thank you too, Mr. Catrugale. The Parliamentary Representative from the Change Movement, Mr. Andreas Loverdos, is called at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-03-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Good morning, Mrs. and Mr. Ambassadors. Thank you very much for being here, and we hope you have an interpretation to understand what we say, speaking of the ratification of these four agreements between the Hellenic Republic and your countries and two other countries. But I'll start from where Mr. Katrugalos finished his report on the Cyprus issue. Indeed, and in view of the 'five days' and, more generally, the attitude - Mr Minister, I address you - of your Government which has not reacted to the position of Turkey as President Erdogan and the Foreign Minister on the solution of the two states. This proposal directly violates any decision of the United Nations, whether it is the Security Council or the General Assembly. It is a big issue, which is not a Greek-Turkish issue, obviously, but is an international issue since the 1970s, invasion and occupation since then. We therefore expect initiatives from the government. Now, as far as the agreements are concerned. These are four agreements between the European Union and its Member States on the one hand and the Republic of Vietnam, the SADC EPA States, Ghana and Singapore. They're mixed deals. In other words, as I have said to the committee, on the one hand, but on the other hand, the European Union as a subject of international law, as well as its Member States. This is mixed agreements. They are beneficial to the European Union. They are also beneficial to our country, despite the fact that we have some losses from the tariff sector. The main thing, however, is that these agreements are beneficial. I note positively that these agreements have been signed recently, since 2019 - the most recent - by 2016. In other words, the Hellenic Republic at last quickly ratifys the agreements it has to ratify. It quickly ratifys - and ultimately ratifys with the President of the Republic - the agreements that its government has signed. And that's very positive. And I noted without stinging that this rapid ratification as a process was initiated by the previous government, with which we had a series of conflicts on too many issues, but when there was something good, I was saying it. I will make, by utilizing the rest of my speech today in the House, references to the two meetings, Minister, of the Committee on Foreign Affairs with the respective French and Italian Committees last week, where we, as Greek Socialists, PASOK, the Change Movement, also have on the Italian side ratified this agreement on the Exclusive Economic Zone which Greece has ratified. The President of the Commission to me said that the Standing Committee has done so and pending the decision of the Parliamentary Assembly, which will take place when the government crisis currently exists. Yesterday, I also said that they should sign what they find positive in their words, EastMed. They haven't signed him. I also said yesterday to the French, on behalf of our party, PASOK, the Change Movement, that the process of the defence cooperation agreement must be speeded up, which was going quickly to be signed, but it has stopped. Of course - and I guess I do - but I don't typically know the reasons for the delay. I stressed yesterday and I repeat it today, ladies and gentlemen, that the defence cooperation agreements signed by Greece are very serious. One was signed after the transfer, with the United Arab Emirates. They are not formal agreements, diplomatic signatures with the text of public relations. It's critical agreements. So the agreement with France is crucial for Greece, but - as I said yesterday and I repeat today - and more generally for the Southeast Mediterranean, where there is a forefront now, France, Greece, Emirata and Egypt, which is stirring up Turkey's aggression. I would like to close my position, referring to the dialogue and the first round of exploratory contacts. I think that both PASOK, the Change Movement, and I personally have been verified as to how we faced the start of the exploratory contacts, of the sixteenth first cycle of them. We had said - and I repeat today - that it is very positive to open up another dialogue channel. The Simitis government with the Foreign Minister of Papandreou in 2002 launched the process of exploratory contacts, which is not negotiation, is a stage before the negotiation. I have no time to say specific details about the nature of the investigative contacts and the history of 2002-2016, when they were interrupted after the coup in Turkey, but a channel of communication is opening up important. We salute him. We're absolutely positive. We give space and time to dialogue. Together with the confidence-building measures of the Defence Ministries and the contacts of the Secretary-General of the two Foreign Ministries are the channels of communication between the two states and are very much preferable, even compared to what we experienced in the terrible year 2020 with Turkey's aggression. But, as it turns out, the great interest which some government MPs are responsible for has developed around this issue, not in terms of optimism, but with a sign of optimism - 'we are going well' - has not been verified the next day. The dialogue is open, of course, and the assessments made are many. And we're making assessments. I personally appreciate it. I can understand and recommend to my party's foreign minister what needs to be done, what the position of our party is, contributing to the position of our country. However, the excessively positive role played by some must be an example of avoidance. We must be modestly optimistic, serious, so that we can at least explain to the Greek citizens why on the day and on the eve of dialogue, perhaps the next day, there was a journalistic interest, and from the aftermath everything was stopped. Because experience says the course of exploratory contacts is long. Exploratory contacts are an attempt to understand territorial waters, in relation to the rest of the issues, to see how we can reach a level of negotiations and, therefore, we must be very serious - the good word is that - as parliamentarians and political parties when we address Greek public opinion on this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-03-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr. Loverdos. Parliamentary Representative from Greek Solution, Mr Konstantinos Hetas. Here, Mr. Heta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-03-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we're feeling a little weird today, weird. Timing in life, the moment, i.e. the juncture, plays a very great role. And because you are an experienced politician, I think you know it very well. I say it because here we represent society, the people, we are the National Representation and out there there is real money, we cry great, and we are talking about Botswana. It's a little weird. I don't know how we can balance them. You'll tell me, on the other hand, that this has to be done. But we have to talk about Ghana and Botswana here and out there, it's a mess! What can we say to the restaurants that have tied stone in the neck? What can we say at the retail trade for people who die? What can we say to family members who grow at EUR 534? What can we tell hotel owners, private people, that today we, the National Representation speaks of Botswana? I'm not saying we shouldn't talk. I'm going to go to that, and I'm going to tell why we're talking about. What are we going to say to these more than three hundred thousands of pensioners who have worked honestly for three, four years to get their pension and have taken them out of a EUR 300 raft to live in particular, Mr Hatzidakis? And we're talking about Ghana and Botswana? Are we going to tell them that today we are dealing with Vietnam agreements and various southern African countries? I really don't think we're creating a very good picture. But as soon as the European Union, Minister, closes our eyes mainly for economic reasons, we are immediately moving to ratify all kinds of agreements. Once the European Union has given the signal, Greece is rushing to do so. I wish that as a government you showed the same precursor and the same reflexes to help the hundreds of thousands of Greek citizens who are looking for and looking for a board of salvation. And to say that the European Union - to say it! - Show us unresolved solidarity and solidarity on issues that burn us as a country? Let me say that it's going to the old bell, I'll do that, and that's what our partners are helping us! But that's not the way it is. What are our European partners doing that just to close our eyes on such issues, are we going to ratify agreements? So what are they doing about Turkish provocation? What are our partners doing? They don't do anything. What happened to the sanctions on Terrorist Erdogan? Nothing at all. What is the European Union doing about illegal immigration? Nothing at all. And since I mentioned it, many of these invisible ghost people, who have not been recorded anywhere, the illegal immigrants, are also from the countries we are talking about today. Let's talk about this. Good and holy trade agreements, we do not say that you do not do them, but at some point Greece will have to learn to demand, Minister, before giving. We can't go on, give, give. And don't tell us now that Greece has benefits from these agreements. So don't go into any details. What do we have to gain from tariff facilities to keep the products of these countries in the European Union? Absolutely nothing to gain from us. In most of these countries, Botswana, Lesotho, Mozambique, Namibia, residents live below the poverty line. We don't have anything to take from them, just give it one more time. And we're going to the important thing, Minister - don't leave me now - for Greek products. Because you represent Greece outside. What, really, is the New Democracy Government's policy? You can answer now that you're coming to Stepma. Tell us what your policy is in practice, not in theory, for Greek products. Because the Greek Solution from the beginning argued that we need to boost local, local products, make them accessible, ask people on the shelves of supermarkets, motivate entrepreneurs to put Greek products on their shelves. These shelves are now full of Chinese and Turkish cheap products, Zimbabwe oranges and they go by saying. What did you do about Greek products? Nothing. It's a question. Answer us. What did you do about Macedonian products in foreign policy? I remember as now in my town, Thessaloniki, the great feast with that "M", this brand that would help spread Macedonian products around the world. What did you do? You did a hole in the water. Another bubble! You didn't do anything. In "M" we're left! You're making fun of the Greeks. We do not mock the Greeks and prove it in practice. A MEP has the Greek Solution, Mr Athanasios, and he managed to fight the battle within the European Parliament - what does that say? Whatever you want, you succeed - and forced the entire dairy company in Iceland to download the feta products from the shelves. A Member of the European Parliament, because he was willing and willing to help the country!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-03-S1-commons.u33	Why did you contact me?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-03-S1-commons.u34	So, because I saw you clipboard. No, it's not personal. We did it. So, what have you, in practice, and not in the theory, 'we will do, do we have plans'? What does the government do for the Macedonians with Macedonian wines? What's he doing? Nothing. What are you doing about the strategy of penetrating and spreading the scorpions from our neighbours, who are riding the name of our Macedonia? Nothing. We watch them every day and record them, scandals every day. Do something, duck. That's what you're doing. You're not doing anything else. As you are doing in our proposal for an examination of Skopje. And there's nothing there. Look, then, at what is worth and priority. At the moment they have some value and priority. On this basis, gentlemen of the government. Take measures that are truly effective to alleviate the Greeks. Support our businesses, support the goods, products of Greek land, make these products competitive, so that they can infiltrate our products on foreign markets. That's what you do. Don't tell us your program you've never been implementing. Besides, you're used to deceiving the world politically. Another electoral agenda and programme and others are now being implemented. Acts on what we told you: boycott Turkish products in our country. Do it now, we've been calling it for months. That is how we will put effective pressure on Turkey, in this way. So stop this policy you are pursuing. Stop handsomely giving everyone other than the Greeks. Ask, demand, Greece must now demand practical reciprocity, solidarity from our partners. Greece is demanding from the European Union. Work is needed, Minister, our fellow citizens and our country and not much talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-03-S1-commons.u35	Thank you very much, Mr. Heta. The Parliamentary spokesman from Mera25, Mr Fotini Bakada, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-03-S1-commons.u36	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'll talk from the seat because I won't be using all year round. I shall begin with a report by Mr Katrugalos on the democratisation of Europe. Remind me and share with you - and for historical reasons, if you would like, beyond the political usefulness - that Diem25, a part of which, an electoral arm, is the Merra25 in Greece, mentioned the need to democratise Europe in its manifesto when it was founded on 9 February 2016. So, since then, we have begun to see, if you wish, the disappointment of the citizens of Europe by the European institutions, the disappointment that has arisen from the critical decisions taken and continue to be made in the interpretation of the citizens, which are politically and socially exclusive, which are baptized as technocratic. They are moves and procedures that deprive Greek citizens of democratic control of decisions. Today it is certain that the need for democratisation and the democratisation of Europe has greater and deeper meaning than ever. Democratic control, transparency and full information for the citizens to be the decision-makers is extremely important. I am therefore pleased and welcome, as a PART25, the consensual that begins to acquire on the need to democratise former comrades, who, unfortunately, did not contribute to the democratisation of Europe. I shall end with a little mention of Mr Tsunni's donation, mentioned by my fellow Parliamentary representative of the New Democracy. Indeed, it is a particularly touching donation, a touching move. We all have to thank this man because he left all his property, and even while he is alive, to the Greek public. We hope that there will also be an example for other shipowners, businessmen and members of the Greek oligarchy, because sincerely, if all those who have benefited from the crisis, who have made this opportunity over all these years, the hand in the pocket might have been much better today. That is why we owe a thanks to the man who has put the common interest above his own, which not all the others who belong to the public, if you like, to a business lobby in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-03-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mrs. Bakadima. We'll close with the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr. Miltiadis Varvichiotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-03-S1-commons.u38	Mr President, before the Minister takes the floor, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-03-S1-commons.u39	I'm sorry, Minister. Here you go, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-03-S1-commons.u40	I apologise to Mr Varvitsiotis. Mr Varvitsiotis, today in the 'NEA', there is a text of six important political figures from Europe for the future of Europe, for the future of the planet after the end of the pandemic. I would like to ask you, if you have this in mind, a comment, because it has very important aspects, to raise many important issues, particularly economic, environmental, technological and fiscal relaxation - this is a matter of mine, reading - and for the year 2022. If you take this into account, please very much make a comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-03-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr. Loverdos. Mr Miltiadis Varvitsiotis has the floor. Come on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-03-S1-commons.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would also like to welcome Mr Sedatha Ahmet to the Greek Parliament the ambassador of Vietnam, Mr Gwen Man, and Mr Sedatha Ahmed, who today are here to follow the work of this House, after my invitation, because I believe that we must understand that the development of multilateral relations and through the European Union actually strengthens the role of Greece. Today we are opening the window to two hundred and thirty million people and giving access, with easy formalities, to exports and investment - to a total trade volume between the European Union and the countries we are talking about - of EUR 130 billion. It is too big a bet we want to serve. And I would like us to be very careful about the way we talk about other aspects of the planet. And I will fully agree with Mr. Katrugalo. The world has changed. Sub-Saharan Africa is a region of the planet which is growing rapidly. Ghana has 6.5% growth in recent years. And if the images that have shocked the planet of entire underprivileged populations are still engraved in our memory, today we are talking about a rapid economic growth, to solve important problems related to child mortality, the development of technology penetration, the spread of mobile telephony, which brings the whole planet much closer. And because we have a strange perception of the way our country is exporting and what products our country is exporting, having only left in the agri-food cycle, I would like to talk to you about the country with which we have the biggest trade relationships with which we are currently ratifying the agreement, Singapore, which we have an export amount of about EUR 400 million, and to tell you what we export to that country. Export mineral fuels, oils, distillation products, bituminous materials, waxes and minerals. We export boilers, machines, appliances and mechanical inventions and parts of these machines and apparatus. We export packing machines. We export ropes, pharmaceuticals. We export aluminium and articles made of aluminium, and after all these categories come the agri-food products, which, also in the presence of the Greek diplomatic authorities, are gradually starting to gain ground. So we must also support Greek production and the Greek industry and the industries in which Greece can have special products of technological added value. I would like to continue, Mr President, and say that these agreements, which have all been signed by the European Union during the period of governance of the country by SYRIZA in 2016, 2018 and 2019, are being ratified today. And we thank Mr Loverdos and I agree with him that it is important to ratify them and it was one of the right actions of the previous leadership of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to run these sanctions in the House, which we do not want to relax. And that is an answer to why we are calling today, especially the way this House operates, which is more difficult for legislation and more slow and less available days. I would like to say that it is very important to realise that, as members of the European Union, we also have the opportunity to exercise to the countries from which illegal immigrants are coming, through these agreements, a special burden for the establishment of refocusing agreements. And this is a cornerstone of the policy that we have adopted within the European Union. In other words, the new Migration Pact will force Europe to take advantage of its opportunities to return people who are not entitled to asylum and are not entitled to remain in the European Union. It will therefore be able to return them to the countries from which they come, putting an end to this void that exists today, where some, who cannot actually benefit from asylum in the European Union, remain in it as illegal immigrants without having the right to legalise their presence here. Finally, I would like to make two comments on what has been said by the parliamentary representatives. But before I arrive at that, I would like to conclude by saying that the products produced by the Greek land, which have a designation of origin, preserve their presence in the countries with which we agree and it is very important that the feta, the Kalamas and Amphissia olives, the Castoria beans, the yellow cheeses the case, the gravier and the cephalogravier, olive oil, the Corinthian raisin, the kosk Kozanis, the mask of Chios, the wine of Samos, the ouzo and the tsipouro, which will save us a lot of effort and reactions in the future. We now go to the comments made by the parliamentary representatives and you will allow me, Mr President, to refer to the question of whether or not this government is making or not making a multitude of foreign policy. I think it is clear that we have deepened our relations with countries that we have not had in the past. A characteristic example is the deepening of relations with Israel, Egypt and the United Arab Emirates. We have the Prime Minister, who has made most bilateral visits to exchange views from all the Prime Ministers of the European Union. You know that? And, according to "POLITICO", he is the most regular interlocutor. I will tell you that with the South African leadership it is also at regular conferences, but also with other parts of the planet, and within the pandemic period, precisely to maintain and revive the relations that we should have at political level, in addition to the other relationships with countries with which we are not neighbour and do not have frequent and regular contacts. The second thing I would like to comment on is the remarks we have heard about the Cyprus issue. It is clear that the Greek Government is coming to all levels and to all negotiations in view of the implementation of the United Nations resolutions, which set out the framework for these negotiations. Anything that goes beyond this framework and considers that it can create a new feat on the island of Cyprus is not something that the Hellenic Republic can in no way support. And we go to the case of dialogue on the future of Europe, the important contribution that leaders make today with their joint article. You know, this dialogue a year and a half ago, when it was announced, had no special value in the sense that it was not moved. Today, Europe has faced an economic crisis and a health crisis, and European awareness has also faced weaknesses. Do not forget that Europe - which we accuse of - had no health crisis within its responsibilities. It was acquired with the support of the Member States and tried to coordinate policies that evaded its direct responsibilities. So today we need to discuss the role of Europe and the coordination of such major challenges - health, environmental - which are certainly met by the recovery package to a large extent, challenges that have to do with immigration, challenges that have to do with economic uploading and, of course, challenges that have to do with the governance systems in the European Union, as well as the solidarity and strength that it must show to the rest of the world. Finally, a reference to two issues of topical and urgent importance. First of all, I would like to congratulate the Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy for his reference to James Tsunis. I am one of those who have been in the honour of knowing him for too many years. James Tsounis has been a dedicated patriot and he is a dedicated patriot and a consistent brother of the Armed Forces throughout his life, not only today, who closes ninety-three - and we wish him long-term - he has decided to complete his desire to donate all his property to the Greek Armed Forces. And I think the Armed Forces should give him maximum prices as an act of respect for his timely and present offer. However, I would also like to refer to a last night's incident, the terrible attack which Mr Bogdanos took and which I believe the entire Greek people are condemning.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-03-S1-commons.u43	To say it, to say the whole thing!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-03-S1-commons.u44	And I want all of the Greek parties to be placed on this, because I think they are reluctant - and I think they are reluctant! - the condemnation of terrorist acts aimed at declaring the Members of the Greek Parliament and representatives of the Greek people. I've been one of them, they've burned my office down, completely putting people's lives at risk. They are acts which and we must politically condemn and give clear directions to the security forces to be immediately identified and their responsible ones to be accountable to justice, because we cannot in any case leave unpunished acts that afflict the sovereignty of the Greek people and its democratic expression. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-03-S1-commons.u45	And you've got a piece of legislation, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-03-S1-commons.u46	If I may, Mr President, I have a legislative improvement to announce...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-03-S1-commons.u47	The penalty?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-03-S1-commons.u48	... relating to the title of one of the contracts to be ratified.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-03-S1-commons.u49	You're not allowed...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-03-S1-commons.u50	By mistake...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-03-S1-commons.u51	By mistake!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-03-S1-commons.u52	By mistake to the title of the draft law: ‘Under the Agreement on the Protection of Investments between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the SADC EPA States, of the other part’, the words ‘Investment protection’ shall be replaced by ‘Economic Partnership’.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-03-S1-commons.u53	That's what it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-03-S1-commons.u54	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-03-S1-commons.u55	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-03-S1-commons.u56	Mr. Catrugale, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-03-S1-commons.u57	Mr President, I would just like to say the self-evident thing, namely that it is a common place for all the wings of this House to condemn all individual terrorist acts, as well as the obligation of the police to intervene and investigate. It is also a self-evident obligation and duty for the police to respond to its mission by the Constitution in the context of democracy and respect for the rule of law that this imposes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-03-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr. Catrugale. Here, Mr. Heta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-03-S1-commons.u59	Mr President, we would just like to mention that the Greek Solution has clearly condemned the attack on the house since last night - which also has the importance of - Mr Costas Bogdanos, despite the political disagreements...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-03-S1-commons.u60	One more, the other one.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-03-S1-commons.u61	...and despite the fact that this Member supports a government that is making wrong moves and proves dangerous for the country. That's something else. It is unacceptable, even if we disagree, to try to terrorise people. We condemned it very clearly yesterday. We're not talking about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-03-S1-commons.u62	Mrs. Bakadima has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-03-S1-commons.u63	It goes without saying that political differences do not belong to such action, in such a case. It goes without saying that we too condemn it and have stated it since yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-03-S1-commons.u64	Thank you very much, Mrs. Bakadima. Mr Katsotis has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-03-S1-commons.u65	The JRC has issued a specific communication, with its content condemning the attack, but showing what it is serving.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-03-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr Katsotis. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, the articles and all the draft laws of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is adjourned and they will be voted on separately. We are entering the resolution on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: 'Structuring the Interim Economic Partnership Agreement between Ghana, on the one hand, and the European Community and its Member States, on the other'. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-03-S1-commons.u67	Ladies and gentlemen, since you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-03-S1-commons.u68	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-03-S1-commons.u69	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: 'Under the Interim Agreement on Economic Partnership between Ghana, of the one part, and the European Community and its Member States, of the other part,' was adopted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and of the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-03-S1-commons.u70	We are entering the resolution on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: ‘Under the Agreement on the Protection of Investments between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Singapore, of the other part’. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-03-S1-commons.u71	Ladies and gentlemen, since you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-03-S1-commons.u72	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-03-S1-commons.u73	The draft foreign law: ‘Undertaking of the Agreement on the Protection of Investment between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Singapore, of the other part’, was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and of the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-03-S1-commons.u74	We are entering the resolution on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: ‘Under the Agreement on the Protection of Investments between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Vietnam, of the other part’. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-03-S1-commons.u75	Ladies and gentlemen, since you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-03-S1-commons.u76	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-03-S1-commons.u77	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: ‘Under the Agreement on the Protection of Investments between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Vietnam, of the other part’, was accepted by a majority in a single debate, in principle, of the articles and the whole of the articles and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-03-S1-commons.u78	We enter the resolution on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: ‘Under the Agreement on the Protection of Investments between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the SADC EPA States, of the other part’. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-03-S1-commons.u79	Ladies and gentlemen, since you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-03-S1-commons.u80	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-03-S1-commons.u81	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: ‘Undertaking of the Economic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the SADC EPA States, of the other part’, was accepted by a majority in a single debate, in principle, of the articles and of the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-03-S1-commons.u82	I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to ratify the minutes of today's sitting to vote on all these drafts.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-03-S1-commons.u83	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-03-S1-commons.u84	With the consent of the House at 12.35' the meeting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday, February 4, 2021, at 10.00, on the subject of Parliament's work: legislative work: only debate and vote at the beginning, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "Action of General Censuses of the year 2021 by the Greek Statistical Authority, urgent arrangements to address the effects of the COVID pandemic -19, urgent financial and tax arrangements and other provisions".
