ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] The sitting shall be opened. I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, today is the Holocaust Memorial Day of the Holocaust of Greek Jews. Every year from this position we honor the memory of thousands of Greek Jews who died in the Nazi concentration camps and we are proud to remember the self-renunciation of Greek Christians who, at the risk of their lives, saved many of their Jewish brothers from certain death. One of the most painful pages of world history had to write a song of solidarity and brotherhood among Christians and Jews at the same time. In every corner of Greece from Macedonia, Thrace, Epirus and Thessaly to Crete, the Istanbul and the Dodecanese with the Christians jointly formed a living social, cultural and economic fabric. Their close ties were tested and sealed within time and even through shared struggles in historically critical times, such as during the Asia Minor campaign and later during the Greek-Italian war. The Greek Jews stood by their Christian brothers with heroic and self - sacrifice. The irony is that in the next few years it became those who would seek help from their brothers in their own moments of testimony, in a history of inconceivable horrors, with massive pogroms, with displacements, with disasters and snares of property, with cemeteries and vandalism of historical monuments, with extortion, humiliation and terrorism, and finally with the climax of the atrocity in Poland's concentration camps. Thus the homeland mourned the loss of nearly 90% of its Jewish population, the loss of a significant part of its history. The endless lists of victims include thirty Greek MPs, whose names have been given an honorary place in Peristeri of the Parliament. Personalities such as Daniel Alalouf, Leon Gateni, Albert Tsene, Zack Ventura, Michel Kazes, David Soulam, Mindesh Besanji, Isaac Sikak and so many others. So, by honouring for another year their memory, but also the memory of all Jewish heroes and witnesses, I would like to make a promise that we will continue with conviction and with faith to work for a proud country, made of humanity and solidarity, because such values know no borders but deep roots in the hearts of the Greek people. I'd like to ask you to keep a minute's silence. [[At this point the Members of Parliament stand are holding a minute's silence.]] Thank you very much. Memory eternity!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Before we start the debate, let me have some announcements. I announce to the House that the Standing Committee on Social Affairs presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Health: a) the Donation Convention between the Greek State, the Joint Benefit Foundation called "John S. Latsis (John S. Latis Public Benefit Foundation)" and the N.D. under the name ‘Athens General Hospital'C. (b) the donation contract between the Greek State, 4th Y.P. Macedonia and Thrace, the Anticancer Hospital of Thessaloniki "Theagenio", Anna Maria Louise Ioannis Latsis and the Hellenic Anticancer Society and other provisions of the Ministry of Health." Ladies and gentlemen, I also have the honour to announce to the House that the Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs is informing the House that four questions will be discussed in writing. There will not be debated, due to a blockade by parliament, the third with number 328/19-1-2021, a timely question for the first cycle of MP I Athens, Mera25 Mr. Angelikos Adamopoulou, to the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Theodoros Livanios, on the subject: "Serious complaints of the Association of Technical Broadcasting". The first question under number 333/22-1-2021 will be debated now in the first cycle of MP B1's North Athens Sector of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Konstantinos Zachariadis to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Accession agencies invoked by pandemic and non-Accession procedures in the Attica Region". The current question will be answered by the Minister present, Mr. Mavroudis Voridis. Mr. Zachariadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u4	Mr President, thank you. If I may, I will make a very brief reference to the Memorial Day of the Greek Jewish witnesses and Holocaust heroes. We need to think about such days and hours what memory means to us is a lasting day fight against intolerance, darkness, racism. And in order that this memory may not only be a reference, it can and must also be specific policies, policies of cohesion and solidarity, so that in our country and in Europe and the world we never have Nazism, never fascism, never war anymore. It is a lasting and daily struggle of memory and truth against oblivion. Secondly, I would like to thank the Minister of the Interior who accepts parliamentary dialogue and is present today - not all ministries - so that we can discuss a number of issues. Minister, we met in this Chamber about ten days ago when the Greek Parliament legislated the bill for the ASP. And you in your first speech as Minister of the Interior made many specific references to the need to have merit, to have a framework, to have regulation, to have planning, to return the country to the whole unbelievable mess and to the incredible salt of non-ACP recruitments. I told you, then, that one of the reasons why we did not vote for this law - apart from our individual disagreements at the percentages of graduates, with the diplomas, with one, with the other we made concrete proposals, some of you accepted them, some of you rejected them - is that you will be the first to even dry the printing ink from the VET. And so you did. Before the week was closed, the Attica Region issued a recruitment notice of four hundred six non-ACP people. But you'll tell me: "We have COVID. What can we do, how can we move on?' The positions that could be associated with COVID are sixty-five, all the others have nothing to do with COVID. So we're going to a process in the Attica region without measurable criteria by a committee appointed by the District Director himself, with a post on the Internet on a page hidden from 17 January and for one and a half days by 19 January at 12 noon, in a process that is unprecedented and outside of what you were saying. And I ask you, Mr. Voridis: what does the interior ministry say? How will the Ministry of Interior intervene? Can they proceed with such procedures and people see that on one hand we vote SAP and the next day they are recruited outside SAP? And let me ask you one more question, if I have too little time. That is why you made the changes from the Municipal and Regional Councils to the Economic Committee and now you want to change the electoral law? Do you not want a few mayors or regional directors to be controlled either by the City Council or by popular social accountability and you want to have a recruitment party, despite what you are saying? Because, Mr Voridis, I am trying to read the interview you gave yesterday in a well-known newspaper and read behind the lines. Why do you change the electoral law and cut the second Sunday to 40% or 43%? You're afraid of getting the progressive forces together in the second round? Do you know that the conservative party in Greece as electricity is always solid, but always minority? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Do you not believe in the independence of the institution of local government and are you trying to adapt it as a micrograph of central controversy? Do you not believe in the European way local government operates? Don't you want there to be a check? Do you want to hire outside CAP? Explain to us.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u5	Mr. Zachariadis, you see the clock, don't you?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr President. I'll start with some basics. "You are" and "do it" should start to differentiate in your mind. I'm not the Attica Region. I am the Greek Government, the Minister of the Interior. So in this debate we have to make the individual responsibility clear. Question No 1, and a basic one: Has there been something illegal in the Attica region in the recruitments you mentioned? Reply: Attica has taken advantage of the possibility offered by Article 74 of Law 4745/2020, which says that it is permitted under the procedure provided for there to be recruited to LGDs 1 and 2 in cases of immediate need for preventive or repressive measures on grounds of a serious threat to public health. Is this a derogation from the recruitment procedure of the AACC, Mr Zachariadis? It is. Is this a derogation voted on by the Greek Parliament? Yes, sir. Does it make sense that the Greek Parliament voted for this derogation? Yes, because you must admit that we are in exceptional circumstances. When we have to deal with the coronary and there are additional control and surveillance measures every week, many of which are transferred to self-government, obviously and cannot handle these self-government with the same number of staff. So I would like to ask you this: Your position is that in the middle of COVID these recruitments should be carried out in accordance with the regular procedure of the AACC? The regular procedure of the AACC, I inform the House, lasted for the last four years. And if it's not four years, it's two. Will we hire staff for the needs of COVID using this process, that is, when COVID is finished? And I'm talking about legislative possibilities again. However, I suppose we discussed this in the House. Now, you are asking me whether these specific recruitments made by the Attica Region, by using this legislative option, are linked to COVID. The answer here is double. If you're asking me if I have control, I'm telling you that I have no power of preventive control. If you are asking me whether it has control over another body, I answer yes, it has the AACC, which can - based on the classic provisions of Law 2190/94 - check their recruitment and the necessity of this procedure. And I'm telling you a third. This can also be checked by the Regional Council. You have a party to the Regional Council, I suppose he can ask and receive answers about the number, the faces and the necessity. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] So I do not know what more we need to say here about a law that has been passed by the House, so when it was to be discussed, debated, and, secondly, about an action which concerns self-government, which, because it is self-government, decides in accordance with its own needs and is controlled by its own procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u8	Here, Mr. Zachariadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u9	First of all, Minister, I am pleased that you are taking your distance - and you are doing well - from what Mr Patoulis is doing in the Attica region, either by stating that the region and the institution of the Ministry of Interior - is quite obvious - either by reading behind words and behind lines, about this practice. About whether there's anything illegal, obviously there's nothing illegal. But I think that for many years in this country we have agreed, the whole political system, that what is legal is not moral. So I don't denounce you for illegality. I denounce you because what you are doing is immoral and insulting to the Greek people, one day the same party to legislate in this Chamber supposedly the merits, the tests and the transparency and a few kilometres away from the same party, another person, of course, to pre-indicate four hundred six recruitments. Is that a derogation? You said it in your honor. Of course it's a derogation. Does it make sense? No, of course not. It doesn't make sense. Sixty-five of the sixteen posts related to COVID could be logical. The secretarial support, for example, is a staffing that is of immediate need? Have you read one by one of the four hundred six posts published? Only sixty-five are related to COVID. And can I tell you something else? I'm not telling you to go to a competition and, while we have COVID, get the results out after two years. You suggest that Mr. Patoulis ask the AACC to draw his paintings, to make him a molecules, to make him a proxy, to go into urgent procedures with criteria, with merit. Aren't you the party of excellence? So, Mr Voridis, the excellence shown by Mr Patoulis in the Attica region? A one-and-a-half-day notice with a committee nominated by him, without the right to object. If this in the year 2021 and on the pretext of pandemic is not the definition of 'partnership', 'people', 'principality' and 'anxiety', then really what is it, Minister? I also asked you the supplementary question about the electoral law, because you understand that such things could not apply in a country where the political system in local government would impose consensus and understanding. How long did Mr. Patolis take in the first round? He got 30%. If he had to consent, consult and sign up for such recruitments with other opposition groups, would anyone dare to proceed to such a process? Oh, no! Mr Vorides, even today, in 2021, see how self-government works in Europe. Do not use the first and second grades of self-government as a party lever for opaque relationships. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u10	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u11	Let's start with the last one. It's a simple analogue, isn't it?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u12	You're asking me?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u13	It's just proportional, isn't it, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u14	You overthrow her.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u15	If I remember correctly, Mr Patoulis in the first round - I was looking at the results now, Mr Zachariadis - took 38%. There is no majority in the Regional Council.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u16	He's on the Economic Commission.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u17	So what prevented him? He didn't stop anything. But now we are going to the major one, because obviously what we are discussing is 'playing' in reality by confusing institutions and limits and doing something that is extremely bad. Self-government, Mr. Zachariadis, it's self-government. Self-government, of course, is criticised, like all political institutions, for the choices it makes every time. But to blame the interior minister for the choices made by a self-government body is deeply dangerous, because what do you really mean behind it? That the self-government body should not have the right to self-government and make decisions and be judged for these decisions, but actually to remove it from it, to turn it into a central centralised state. I know the philosophy of the Left - it does not surprise me - that everything must go back to the state and that self-government must not have any competence. I know that. It's within your central logic. But it's not ours. We will continue to trust self-government. I urge you, instead of working on the Greek Parliament with the choices made by a self-government body, to say on your side - Mrs Durou was elected, not elected, elected - you should tell Mrs Dourou to go to check if something does not like the recruitment policy that Mr Patoulis has. To come to Parliament and tell me that the Minister for the Interior and the Greek Parliament should deal with what the Attica Region did, what the alpha municipality did, what the beta municipality did, what any self-government agency did, shows that you are confused. Here all we could talk about is this, whether the provision is correct. And I ask you directly: is the order correct or wrong? Should there be the possibility of exceptional recruitment to deal with COVID? Yes or no? If you say 'no' to me, take the responsibility of this 'no' too. 'No' means that we will need healthcare, and we will not be able to do it. 'No' means that we will need administrative recruitment - because COVID is not just a health issue, it has a supervisory mechanism, it has things we need to monitor - and we will not be able to do them. Then, of course, Mr Zachariadis, in the classical way of SYRIZA, you will go out and report to us because we have not been recruited to cope with COVID. All the way up together! And hiring to do, but not making them. And when we facilitate the recruitment, "this is rousphetological." So the only thing we can discuss in this House is the feasibility of the regulation. As far as I'm not concerned, I'm telling you, he's in charge of the AACC. I'm done telling you this. 'Cause I see you're making announcements, you're setting up now. What are you nervous about? We'll talk about the electoral system in self-government. You will listen to them all, you will listen to us and our opinion. You will listen to the CEDEFOP and its opinion. You will listen to the Committee of the Regions. They will tell you the experience of your legislation. The mayors will tell you what's going on, they'll tell you what's going on. We'll talk here. He'll come to the House and we'll have time to place ourselves. We're not ahead of each other. I know your position, it has been expressed in your legislative position, with the law you have passed, a law disastrous to the functioning of self-government.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u18	We shall now proceed to the next topical and urgent debate. The State Secretary for Foreign Affairs, Mr Konstantinos Frangogiannis, will answer. It is the second under number 343/25-1-2021 topical question by MP B2' Western Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Kritona Arseni, on the subject: "An accident at the nuclear plant in Audiy of Turkey". Mr Arseni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u19	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'll take some time for the Holocaust Memory Day, too. Because I come from Thessaloniki, it is the city that had the largest population of Jews who were lost in the Holocaust. The first trade unions in the port were Jews and the largest population in the city for a period of time. What concerns us today, on this day of memory, is that we see the clouds of intolerance and authoritarianism regrouping over Europe and our country. These bans, both of meetings and of the freedom of photojournalists, control of press and information, which is almost all in a political area, and so much more, you know, a few years ago would not be acceptable. So we fear that these daily authoritarian decisions by the Government in fact call into question the acquis communautaire, which came as a pretext of the great crime of the Holocaust. In Akuyu, Minister, we have a crime in progress. Already, in 2010 and 2011, I had asked the European Commission as a MEP then to stop this plant and had passed on related references to Parliament's nuclear reports. We can see, however, that the matter is out of order now. We had the first explosions at the nuclear plant under construction in Akuyu. So my request is clear to you, because, as you know, yes, the distance from Cyprus is low, but from the Dodecanese and Greece as a whole is negligible, considering what the consequences of Chernobyl were, which was so far away. So what we're asking you to do is internationalize the issue, ask for a factory safety check, at least, if we can't manage to stop this factory. At the very least, to check its safety by European and international experts and, obviously, to get this issue on the Euro-Turkish agenda, the issue of the safety of the nuclear plant in Akugiou, which is within a strong seismic region. Too dangerous! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u20	Mr. Frangoyannis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u21	Mr President, Mr Arseni, first of all, I would like to convey to you that I find a little unfortunate the comparison between the temporary ban on meetings for more than a hundred people on purely COVIDs with the memory of the Holocaust and the Jews. As regards the question you are asking, I would like to start by saying that Greece does not agree with the use of nuclear energy. It's something we've said in the past. We do not agree with nuclear energy for electricity production. This is a permanent Greek position, on the basis of which the country has repeatedly and in every direction expressed its strong concern about the security aspect and the direct or indirect impact on the environment from the use of nuclear energy. That's been known for years. Particular sensitivity is also demonstrated on the Greek side for the use of energy and the construction of nuclear plants, particularly in seismic areas such as the one in Akigios, which poses additional risks. Our country, Mr Arsenis, is following up the issues concerning Turkey's nuclear power station under construction through the Ministry of the Environment and Energy and through the Greek Atomic Energy Commission, which comes under the Ministry of Development and Investment, and the security problems arising from its construction are constantly increasing. Indeed, the Greek Atomic Energy Commission participates in the European Nuclear Safety Regulators Group, as it is called, the European Nuclear Safety Regulators Group of the European Commission, through which the Greek side closely monitors the issue and is placed accordingly. In addition, Greece is actively present in the public debate on this subject, both within the European Parliament and the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, institutions which have adopted relevant decisions and resolutions. Among other things, a report by the European Parliament in 2019 urges the Turkish side to consult the Greek side. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in full cooperation with the relevant ministries and bodies, shall monitor progress on the Akuyu nuclear power station and contribute to the formation and promotion of national positions, intervening wherever necessary. We are in constant contact with countries that have increased sensitivity to this issue, on the basis of common principles and risks from being close to nuclear power stations. In particular, in the context of the informal teleconferencing of the European Union's Energy Ministers on 28 April 2020, the Greek side raised the question of safety arising from the construction of this nuclear power plant, as the cement bases of the first reactor of the four have been repeated cracks. Furthermore, the security issues of this station are raised at every opportunity in the public dialogue, as you requested, within and outside the country, by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I would refer you here to the public positions of my Minister on the Greek Radio on May 20th and SKAI on June 10th, because Greece considers that at regional level there are issues of responsibility in the event of a security and civil protection accident. Mr President, give me one more minute, please. In the same systematic way, our country is also involved in the debate within the European Union, where it regularly raises the issue of the Audiy nuclear power station in 2010 at various levels. I would point out that this issue and its security parameters have been consistently included in the progress reports on Turkey. For example, I will mention conclusions from three European Commission reports 2018, 2019 and 2020. I'm talking about it in chronological order. In 2018, the European Commission declared: ‘Preparations for the Akkuyu nuclear plant continued. In June 2017, the Energy Market Regulatory Authority Granted the Akkuyu nuclear company a 49-year power generation license and detailed site investment studies are underway for the Sinop nuclear power plant. Turkey's sharing listing is only partially identified with the Euratom acquittals, specially the Nuclear Safety Directive and the Spent Fuel and Radioactive Waste Directive." In 2019, the European Commission stated: ‘Turkey has been designated its content to be a national report on the stress tests as it is first nuclear power plant at Akkuyu to add for the preparation of a pending further review. During the 2018 EU - Turkey technical energy dialogue, the EU invented Turkey to participate in similar better reviews.’ Finally, 2020-two lines alone - the European Commission said: ‘Turkey should be a cooperative in the organisation of a transparent view of the national stress test report of the Akkuyu nuclear power plant with the Commission and the European Nuclear Safety Regulators Group’. Finally, Mr President, I note that immediately after the accident on 19 January the Minister raised the matter once again at his meeting with Joseph Borrell on 25 January, calling for immediate action from the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u22	Before I give Mr Arseni the floor, I'll say two things. One will contribute to the debate and on the part of Mr Arsenis and Mr Secretary-General, and one comment - please to Mr Frangoyannis. The story of Akigios began in 1994-1999. I was a Member of the European Parliament at the time. The Turkish-Greek customs union was discussed in the European Parliament and in the Commission. I started alone then a race. There were six questions to Parliament at that time. It became a miracle and we gathered MEPs from all the political groups, bringing a resolution to Parliament, but it came to the conclusion that the European Parliament would never vote in favour of Turkey's customs union with Europe if it did not stop the factory in Audiy, which at that time had undertaken to do so by the French-language consortium. Our argument was based precisely on what you and the State Secretary said, that, based on studies by the international seismic institutes, the area that became was extremely seismic and therefore extremely dangerous. I therefore think that it should be put on such a basis that it relates to Turkey's accession to Europe, if we want to be effective. Secondly, Mr Secretary, I would like to ask you to translate the extensive English texts you have read, because the recorders are not able to capture them. I would ask you to translate the texts into the House, not English. Here, Mr Arsenis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u23	Thank you very much, Mr President, and congratulations on your own actions. Mr. Secretary, first of all, fate to answer to your comment on the Holocaust statements. You know, on the contrary, I find it very compatible with this authoritarianism that comes out of the government's decisions, from a government that has people who have refused the Holocaust, at least in the past, have ads that deny the Holocaust and are antisemitic and so on. So, on the contrary, I find your own policies very compatible with your past. Now, a Member of the European Parliament is also making the resolutions you have mentioned. I did it myself. The president, Mr. Kaklamanis, did it. The statements made by the Committee on audits are obviously too thick. We expect the government to have an effective strategy. Members can bring the resolutions, help this strategy, but if the government does not go to put this issue as of paramount importance for itself, we will have the statements you read to us, which do not honour your argument that you are trying. They do not honour it, because they are statements of wish and frustration. They had no obligation on the texts you forwarded. They had no effect if Turkey did not comply. As you know, such texts in International Law are nonexistent texts. Not applicable. They don't have any impact. So I call on you to draw up - because it is obvious that you do not have - an effective strategy for how to stop this factory, how this risk will be stopped - which, as you have said and all citizens already have, accidents, already cracks in this seismic region - and how we really will ensure the future and health of our citizens from a possible accident in this plant, which should not be built. No intelligent man would put it in that part of the world, apparently beyond how negative it is in general to have a nuclear power plant. It's a nuclear bomb factory.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u24	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u25	You know, our strategy is clear and consists of three aspects. The first aspect is to monitor the facts, to have a good perception of what is happening. We, both through our own committees and through the respective individual energy committees to monitor the events of the European Union. So the first is to have a good perception of what really happens. I would not like to go into detail, but we are well aware of the know-how that they use, the work they are doing, the phases in which the first, second, third and fourth reactors are located. So we have to know what's going on. We must be aware not only of the fact that we are aware, but that we can make decisions that are directed towards the road you have said before, that is, what we can do to ensure that there is no accident, which will of course be dramatic for our region. The second part of our strategy is to have a controversy with the whole of our neighbourhood with regard to the risks. It's not just Greece. It is Turkey itself, it is Cyprus, which is all the regions of the Eastern Mediterranean that could potentially be at risk from an accident, whether it is a nuclear accident or an earthquake, which could lead to an accident of this kind. The third road, which you know, is the one you have in diplomacy, when you are not talking about at home, you refer to your wider neighbourhood, is to ensure through consensual streets, through compromise streets, through diplomatic roads, through the European Union itself that the job will either stop, whether it is done properly or controlled properly. I want to assure you that at every level, from the highest levels of the European Union to bilateral levels, we are exerting this pressure to ensure that either it does not work or, if it does, it will be governed by all the rules that need to govern the operation of a nuclear plant. We share your anxiety and do all we can to ensure that the nuclear plant in Akuguu does not pose a threat to our neighborhood.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u26	We move on with two questions from the Ministry of Education. The new Deputy Minister, Mr Zetta Makreis, will respond to the first and the second, the new Secretary-General, Evangelos Syrigos. So we will discuss the first with number 350/25-1-2021 a timely question of the second question of the SYRIZA MP Pella - the Progressive Alliance Mr.Theodoras Jakris to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The construction of a new modern building for the accommodation of the Giannitson Music School". Mrs. Jackrey, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u27	Mr President, first of all I would like to make a comment on the occasion of today's Jewish Holocaust Memorial Day and note that the Holocaust of the Jews was not a spark in history. It was a fire that burned human values and is still visible today from every corner of the planet and shows where a state or group of people can reach it - to say it in this sense - in order to maintain power against the people. In any case, however, I think history justifies those who defend human values. The topical question, now. Madam Secretary, Giannitson Music School, which is high school and high school, was set up for the first time in 1996 and in the twenty-four years of its operation, I would say, has made a decisive contribution to the promotion of the musical education of students in the region. It is a quite popular school, attractive, as it seems from the ever-growing number of students studying in it, because it combines music with general education. Since 1996, it has been established, with a small exception of its first year of operation, where it has been housed with the 2nd Gymnasium Gymnastics, it is housed exclusively in loose structure with aluminium panels in the yard of the 2nd Gymnasium Gymnasium. I think there should be no other school in Greek that is currently housed in an aluminium panel. This solution was then chosen on a temporary basis, as always - but, as you can see, no more permanent of the temporary - to serve the small then student population of the Yannitsa Music School, so that students can continue to attend the courses uninterruptedly and not intervene, I would say, catalystically one school in the operation of the other. Since 1996, and unfortunately, until now, it has continued to operate in sewed structures, in aluminium panel rooms, as I have said, with completely inappropriate infrastructure, as we can imagine, which in no way meets the needs of students who are there, with rooms that have no sound insulation, which is heated by air conditioners, with anything that this can mean. And, of course, there is no need for any reason as required by the rules governing the operation of the music schools themselves, such as meeting rooms, events or, in any case, feeding rooms. As you can see, Mrs. Undersecretary, the number of fifty students of the Yannitson School of Music - which is to point out here that it is not only from the Regional Unit Pellas, but also from the Regional Unit of Imathia, from the Regional Unit of Kilkis and from the Regional Unit of Thessaloniki, because this school is unique in the region - as well as the twenty-four years of operation make it necessary to create a modern training centre for the accommodation of the Yannitsas Music School yesterday, Mrs. And I say this, because during SYRIZA's governance, there was an expressed political will - your counterpart had visited the school at the time, the Deputy Minister - to join the Yannitsa Music School in a set of schools that would be built through a PPP. However, as you can see, for a school to become a school, there must first of all be a plot and secondly this plot must be 'clean'. The municipality, of course, has been tragically delayed since then - for some four years - the completion of the orbital project - has needed an amendment to include this use - so that by the July 2019 elections this modification of the orbital project has not been completed. I am aware, however, that last May the municipality issued a communication that also completed the amendment of the quarry but also the relevant approvals. In fact, this was included in the Ministry of Education's veterinary programme. There have been developments since then, Madam Secretary, whether we are going to proceed, that is to say, in the proclamation of the project and in its integration into a financial instrument. I would therefore like to ask what the political will, first of all, of the Ministry, with the present political leadership, is to build up a new teaching course for the accommodation of the Giannitsas Music School, which is the timetable you have drawn up at the Ministry...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u28	Ms. Jackrey, please, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u29	I'm closing, Mr. President. I would also like you to tell me what financial instrument you intend to incorporate it into the NSRF or the PPP, as the previous government had planned. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u30	Mrs. Undersecretary has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. I will also start by contributing to the Holocaust Memorial Day and will read you a very small passage from today's statement by the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, Ms. Kerameos. "In the sixty thousand Greek Jews, but also in the millions of people who were totalled by the Nazi regime, we must pay tribute to all the next generations, with our weapon of knowledge, ensuring the historical memory and thorough study and teaching of events. Thus, there will never be any engraving left, which will allow the revival of fascism, Nazism, anti-Semitism, intolerance." In the question, now tabled by Mrs Jackson, in my narrative, my colleague, I will give you the framework of competences of the Ministry of Education and of secondary education, and I will explain to you the research carried out by our services on the course of this really necessary new building, which will be housed by the Yannitson Music School. Just because our ministry considered it necessary, the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, Mrs.Kerameos, signed the 1986-42/A2/13-12-2019 decision, approving the veterinary programme for the Yannitson Music School, with the capacity of two hundred students and high school students and a hundred students and high school disciples. In your question you mentioned - you said it today in your place - that in total there are a hundred fifty students and there is an increase estimate for the next school year. That is why, in the veterinary programme, in its adoption, accompanying this decision, there is provision for a capacity of three hundred pupils and pupils. In fact, there are minimum limits in the livestock programme, which means that, in the preparation of the study of this school building, there is an increase in the total gross area of up to 10% to optimise the areas. However, this revised veterinary programme is also subject to the approval of the Ministry. If you read the contents of the program, the study includes type 1 and 2 courses of science, preparation, room of artistic, Aesthetics, Informatics, Sports, Auxiliaries, administrative and social spaces. I'll tell you, completing my prology, that the role of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs for the school roof is perfect. It lays down the specifications of the premises for the species, their number, their size and they are included in the veterinary programme. For the construction of school buildings, their repair, maintenance and improvement of school facilities, the competence falls to the municipalities in accordance with Articles 75(1), 75(1), sector F of Law 3463/2006 and 94(4) of Law 3852/2010. Therefore, the financing tools for building and their integration into funding are the responsibility of the municipality. I'll give you additional information in dentistry, not to misuse time. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u32	Mrs. Jackrey, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u33	As you said, Madam Secretary, the Yannitson Music School - like all the music schools, of course - are attractive schools because they combine music with general education. In any case, in order to achieve this combination, as we all understand it, there must also be appropriate equipment, but also a suitable training course to house the School of Music, so that lessons can be done as you have told us. Small rooms with sound insulation are required to make the individual teaching of the courses and not to involve the sounds of the different musical instruments, there is a need for a hall for the presentation of the students' work, a feeding room is required, because the hours, as you can see, are extended and specific specifications are generally required. From 13-12-2019, as you said, Madam Secretary, the veterinary programme was approved by the Ministry of Education, but, as you quite rightly said, the Ministry of Education - as you have rightly said - contributes to the political will to integrating these schools into a financial programme. In the case of the NRV, it must cooperate with the Region of Central Macedonia, if it is, in any case, a PPP, or the Ministry of Infrastructure may be managed by the replacement of the School Buildings Agency, the new organisation, or, in any case, through the services of the Ministry of Infrastructure. In any case, however, the Ministry of Education, Madam Secretary, is an expedited Ministry and it has the political will. The same goes for the courts, the same goes for everyone. And, of course, with the General Secretariat of the PPP. The municipality in December 2019 issued a press release. It was announced by the Municipality of Pellas that it was indeed approved, as you said, by the veterinary programme for the School of Music. In May 2020, the municipality announced that the project was to be launched for construction last June, while, according to the calculations of the tasks, binding tenders are expected to be submitted in the spring of 2021. Subsequently, the contractor will become a contractor and in the autumn of 2021 contracts will be signed, with the aim of building the school unit at the beginning of 2022. As you can see - I told you before and I will close with it - the Ministry of Education, if any of this has happened, would be aware of any development that would follow after the adoption of the veterinary programme. So, in any case, Minister, the Municipality of Giannitson has no opportunity in itself to proceed with such a project. I repeat, this will be done either through the NRP - through its budget, this is the financial instrument - or through the PPPs, where the Ministry of Education is the fastest Ministry, which expresses the political will - if you like - also gives the inaugural reception to the other departments - which I have told you what may be and I do not want to repeat, whether the Ministry of Infrastructure or the old School Building Agency, the old PPP, as is said today - to proceed, in any case, with the implementation of the project in cooperation with the PPP Secretariat, if the financial instrument of the PPP is chosen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u34	Here, Mrs. Makre, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr President. As I told you, therefore, in my protology, my colleague, as far as our responsibility is concerned, Department I Study of the Department of Technical Services in the Ministry is concerned, prepares and approves civic programs for the accommodation needs of all school units - HEI and TEI - for housing needs of the regional services of the Ministry of Education, for the General Archives of the State and for public libraries. I will repeat, as I have said in the protology, that the Ministry has an effective role, draw up and approve veterinary programmes, and defines the sites' type, number and size specifications. I will agree with you that we must, but there is interest in school halls, although their climbing is not our responsibility, which is why we have been investigating, so that we can have a full answer to your question. The investigation of the services showed that the Municipality of Pellas has submitted a technical document entitled "Giannitson Music School' in the program "Philodimos", which has submitted all relevant permits, a veterinary programme, an approved local temporal for its proposed uplift location. This proposal was not included in the ‘PHILADIMOS I’ programme and was re-introduced by the municipality to the ‘TIRITIS ANITIS’ programme, in particular to the ‘Evaluation of the municipality’ building stock, which has the final date for submission of proposals on 31 March 2021. I will also inform you that with regard to the design, construction and financing, maintenance and operation of seventeen school units in the region of Central Macedonia in the PPP programme, approved by the Interministerial Committee of PPP on 16-1-2021, with the contracting authority of the company "CRITERIA INDICATIONS S.A.", this Interministerial Committee "inherited" in in introductory forms but implemented the decisions of 2017 and 2018 of the then Minister of Infrastructure and Transport Mr Christos Spirtzi, which did not include the Giannitson Music School. We did this because public administration keeps going. And I would like to say, however, that the Region of Central Macedonia has included a positive recommendation in its own recommendation on the construction of seventeen teaching courses under the PPP procedure, based on the need for its regional units - and the Yannitson Music School. It is this second proposal that will be submitted by the Region of Central Macedonia to be approved by the Interministerial Committee of the PPP. All the necessary information from the Municipality of Pellas has been collected and is expected to be submitted for final approval in the following period. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u36	Good. We move to the last question, on the second question under number 341/25-1-2021, on the first question from the Member of the Ilias Movement of Change, Michalis Katrin to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on "The need to strengthen the Department of Music at the Tower". As I said, the State Secretary for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Syrigos, will respond. Here you go, Mr. Catarini, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u37	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, as you know, the Department of Music at the University of Patras, based in the Tower, is the only undergraduate section on museum studies. And I ask you about this, because we in Elias have justified many complaints over time from the attitude of governments in relation to Elijah's integration into the map of higher education. And we're talking about a county that has the honor of hosting the best of Greece, Ancient Olympia. Nevertheless, it has been neglected over time and at the moment we have sections that, while they have been established, are suspended and parts which, while operating, are not in practice supported by the Republican authorities, but also by the leadership of the Ministry of Education. And I'm talking specifically about the Department of Music at the University of Patras. Five hundred active students in two years of operation, however, have also been responsible for the scientific responsibility of a thousand students at the TEI Department that was abolished, Management, Economy, Cultural and Tourism Units, until they complete their studies, for at least two more years. Lack of teachers has tangible painful results. 50% of the winter semester courses of the students of Museology were not taught and 70% of the winter courses of the part that was also abolished were not taught, while there are students who, while they have completed the curriculum from the previous department, cannot complete because they do not receive a degree because of a lack of teachers. The Rector of the University of Patras along with the teachers on 1 December sent to the head of the Ministry of Education - you were not then - an agonizing letter asking for a specific line of support for the proper and self-powered association of the department. This letter, Mr President - and I say it because I know that you are particularly sensitive to this - has been signed by all the Members of the Ilia Prefecture, by Mrs Agerinopoulou, by Mr Javaras, by Mr Nikolakopoulou, Mr Kalamatianos and by the speakers, showing an unprecedented coalition of the elected representatives of Elijah in Parliament on an objective which we consider to be just. And because it is expected to be evaluated by the National Higher Education Authority and this assessment, Minister, will be made in a department that was not supported by the previous Rector - attributes I will tell you that thirty-eight LPI members gave the Ministry of Education in 2019-2020 to the University of Patras, not even one went to the Department of Music - so this department could not develop all its actions and capabilities in one and a half years. With all this in mind, I ask two specific things: firstly, if you intend to provide the department with academic permanent staff through the assistance of the University of Patras or with teachers, such as those of the 407th time, there is - at least four in every six months, so that the courses that have not been completed during the winter semester can be taught and, secondly, if the two SSP posts pending since July will finally be completed - I do not know if they are in the Ministry of Education, if they are in the Ministry of the Interior - but they will enable them to increase the teachers in the department and if you will support the department with at least two positions of the EIB and of the administrative staff, which are a condition of survival and orderly operation. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u38	Here, Mr. Syrigos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, you raised a very important issue. In Greece we have treasures that we often don't know how to handle them, how to deal with them. You referred to the example of the Prefecture of Ilias and Ancient Olympia and we, instead of taking advantage of the global resonance called "Olympia", are sitting and playing, as we did in 2019 with Law4610, where we built a Department of Music with two LPA members. So we are now being called upon to deal with a situation in which part of an old TEI, with all the numbers you rightly mentioned, is trying to survive with two TEI members. In this context, however, and because the state is really going on and we are obliged to take on the mistakes that have been made in the past - regardless of whether they have been made by a previous government - we can say what I am going to say to you below. We have allocated thirty-five members to the University of Patras. The Senate's decision provided two members' seats, based on the a.d. 409/1980, to meet the needs of the spring semester and five educational staff have been assigned for the 2020-2021 academic year as part of academic experience. These are new doctors, who make contracts every six months or per year, so that they can obtain academic experience. Three administrative staff have been assigned to the Secretariat and are still pending procedures for the appointment of administrative staff of the former Western Greece TEI with headquarters in the Tower to three more persons. As regards the transfer of EDPS, there are indeed two requests for teachers to be transferred to places of laboratory teaching staff. The necessary legality check has been completed and the procedure is in progress in order to appoint.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Katrinis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I would first like to thank you because you are precise in what you say, summarised, polite but essential. We must, however, reintroduce things to the right dimension. In other words, at the moment, they're serving two ICP members in the Department of Music. That didn't happen by chance. By the law you mentioned, the previous government, it was allowed to apply for and transfer to other parts of the same university. This resulted in three teachers who were at the Tower leaving and going to Patras. So the function of the department has been dismantled, and that is why we are calling for the intervention and assistance of the state in a request which, I repeat, is signed and signed by all the MPs and self-government in the region. And I think that you, too, understand that it has elements of correctness and sustainability and we need to get back to the previous situation. Indeed, the University of Patras is committed - and Mr Bourras does so by letter, but he has said so in discussions - that, although it is strengthened, he will share with justice what is due to the Department of Music at the Tower. But there are problems requiring direct staffing. In other words, apart from these positions that have been adopted, a priority policy, budgetary, educational, cultural - I do not know - should be given to the Museology Department at the Tower and it should be served at the moment. At least eight ICPs, at least one or two ESP posts - you did not answer me and I am waiting for a second one if you have something to tell me - two administrative staff to complete both of these SSP posts, which will give a significant breath to the problem of teaching that is currently facing not the department, Minister, but hundreds of students, who are not taught in their courses and who will wonder what the Greek state is doing for their children in another city. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Now I will not refer to the proximity with Ancient Olympia, Kastro Hlemucci, Epikourio Apollo and all the cultural treasures of global radiation, as you said quite rightly, based in Elia. But it is a department that actually provides scientific and professional supplies to its students. I would like to say to you, because I know that you are sensitive to this - and I conclude, Mr President - that the curriculum and cognitive object of the Department of Music is taught in many foreign universities. For example, the Rochester Institute, the University of Lemy in Canada, the University of British Columbia also in Canada, the University of Iowa. In Reading in England and Bailor they have a undergraduate subject to museum studies. So this object, which is unique in Greece at the Department of Music, is not an invention of Greek, there is everywhere. And alas if it is not supported to continue to exist in Greece! There are teaching rooms that are at a very good level and of course there is a need to strengthen equipment. Because you also bring a bill related to the range of ratings that, in your view, is a criterion for sustainability, I would like to say that in one and a half years' time, with all these problems I have described, the department is on the average of the rating range of the university departments. It is, however, a part which has not been supported by the previous Rector and must now be supported by the Government and the new Rector, whose letter, which I submitted to you on 1 December, is the most tangible proof that it really believes in the viability of the department. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u42	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u43	Mr Katrin, you said the critical phrase: 'It was not supported by the former rector'. Why am I saying that? Because I see, looking at the list of the Ministry of Education, that for the academic year 2019-2020 five hundred teaching staff, i.e. members, all over Greece, of which thirty-eight were assigned to the University of Patras. On the 16th of July, there were two further membership posts and 12 posts were allocated to the University of Patras. On September 30, 2020, three hundred fifty posts were assigned, of which twenty-three were held at the University of Patras. Special educational staff were also given this year's academic year two hundred and eighty-four posts, of which twenty-three were again at the University of Patras. Finally, for the EIFs, which have specifically asked the question you have tabled, three EIF posts have been allocated to the University of Patras. I say all this because the individual distribution of all these posts per department is made by decisions of the University Senate, in accordance with Article 13 of Law 4485/2007. So it's the university that he decides. The Ministry has the positions at the university, and this decides where to make them available. Consider it self-evident that we will also speak with the Dean of the University of Patras, to see how the department can help. The final decision, however, falls within the Senate of the University of Patras.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u44	Ninety-six people, however, I counted by hearing that he's taken the University of Patras. You're jealous of the Patrians, that's why.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u45	Not a hundred, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u46	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed. We'll interrupt the meeting for a while and come back at 11:00 exactly. I would ask that the Secretariats of the Parliamentary Groups inform representatives and rapporteurs to be here at 11 a.m. in accordance with the supplementary agenda distributed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u47	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We enter the supplementary agenda of LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy: "The integrated maritime policy in the island area, provisions for compliance with international navigation obligations and the upgrading of L.S. - EL.AKEY. and specific arrangements for digitisation and in general strengthening the competitiveness of the Greek shipping industry in the post-COVID era." The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 21 January 2021 to discuss the draft law at a meeting, which, in principle, was unified on articles and amendments. In particular, with regard to the organisation of the debate, special speakers, parliamentary representatives and ministers and three circles of speakers are proposed, apart from the rapporteurs, to participate in the discussion in a natural presence. Each cycle will consist of twelve speakers with the following ratio: five from New Democracy, three from SYRIZA, one from the Change Movement, one from the KKE, one from the Greek Solution and one from the Mera25. Two circles of speakers will also be added to this debate by teleconferencing via the 'WEBEX' platform, as the cycle will consist of twelve speakers with the same ratio. The name of the speaker has already been assigned by the Parliamentary Groups by letters. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u48	The House has agreed. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that a request for a roll-call vote has been tabled by the SYRIZA Parliament on Articles 22, 25, 30 and on Amendments Nos 717 and 718. If a party wants to apply for a roll-call vote, it will do so now in order to prepare the proceedings. The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Stefanos Gikas, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr President. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, in the more than 200 inhabited islands of Greece, more than 15% of the country's population live, with its main activities related to tourism, sea and shipping. Unlike the mainland economy, however, the island economy is called upon to face known aggravating factors, such as increased transport costs, uncontinuation of space and increased demands on infrastructure and equipment. However, it has so far been lacking in the country's legal arsenal for an integrated policy to support and strengthen our island regions in order to overcome problems that are inhibiting the development prospects and development of our islands. This legislative initiative covers this serious gap, establishing for the first time an island policy through the obligation to draw up a national strategy for integrated maritime policy in the island area. The new island policy forms part of the National Reform Programme "ELLAD BROSTTA" and has at its heart the central political choice of this government to exploit the development prospects of our islands and the economic, social and territorial cohesion of the island area, but always in the context of the maritime economy. The new island policy ensures that small and very small islands are treated discreetly by adopting specific programmes. It pursues a specific development policy for the islands and adopts specific programmes with sectoral policies in the island area. The national strategy is a single policy text drawn up every five years and sets out specific development objectives in the areas of public policy, related to port policy and maritime infrastructure, maritime cabotage, island competitiveness and entrepreneurship, maritime surveillance and maritime safety strategy, blue professions and investment in the blue economy, digital governance and, of course, the tripartite 'health and welfare-training'. It sets out central objectives, strategic and specific development objectives, specific action plans and, as we have said, actions for small and remote islands. In addition, it shall include a mechanism for monitoring and evaluating the course of its implementation. In the preparation of the national strategy, the principle of non-discrimination is also taken into account, such as disability, while ensuring accessibility to disabled persons. The implementation of the national strategy does not circumvent parliamentary procedures. The annual report on evaluation and evaluation of the results and effects of policies implemented in the island area by the Isle of Island Policy Council, presented and analysed in the relevant committee, is to be compiled. Since a policy text alone is not enough, tools and, above all, financial programmes are being established, which will contribute catalytically to the promotion of the national strategy. The NEARTHOS programme is therefore established to finance public-sector projects in the fields of port infrastructure and facilities, energy management, maritime cabotage to ensure maritime transport services, infrastructure and networks for management, transport and distribution of water, in particular in small and medium-sized islands. Under this programme, general government bodies will enter into investment loans with the Deposit and Loan Fund to finance specific projects. Loans shall be provided by the Public Investment Programme of the Ministry of Trade Shipping and Island Policy and in particular by its co-financed part. Allow me, in order to be more understandable, to mention an example that could take place in the regional unit of Corfu, which is my constituency. The Port Authority of Corfu, OLIKE, can enter into a loan with the Deposit and Loan Fund in order to finance the repair of a small port infrastructure in the Ottomans, Diatomia or Astrakri Karousades in northern Corfu and to finance this repair, the port infrastructure, without the cost of the loan being charged to the Port Authority, because it will be served by the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy. So it is very important that this 'new' programme is very important. In the same way, desalination projects can be financed in the small and very small islands or - very important - multiannual contracts to ensure regular transport on fertile lines. Also, with an addition that has been made, technical consultants can be hired when there is no possibility of using a study, a project. Another very important tool is the programme to fund island entrepreneurship, which provides for the provision of all kinds of funding to small and medium-sized enterprises active in the maritime economy. Finally, the Blue Economy Fund is being established, aimed at making use of financial instruments for the development and promotion of innovative entrepreneurship in the maritime economy and in the blue economy, in particular maritime technology, shipbuilding equipment and, of course, technology in these two sectors. The three financial programmes, in particular the 'Newcarce', have a clear and practical national dimension. They open the way for significant investments in our island area, which in turn bring growth and new jobs and thus support our national economy. The draft law, however, also ensures the effective and efficient implementation of the national strategy through the establishment of two critical tools as well. One is the establishment of the National Register of Maritime Economy Bodies, a tool for linking and working with the actors active in the fields of the national strategy, and the other is the Single Monitoring and Documentation Platform in the fields of the national strategy, which will act as a mechanism for monitoring and documenting, where studies, data collected in all areas of the national strategy will be maintained. In closing this chapter, it should be stressed that this legislative initiative is a result of a comprehensive dialogue. Over fourteen regional conferences and conferences have been held, with more than three hundred proposals, many of which have been incorporated into this legislative initiative. I come - because time passes - in the second part of this bill, which is also important and deals with a number of important issues, in particular maritime work, shipping, the port House and the digitisation of procedures. In the context of the financial consequences of the koruna crisis, arrangements shall be made to support the affected sectors. For example, the provisions on the suspension of shipping agreements for the months of January and February 2021 shall be extended where their vessels are not operating. It is also possible for this year to repay pilot rights within 60 days. They also support business pleasure boats, as for marine tourism the previous year was a very bad year. It is therefore extended by three months the time limit for the payment of the electronic paradox for the registration of ships in the electronic register of tourist ships, while the minimum charter time for those already registered or to be registered in the electronic register until 31/12-2021 is extended by one year in order to avoid loss of professional status. The provisions of Law 2971/2001 on the granting of the right to use a saint beach for construction, repair, maintenance, conversion of wooden vessels up to forty meters long, our traditional art. The bill is also addressed to critical staff needs of the Port House, covering the empty organic positions from participants in the 2019 tenders for the pedigree signifiers of the port and port guards. At the same time, there are arrangements concerning the representatives of the Port Authority, such as the possibility of granting advances in defence costs to officials who are faced with justice due to actions and omissions in the performance of their duties. This restores the presumption of innocence and the state proves in practice the confidence and respect it feeds on the representatives of the Port House. It is also very important that the initiative of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy proceeds with the establishment of a National Single Port Community Platform, which will operate under the sole responsibility and supervision of the Secretariat-General of the Ports. This is an extremely important project, embedded in the digital transformation book. Submission of supporting documents, invoices, etc. for port services and logistics services it will now be done electronically by users and operators with ports. There is therefore a drastic reduction in bureaucracy, a simplification of procedures and, of course, a further guarantee of transparency. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to end by stressing that for the first time we are establishing a comprehensive, modern, coherent island policy, with tools and financial programmes to support the island economy and the sustainable development of our islands. This is an incision, a drastic shift towards improving the way the state has so far been dealing with island regions. That is why I wish, as rapporteur for the majority, and in particular as an island Member, to thank the Minister for the Maritime Affairs, Mr Plakkatakis, and his colleagues for this very important legislative initiative. Fully in line with European practices and standards, the draft law creates the framework for dealing with effective problems and shortcomings, to make full use of the development perspective of the island and maritime economy and to serve local, regional and, of course, national interests. For all these reasons, I recommend his vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u50	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a statement to this House: The Ministers of Finance, Development and Investment, Foreign Affairs, Citizen Protection, National Defence, Education and Religious Affairs, Work and Social Affairs, Health, Environment and Energy, Culture and Sport, Justice, Home Affairs, Immigration and Asylum, Infrastructure and Transport, Maritime Affairs, Rural Development and Food Policy, Tourism, Deputy Ministers of Finance, Development and Investment and Home Affairs, as well as the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sport, have tabled a draft law on 26-1-2021: ‘Industries of General Censuses of the Year 2021 by the Greek Statistical Authority, urgent arrangements to address the impact of the CIVID -19 pandemic, emergency financial and fiscal arrangements and other provisions’. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Mr Andreas Michaelides, Member of the SYRIZA, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u51	Mr President, let me remind colleagues from the Step forward of the House that it is Holocaust Memorial Day today and that we are honouring the millions of people who have been exterminated by the Nazis on the basis of their racial characteristics, political convictions or their sexual preferences and our commitment that we will never allow in future such atrocities to the detriment of humanity. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, in the context of the debate on the draft law of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Island Policy in the committee responsible, the Minister has repeatedly tried to defend the bill we are discussing as a holistic and concrete policy on islands, unlike the fragmentary policies of the past, as he said. I wonder if the Minister believes all this, which is of course a long way from reality. And I'll be more specific. Cohesion, careful processing, holistic approach, prioritisation are among these features that are emphatically absent from the draft law, and especially from the first chapter on integrated maritime policy in the island area. There are definitions in this regard of the 'Blue Development' and 'Sea Economy'. However, there is not even an attempt to describe the basic condition of this maritime policy. The reference to an island area is a pretext since, as is apparent from the Articles, maritime policy concerns the whole coastal area or even the entire territory of the country. This extended scope may indeed be necessary in the context of a maritime policy, but do not present it as an island policy, Minister, for which the government has not done anything in the course of the year and over. And I am not referring only to the dismantling of the position of the State Secretary or the Deputy Minister on island policy issues, an act with obvious political symbolism. I am also referring to the absence of any initiative that would strengthen the institutional framework and enrich the measures and actions of the island policy that we have launched. How did you rely on practice and how do you intend to continue, for example, the special development programmes for the northern and southern Aegean? And of course, what attitude did you take toward the transport equivalent? It is indeed noteworthy that in a bill that deals with islands, there is not a single denomination at the core of the existing policy, namely the transport equivalent. This, of course, relates, on the one hand, to your policy of allergy to the development philosophy of the transport equivalent, which is contrary to the customer regulations and facilities in a few, policies which you are able to apply and, on the other hand, it relates to the huge delays in the payment of the compensation for the coastline and air tickets paid by the islands and the corresponding compensation for the island companies. These are unacceptable many months' delays, which civil society and many bodies and organisations have denounced. But let's get back to the bill. What do you describe in the first chapter? You say that a national strategy will be developed within the next six months. It goes without saying that it is basically the Ministry that will draw up the strategy strongly concerned, on the basis of its facts and the general neoliberal development logic that characterises the government as reflected in the recent recovery and resilience plan of the government. It is worrying, in other words, that it does not explicitly provide for a wide-ranging consultation process with actors and interested parties to prepare the national strategy. The second core proposed in the first chapter is the establishment of four financial instruments for the implementation of this so-called 'national strategy'. This in itself is not negative, but there are a number of problems for these financial programmes and funds, which we have pointed out not only ourselves, but also most opposition parties as well as a number of bodies. There is a planning problem, as the means of implementing a strategy are being created earlier, before it is discussed and clearly identified. In this context, it is possible to identify various shortcomings in the axes of funding described. For example, the elements of the climate crisis and the green transition as well as in particular the protection of marine ecosystems and the sustainable management of natural resources are weak or not fully reflected or missing from the first chapter. However, the primary problem with these financial instruments is that they do not even mention an indicative budget and that they are not combined with additional resources. They are wishful words with enclosures of organisms, as we have pointed out from the outset. The Minister's answer to the committee regarding the resources of these tools was that they "will reduce" the money from the Ministry's Public Investment Program. So clear and brave to finance the infamous four programmes you are recommending! They are, in fact, very advertised ‘empty shirts’. On the basis of all the above, I think we are legitimate to say that integrated maritime policy in the island area is an invasion of content, a well-written report of ideas, a poorly formulated list. Among the problematic provisions of the draft law we underline the incorporation into Greek legislation for the first time texts, such as the codes of the International Maritime Organisation, in English, without even providing for their translation, with all the problems that this may cause to their users. We also note the lack of initiatives to strengthen the Greek flag, the policy you have announced, Minister, but without being reflected in the bill we are discussing. We consider support measures to support maritime work to be extremely inadequate and that they in fact lead to absolute poverty. The seafaring profession differs from the rest of the land occupations. In fact, seafarers are seasonal workers. Their support is, in fact, temporal. As far as maritime education is concerned, we are still waiting, Minister, for the recruitment process to be completed by the seventy-three teachers we have given. For example, at the Chios Commercial Navy Academy in the last two years - and above - there has been a permanent intake of a teacher. By the way, let me mention that the alalum in the academy is unbelievable. Naval courses are currently being carried out by teachers with unnecessarily skilled skills. The certificates, Mr Minister, may I also say to you, by the way, that special schools, for example, need a new extension, because some seafarers will find them in the middle. The delays, too, in completing the issues of school regulations, the supply of computers, and - as we are told - the insurance of young students without a maritime service. You are demanding, Minister, the naval service, which, instead of directly moving into its staff with new recruitments, you are allowing masters of first and second grade to have the right to navigate, thereby jeopardising shipping in the ports, as has been pointed out to you in the consultation and hearing of operators. Professional pilots are recruited after evaluation and trained appropriately in their work so that they can safely navigate ships. This process has even been modernised in our own governance. This regime is overturned, paving the way to privatising navigation. It is no coincidence that pilots today strike and drag on to the courts to characterise their strike as illegal and abusive. The National Single Port Community Platform should operate as a port based platform and not as a single and unique port for all ports while ensuring the security of the data it contains. The renewal of the port services contracts for the receipt and management of waste is obviously linked to the unacceptable delay in the implementation of the relevant European regulation. The government finds itself totally unworthy of protecting the public interest, but also of public health in this area too. Exclusion of environmental permits from the projects of the Hellenic Coast Guard is a serious challenge to environmental legislation, completely unconstitutional and even contrary to European legislation. In fact, this is where you are again trying to cover unacceptable government delays in the installation and operation of critical systems. We would like to point out that the circumvention of the environmental conditions you are trying to achieve poses a risk to possible projects. You have also disappeared from the provision in the original wording of the draft law on increasing the organic positions of the ministry's civil servants, which we proposed in a relevant amendment and we reintroducing it improved. As far as the Scientific Service of the House is concerned, we have reservations about this article. The establishment of a Procurement Office in the Ministry's organic units, although necessary to meet current needs, should, in our opinion, be accompanied by a maximum financial limit for both awards and tenders. We are also asking, Minister, whether there is agreement between the Single Independent Public Procurement Authority on the article which you propose in the bill. We express our reservations about the complexity of the use, mainly by foreign shipowners. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm going to need two more minutes, Mr. President. Amendment No 718/18, which refers to the Public Port Authority, is an amendment which we denounce as scandalous, as a raw frustration of state control and the defence of vital interests in the country, subtracting thirteen from its fifteen powers, thus making it a ghost organisation. You deliver the two major ports of the country, Piraeus and Thessaloniki, north of private interests, without any control. You wish for another independent authority, so that it does not supervise the implementation of investment obligations - for example, 'COSCO' - and the enforcement of the relevant clause provided for in the concession agreement. With Amendment No 717/17, which deals with penalties for violating labour legislation in seafarers, you are actually giving a gift to specific shipowners a huge sum by reducing the fines, which you will now impose on them, rather than on those cases where labour legislation is violated. In other words, you are looking at employment rights in the shipping sector. Of all the above, it is clear that the false draft law you brought to Parliament is an invention to do your most extreme neoliberal policy, while at the same time promoting perfectly rhetorical provisions and satisfying the demands of great economic interests. Despite any positive provisions, we must vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u52	Mr Dimitrios Biagis, Member of the Change Movement, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u53	Mr President, before I begin my introduction, I would like, in representing the whole parliamentary group of the Change Movement, to express our warmest condolences to the inappropriate loss of our partner and the fighter of freedom and democracy Sifi Valyrakis. Also, Minister, knowing the sensitivity and delicateness with which you have dealt with the incident so far, I would also like you to ensure the continuity of the investigations, in order to get abundant light and to provide answers to this tragic event. Ladies and gentlemen, the current situation requires changes. The crisis of the coronary pandemic came as a catapult and formed a new social and economic environment in which we are all called upon today to adapt. It is the duty of all of us to legislate towards the common good. And since we are discussing maritime policy today, it is our duty to turn to policies that will give solutions and bring island Greece out of the multiple deadlocks that it has reached today, even giving them a development mark. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Greek islands are facing difficulties and challenges over time, involving, among other things, isolation, difficulty in accessibility, loss of population and ageing, which are now alarming. I take this opportunity, Minister, to invite you to visit the islands of my own constituency, the crossroads of the islands, the Erikousa, the Ottomans, Mathraki, in order to understand in real terms and true images what it really means to depopulate and rapidly depopulation. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the financial crisis in recent years in conjunction with the recent pandemic intensified the existing problems in the country and especially in the islands. Any emergency measures taken by the government to deal with them were all fragmentary and horizontal, without any concern for our islands, which were disproportionately severely affected in relation to the rest of the country. Minister, when the bill was drawn up in committees you mentioned, among other things, that you started out of white paper, implying that there was obviously no initiative, no concern from the outgoing Minister of the SYRIZA - ANEL. And you said that, after almost a year and a half that the New Democracy is in power and you in the position of the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy. We do not want to deny any effort you are making, but of course we cannot accept incorrect, precarious or even precarious approaches to the challenges of islandity and the respective cohesion policies of the islands. It is clear, therefore, that the concept of "insularity" from the title, as well as from the contents of the draft law, is completely absent in this draft law. It is clear that this draft law does not even bring about a partial or fragmentary solution to the very large chronic problems faced by our islanders or even their immediate needs. Not only does it focus on the islands, but it covers almost the entire Greek territory. The provisions of the bill concerning the so-called 'integrated maritime policy in the island area' state some theoretical, I would say, good intentions. However, they are very limited in a very general context of principles for the drafting of the so-called 'national strategy', without at all any specialization. Let me not forget, Minister, that you, as a strong supporter of the infamous law on the staff of a state, have not even issued, as you had to, according to your own opinion, the prerequisites for an action plan for the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy. Minister, from this bill there are absolutely no policies to strengthen work, health and social care, culture, interconnectivity, environmental protection and the use of sustainable and renewable energy, waste management and water resources, and generally policies with specific measures for the social, territorial and economic cohesion of our islands. Furthermore, there are no measures that our islands, businessmen and others need, such as measures to strengthen and regain the particularly affected islands from the pandemic, measures that are immediately, specifically and targeted at the islands, on the basis of demographic, social, geographical, economic and geostrategic criteria, and measures that will intensify the small isolated islands, such as the Great, the Copernicus Islands, etc. These include zero taxation, direct and indirect, full medical coverage, planned regular medical prevention, priority in any employment and entrepreneurship support programme, optimisation of the conditions for beneficiaries of unemployment benefits, an increase in the rate of subsidisation of employers' contributions. This is because the corresponding financial costs are disproportionately small in relation to the expected effect on cohesion and on our national interests. Ladies and gentlemen, as I have said in my previous suggestions, this bill at least in the first part, concerning maritime policy in the island area, has a lack of clarity and completeness, and most of its regulations are laid down by ministerial decisions. You spoke of 'white paper', Minister, but you should probably refer to a 'white check', which we are asked to sign in advance. This is not only interpreted as a misrepresentation, due to the obvious depreciation of the parliamentary work itself and the legislative power of the House by the authors of this bill, but it can be interpreted mainly in two ways: either at best, the government and the expedited Ministry have been rushed to present a fine project, since they are really unreasonable to support it by specific regulations, or, in the worst case, you want to make any arrangements, pursuits and intentions, whatever you want. I would like to focus in particular on Article 25 on the provision of port waste and cargo residues. In spite of the wise clarifications and insights of the Port Regulatory Authority for the decommissioning and proper implementation of the relevant provisions of the existing and sufficient institutional framework, despite the warnings that the regulation you have brought does not substantiate the exclusion of the application of national legislation, while at the same time violating the acquis communautaire, with the risk of our country being brought to the Court of Justice of the European Union, you are nevertheless insisting on an abusive regulation of quasi-minority of the providers of these services, but also, in general, of economic freedom and individual rights. Therefore, you have speeded up your tabling of the amendment to cast down the powers and effectively lifting the independence of this authority. Expose both you and your government. It is not the disgrace of the role of an independent authority by you that makes us impression. After all, traditionally, as a party, you are not the most enthusiastic supporters of the independent authorities. We are impressed by the uncomplicated and scandalous approach, Minister, to cover the service you are seeking under Article 25. We call on you to withdraw both this article and, of course, this unacceptable amendment. Minister, further reflection is given to the fact that the bill provides for an exception to the obligation on environmental licensing for maritime navigation and maritime surveillance technical projects and, indeed, public projects that can be carried out even in areas of particular environmental sensitivity, such as NATURA, in your intention. It is something that we have also told you and was stressed by other bodies and environmental organisations, both during the consultation and during the drafting of the bill in the committees. It is simply incomprehensible to contempt and depreciate you in protecting the environment, on the grounds of any delays that the licensing procedure may bring about. As far as the planned extension of the responsibilities of the General Secretariat of the Aegean and Island Policy is concerned, we would like to say that in no case is that it is not enough. We believe that it should have an even wider framework of competence. You were told by the workers of the General Secretariat, who first know about the disgrace and indifference from your Government. The Prime Minister of Government chose, after a year and a half of government, in an attempt to maintain any internal balance, to place a State Secretary and your Ministry and, indeed, with the sole responsibility of the ship control branch, a technique, i.e. the Port Authority - the Greek Coast Guard Authority, at the level of the Directorate-General. And he didn't even think about the appointment of the island itself as a parallel policy field in your Ministry. You again, in violation of every logic, decided at night to use a substantial part of the building that houses the General Secretariat of Island Policy in Mytilini for the housing needs of the Court of Appeal, at the same time creating problems in the functioning of both of them, making it more difficult for the workers to work. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this draft law is a technical text, a stirring-up of provisions on various issues, an attempt to resolve outstanding issues, which in no case constitute reform. Through this draft law you are trying to deal with some of the problems of the Port House, such as the problem of health care and the provision of legal expenses. We do not, however, understand why this provision does not include the civil servants of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy, including officials of the General Secretariat of the Aegean and Island Policy, so that there are no discriminations and two-stage policies. However, we do not think that you have healed all the fair demands of both political and military personnel, which we recommend, Minister, to review them very shortly and to settle them on a next legislative initiative, and we undertake to contribute to this. In particular, for members of staff, we consider that basic requests concerning, inter alia, their insurance, allowances and overtime, the extension of areas for which a border allowance is provided, and the lifting of discrimination in respect of the recognition of the combat service. In conclusion, I would just like to remind you that all the institutional interventions which have so far been made to strengthen the cohesion and development of the island regions are almost all the work of the governments of the progressive side. They are, above all, the governments of PASOK. For example, the recognition or incorporation of specific policy measures in favour of the islands by the institutions of the European Union, the application of reduced VAT rates, which the first two memoranda failed to abolish, which, unfortunately, achieved the third memorandum of the SYRIZA - ANEL, the creation of primary hospital structures in almost all the islands, the establishment of telemedicine, the creation of infrastructure in the public interest. Insularity for us is our compass. The Greek islander is our starting point. We must all legislate on the basis of Greece with our islands and not for Greece and our islands. Minister, taking into account the differences in the philosophy of insularity which we have and which we have developed in detail throughout this entire period, as well as the amendments which you have rightly tabled and which concern deforestation of the responsibilities of the Port Regulatory Authority - in fact the abolition of the independent authority - and the attack on the working rights of workers in maritime work, we cannot vote on this bill. If you really want to find a consensus and a real dialogue on such a very important issue, you can only prove it in practice by immediately withdrawing the two above-mentioned amendments, which also characterise this draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u54	Thank you for keeping time, Mr Biaghy. Mrs Diamanto Manolakou from the Communist Party of Greece has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u55	We welcome the 40-hour pan-Hellenic alarm from the pilot service's staff. It started this morning, calling for the unacceptable Article 22 to be withdrawn, which excludes ships from navigating in ports. It is dangerous to cause maritime accidents and environmental pollution in order to reduce or relieve shipping companies from the relevant financial burden. The strikers and the club are now being dragged to the courts to declare the strike illegal. You won't make it. We invite you to withdraw this dangerous article. We remind you that last October a merchant ship flying the flag of Portugal that carried containers from Psythtalia for the Chanakale fell on the "CALESTO" of the Hellenic Navy, which at that time came out of the shipyard and destroyed the stern. The same was done in the Santorini Caldera in 2007 as “SEA DIAMOND”. He didn't have a navigator. It remains a toxic bomb on the seabed and threatens the marine ecosystem of our islands. Of course, the shipowner’s repayment of the debts and the lifting of the shipwreck has never been made, neither in New Democracy nor in SYRIZA nor in PASOK. You had sympathy. The decline in the public pilot service is a form of privatisation. The thirteen pilot stations pan-Hellenic, thirty - eight workers, make revenues from naval services, covering their costs. Therefore, we will now have a reduction in the volume of work and revenue, which will lead to the reduction of staff, namely unemployment and an increase in maritime accidents, with possible human losses and environmental disasters. But there is also a matter of national security. These are the results of your own policy, because above all you are interested in the business groups and, above all, the shipowners. That's what you do with this bill. In Article 16 "Measures to support seafarers' work" you promote the suspension of the shipping contract and extend it until 31 May, since in the summer you abolished collective labour contracts in a hundred and twenty thousand seafarers in the seafarer's seafarer's podium, thus satisfying a long, strategic demand for shipowners, breaking in raw and undermining unions' responsibilities to negotiate collective agreements with employers. The anti-corruption measures that you are promoting have huge losses in income and insurance funds of seafarers, with painful consequences for occupational diseases and fatal accidents, thereby ensuring uneven profits, accumulated in shipowners and other major companies. More than thirteen times, organic positions have been reduced in all categories of ships. Fourteen hours of work, exceeding sixteen to eighteen hours a day during the cargo landing of cargo ships and ferries during the tourist season. 24-hour readiness of seafarers on board ships, with an increase in occupational diseases and accidents as a result of the intensification to the full. With your amendment you are reducing the imposition of the penalty on the shipowner, manager and others for violating the relevant legislation from EUR 500 per person to EUR 1,000 per vessel. Shame on you! This is how you say shamefully: 'Get out the workers! We guarantee you fines - crumbs." It's laughing. In fact, it is unacceptable that you put the master jointly responsible, when you oblige him to work on ships with reduced organic compositions and hard conditions in the oceans. These are the requirements of the shipowners of the Passenger Shipping Association and you implement them. We now call on you to give us information on how many ships the Ministry has imposed sanctions for violating the working and resting time limit of seafarers and what sums in total have been paid, to see who you are mocking! Because behind the government's arguments to stimulate shipping and the competitiveness of the Greek register the requirements of armaments are hidden, which, in the midst of a pandemic, breaks one record of profitability after another, of course, shielded by all governments with provocative privileges, tax exemptions and constitutional provisions. And that's not enough. We are provoking a provocative, in an unacceptable way, after the second reading, an amendment to the RAL's 'expression'. It is guilty that the way you have followed, so that you do not have the opportunity to express an opinion, to inform, since she was invited to the bodies. So what are you doing? First of all, the JRC's position on allegedly independent regulators in ports, energy, etc. is confirmed. When they go to implement their responsibilities and do not like the government, then remove them. That is what you have done with the other 'entropology'. You have been weakened by most of the RAL's powers to investigate, but also by imposing sanctions, so that the immunity of monopolies, such as Chinese in Piraeus, which violates agreements illegally, is served. The same goes for other operators, for example solid and liquid waste, so that they do not find any obstacle. There is complete immunity, with dramatic consequences for workers, residents, environment of the region, such as Drapetsona, Perama and elsewhere, where official measurements of the research institute "DIMMOCRITIS" and Observatory documentedly highlight their carcinogenic, polluting action. And yet, they remain unpredictable, because all governments are protecting the polluters' profits and then pretending to be economists! That's your hypocrisy! That's what you do to Article 30. Delete an environmental impact and authorisation requirement. Even the ceiling for non-information, according to the General Accounting Report, is now EUR 15 000, instead of EUR 1% on turnover. I mean, five-eight-dollars are the fines. The merger of RAL's responsibilities removes it from the competence to implement the well-known Euro Regulation 352/2017, which you transfer to the Ministry of Shipping. In other words, you are effectively abolishing the RAL, which was supposed to control the application of this regulation, namely the opening up of free competition to other operators and which is the responsibility of the executive, the Ministry of Shipping. I mean, "Yiannis is buying, Yannis drinks"! Also, following on from this legislative gift, the old Article 113a is repealed, which provided for penalties for infringements of the same Euro regulation. It is no coincidence that this morning it was the apology of the PPA, the 'COSCO', before the RAL, following complaints by another entrepreneur for violating this Euroregulation. There is therefore no concern about the illegal. They can continue to violate blatantly. That is what you tell us in this scandalous amendment! That's right. Some legislate so comfortfully as they blackmail their workers. Your mindset is Louis IF's. You are therefore abolishing regulatory, regulatory and supervisory powers of the authority, in its interpretation, without any timely and substantial information. In fact, RAL, as it officially informs us and in detail about all of this, has today also been the hearing of the PPA, that is, 'COSCO'. And finally, with enthusiasm, the apologies, that is, the 'COSCO', goes to the courts, that they are illegal with your own backs. You are urging workers and their rights! That's your policy! Finally, with the bill and amendments, you are levelling everything left in business groups. At the same time, you are creating all the necessary financial instruments so that the 70 billion planned by the government by 2026 are primarily shared in the various sectors of capital, namely large-scale companies. So you are interested in being ready, as Ministry of Shipping, with all those tools to taste, to unravel billions of people's money, the jaws of logistics, tourists, shipping, transport, energy capital and not just. What does it involve? It includes new advantages for the capital as a whole, intensity of the exploitation of workers, state and Community funding, strengthening the competitiveness of shipping, i.e. the profitability of shipowners and business groups operating in maritime transport, ports, ship repairs, coastal tourism, fisheries, aquaculture, mining and transport of oil, gas, also storage and distribution infrastructures through pipelines from the ports of the country. You're giving them everything. Promote all the necessary infrastructure to serve them through the Public Works Programme, not, of course, for the modern needs of the people and especially the islands. The special "Newarchos" programme described and funded by the Public Investment Programme, the ESDP or the Development Programme, is a programme based on always the profitability of business groups, with photographic provisions and not on the real and modern needs of the labouring people on the islands. In Samos, for example, were they gathered yesterday and what were they saying? There are children who are not yet in school because of damage caused by the murderous earthquake, because the necessary prefabricated rooms have not been sent. Adequate suitable rooms have not been provided for temporary relocation, but for transport for all children. They also have shortages of doctors and teachers, shortages in infrastructure, staff in various public services serving more popular needs and not suffering. And most importantly, there was once the reduced VAT. Now it only applies to the islands that have refugees and are renewed every six months. And yet, this was some relief for the islands, small and large. Today you and SYRIZA say that it's the equivalent of transport. It is not true and you know it, because overall tickets and especially transport costs have increased too, too. For you, blue growth and competitiveness are linked to privatisations and coarse money only for capital and, above all, logistics. What's your concern now? How you will grant subsidies for shipyards, as the average age of the ship fleet is very high and a replacement problem arises. Evidently under Article 12 and the eight authorizing provisions to the Minister, the Minister will decide in a transparent and non-transparent manner on the inclusion of beneficiaries for loans, on a financing procedure with a request and, in particular, on a transport service in the island. That's right. You buckle them with money for barren lines, for equivalent transport. And now, with the Recovery Fund, you'll put them into green development because of ecological fuel and digitalisation packages. That's where billions go and not to people's needs. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll need a minute and a half, Mr. President. As far as maritime education is concerned, we hear that Article 17 will be withdrawn, which is photographic for a large shipowner. Of course, the problems are many and large. In education staff 77% of teachers are matured. The existing infrastructure and a piece of logistics have remained the same for twenty years. No expenditure is planned for building new outbreaks or for exploiting existing ones, which are pressing. You also seem to institutionalize teleworking, thus reducing the needs of educational staff. But living teaching is irreplaceable. We therefore have every reason to vote against this bill and the amendments as deeply anti-grassy, classic, anti-environmental and unfair. We support both the requests from the Hellenic Navy Engineering Association and WHOEN for recruitment to the Ministry. We are therefore voting against.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u56	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I now tell you what the programme is like, asking once again - it is what the Services have asked me to do - if any party will table a roll-call vote. We will continue with Mr. Vassiliardos from the Greek Solution and with Mr. Georgios Logiadis from Mera25. Immediately after that, the President of the Greek Parliamentary Group, Mr Velopoulos, will speak. Members will follow - the first circle of speakers - in a natural presence. Mr. Villard, you have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u57	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, firstly, there is no point in the ongoing statement and discussion of bills here that the government has made, with the 2020 cash deficit at EUR 24.1 billion or 15% of GDP, that is, 2009, as well as with the current account deficit at the heights, which means that we are reintroducing much more products and services than we are exporting, so our private sector continues to be charged alongside the public sector. Even worse, it makes no sense with the public debts of over 370 billion or 230 % of GDP, almost twice as much as 2009, with the recession at more than 10%, with the red private debt - we stress, red, not the total - of EUR 260 billion, from EUR 240 billion recently, and with the real economy literally falling apart. It makes no sense, when the only thing that the New Democracy Government produces, such as the six-year period 2004-2009, is damage and debt - I repeat, losses and debts! - for whose coverage he doesn't know to do anything but borrow and triumph. Of course, it does not say that the Greeks will pay for them in the multiple, and they will also be demanded - although we assume that they have already been called for - for exchanges. What kind of consideration? Obviously marine sovereign rights and immediately after national sovereignty, sea and territorial, since this same party, New Democracy, has already succumbed to all our assets in 2012. In addition, SYRIZA did something similar with the extension of EUR 95 billion in 2018, in return for Macedonia's name. The New Democracy, of course, supports the agreement with Skopje, even though they do not respect it to the minimum, even exporting products to Macedonia in Europe. It simply hesitates to bring the three Memorandums of Cooperation with Skopje, apparently fearing the fair reactions of its Macedonian MPs, especially after Mr Samaras's accusations. Unfortunately, judging in fact, it is not only inadequate, but - even worse - dangerous, while it fails to understand that without a sustainable economy, without the recovery of our economic independence, we cannot talk about national sovereignty. For example, if one owes the bank and needs even more credit, having promised his home and salary, he is certainly not financially independent or sovereign of his home, while his creditors impose what they want. The same applies to the parties they owe, such as the New Democracy that owed 320 million in 2019 from 290 million in 2018, where it was even charged 30 million in just one year. As if it were not enough, and not all of this, it seems clear from her actions that she hates businesspeople. He literally hates restaurants, real estate owners, small and medium-sized businesses and so on, in the shops where the virus is transmitted, while in the supermarkets it is not transmitted. The bill contains forty articles, the first twelve of which concern integrated maritime policy in the island area. We did not see, however, that these twelve articles constitute an integrated policy, and such splendid definitions, such as'sea policy', 'national strategy', etc., usually result in wishes. On the other hand, what really is the point of launching an island policy, when we have not yet established fishing zones in the Aegean, when we allow the Turks to fish in our own seas and to export our own fish, when we are the only country on the planet that has allowed fishing in the Ionian Sea, within its territorial waters, to Italy, so in all the countries of the European Union? Tomorrow the Spanish or any other people will be able to fish there. Also, what is the point when the government avoids answering the question of'red' lines with Turkey when it escapes in relation to the yalitis zone of our Aegean islands, claiming that we should be careful whether we are making a mistake in the issue of transits? What would be the mistake and how does it propose to avoid it? Continuing, as referred to in the first article, is the definition of the framework for the design and specificisation of the guidelines of our national strategy for integrated maritime policy in the island area, the identification of development policies and funding programmes. It is therefore not a plan, but a framework. Article 4 analyses the national strategy in seven sub-sections. All this, together with their explanations, seems reasonable, so you cannot vote against it directly, hoping that they are the first step towards something better. Of course, we have seen no quantitative objectives and no visions, just as there are nowhere in the bills submitted by the government. The island country, however, has many problems, especially now, with tourism. We believe that the sea is the heart of Greece. The sea is really the heart of Greece! We believe that this is our "blue country", which our barbaric neighbours view with their German allies and that no island is far away. Incidentally, we imagine that a number of people would read the recent article - which we will present in the Minutes - which confirms our references to huge tax evasion and money laundering in Germany of EUR 100 billion annually - 100 billion annually! - that is more than half our GDP is money laundering in Germany. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This is literally the country of corruption and fraud, when it tells us about honesty, it imposes on us memorials, it humiliates us every day, it denies us sanctions in Turkey, and it 'killed' and Cyprus. Don't forget! As far as the financing of all the things mentioned in the bill is concerned, we see only the names of funds from which it will come, but not the sums, which are not even in the report of the General Accounting Office of the State. In particular, the following sources are mentioned: First, the NEARTHOS programme, Article 6, for public projects in infrastructure, in ports, in cabotage, in water and energy, secondly, the Island Entrepreneurship Financing Programme, in Article 7, which will be covered by the Public Investment Programme, both the Co-financed and the National Part through the Development Bank and, thirdly, the Maritime-Blue Economy Fund, in Article 8 on innovation, and also covered by the NSR and the Public Investment Programme. However, we have raised recent communications, since the NRPs and recovery programmes are currently being drawn up. We have found the funds for the regional programmes in the NSRP 2021-2027, which we have tabled to the committee in the Minutes, noting that it is not enough. The Minister, of course, assured us that funds are leveraged by ten to twenty times, something which has impressed us and which we hope, of course, will happen, but it is very difficult to believe. Then, in order to highlight the problem, we have analysed the activity of the regions where, based on the most recent of ELSTAT, the island regions themselves create about 9.9% of our GDP with 15% of our country's population. The problem, however, is that much of this activity depends on tourism. In this regard, one understands that with the reduction of tourism by 75% to 80% these regions must have a very serious problem. This problem will be exacerbated in 2021, where tourism is not expected to recover, on the basis of reservations and uncertainty about whether the population is covered in the European Union or globally with a vaccine. We forecast at least 30% of 2019 revenue. Therefore, there is an urgent need for a change in our tourism and economic model, as well as in the country as a whole. On the other hand, it is also a matter of national policy, and transport, shipping, shipping and ship repair in general must be supported. We have made such proposals many times in the past, for internal tourism we have proposed EUR 300 million - instead of EUR 100 million - which the government has given - to connecting tourism to the primary sector and to the islands as well as to energy savings. We have not, however, seen any reference to dealing with the phenomenon of the abandonment of the small islands, especially those of aged people, overwhelmingly less than many decades, due to migration and birthhood. From 1951 until today, fifty inhabited small islands have been empty. They're empty! The example is the Eretussa of the Diapondin Islands, which had, according to the 2011 census, four hundred ninety-five inhabitants, while today only sixty, with only twenty of them. In addition, it does not specifically refer to the draft law, especially to professional fishing, as one would reasonably expect from a national strategy as an integral part of the blue economy and the coastal zone of our country. The positive measures are the concession of agialou for ship repair activities on the wooden and especially on the traditional vessels, in Articles 28 and 29, noting that we have stressed in our programme that traditional vessels are part of our cultural tradition and must be protected. In some articles now, we have proposed that the funding of projects should also be provided in Article 6, since many municipal port funds or OTAs cannot afford the burden of their own funding. We also proposed the operation of central desalinisation units that will be connected to the local water supply networks, where, if we understood correctly, the Minister agreed and would include them. Finally, we proposed examining the establishment of a special shipping bank. We also have a special shipping bank in our programme, which can attract funds from shipowners. In Article 7 we have proposed that the type of entrepreneurship to be supported should be studied, namely that the money should not be given to rooms to let and hotels, by continuing unregulated development, but by region, with particular reference to primary production and to our young people, as well as to innovation, even to small crafts units, which at least in the agri-food sector can and must be strengthened. As we have said, the issue is mainly national except for economics, as far as decentralisation is concerned and so on. Our main objection was in Article 12, according to which policy depends on ministerial decisions. In this respect, the Government is creating another'super-ministry', in its dear strategy, which absolves the role of policy making by Parliament, something which does not agree with us, since we are in favour of democratic processes. As regards Greece's participation in the costs of the North Atlantic Patrol Service, in Article 14, despite our efforts to find in no legal basis this piece of legislation. We searched and didn't find it. The amount for these patrols in the General Accounting Office of the State is EUR 2.4 million for the years 2013 and 2015-2018, while being retrospectively provided from 1st to 1st-2013, a large amount of the situation that Greece is in for no reason whatsoever. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Two, three more minutes, I would still like to see it, Mr President. In Article 16, we said that the sum of EUR 534 is insufficient for families to live, so there should be greater support for areas not to leave behind. With regard to Article 22, it is essentially intended to abolish the Navigation Service, in order to reduce the costs of some shipowners and of course to 'COSCO'. However, safety at ports is at stake, which we consider to be unacceptable and we think should be withdrawn. To close, in Article 33, which concerns the participation of our port in the respective House of Europe, we are totally negative, since we must preserve our own borders, with the view that we cannot expect anything similar from Europe, that we are on our own. We reminded us that the European Union has financed EUR 20 million in 2017 only the vessels of Turkey, with which it is now harassing our port and fishermen, which means that we are indeed on our own. Finally, Article 39 said that this is another procedure, as is customary, which covers uses since 2012, such as Antikkara, for an area next to the facilities of "Aluminium of Greece" in the White Houses of Boeotia, which we have mentioned in the past on the very serious environmental burden issues it faces. In our question whether the purpose is to close cases and what the controls found, unfortunately, we did not receive any response, assuming that this strong businessman can impose what he wants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u58	Mr. George Logiadis has the floor from Mera25 for fifteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr President. Today it is January 27th, Memorial Day of the Greek Jewish witnesses and heroes of the Holocaust and International Holocaust Victims Memorial Day from the Nazi regime during World War II. On January 27, 1945, the largest concentration and extermination camp in Auschwitz Birkenau, Poland was released. We never forget. Never again. Their memory is eternity. In today's draft law, ladies and gentlemen, this general and vague draft law is a blessing with a flagrant but false and grand title, under which "private" and the promotion of oligarchal interests suffer. The three questions raised are which marine and island economy we are talking about, who are implementing it and who are fruiting it. It is true that a draft law on island Greece does not once refer to the word "islanders". The reference to island entrepreneurship is limited. This is essentially a project to protect the island and marine wealth and a clear distinction between the islands and islands by cutting off the latter from the islands. We did not meet anywhere in the bill clear clauses for the absorption of the island labour force into investment. We have not met any clauses in favour of public investment on the islands in areas such as health, education, in proportion to investment and business activity, which is so great in this bill. What integrated maritime policy are we talking about when Greece does not even have shipyards, as the Piraeus Chamber of Commerce points out? Greece has one of the largest commercial fleets in the world and its ships build them in Korea, Japan, China and elsewhere. And the ships being dismantled are sending them to Turkey, which is using them for its benefit. We don't even have a Greek classification. It has been closed for a long time and the workers in it are still unpaid. The problems of the eastern Aegean fishermen are well known to everyone. Turkish fishermen are constantly entering Greek territorial waters by fishing and never raised the issue of their arrest or punishment. And SYRIZA with Law 4619/2019 abolished Article 401 of the Criminal Code, which stated that foreign vessels fishing without entitlement to the kayalitis zone of the Greek state are punished with a financial penalty or with an imprisonment of up to six months. Chapter F and Article 30 exclude specific projects from environmental authorisations and impact studies. I would like to stress that, beyond the laws of each state, it is the morality of its citizens, which is largely dependent on the example of the governors. And as the wise people say, the fish from the head stinks. In Article 24, ‘The Single Port Community Platform’, the major theme for us, for the Mer25, is in today's digital age the question to whom this platform belongs, which contains very sensitive information and data? Whose property is this software? No one knows which foreign company can interfere with a button in our tax software. In the digital age this represents a maximum risk and full dependence on the outside for Mera25. With Article 4(1a), which refers to port policy for ports and infrastructures, in conjunction with Article 6 for the financing of public projects, such as the improvement and development of ports and their infrastructure, we see that you will upgrade these ports and infrastructures with the money of the Greek taxpayer and after these ports and their infrastructure, which fall within the TIPID, you will grant them in whole or you will retreat or sell them, as you have answered on 28-2-202020 in my written question and to your Ministry for the ten ports of Heraklion, Alexandroupolis, Volos, Elefsina Igoumenitsas, Kavalas, Corfu, Lavrio, Patras and Rafena. And it says in your reply, namely: 'Finally, we are telling you that recently with Articles 12, 13,14 of Law 4664/2020 we have improved the status of sub-commissions and, more generally, the institutional regime governing investment in ports'. What does Article 12 mention? ‘The concessions concluded between the Greek State and the port authorities referred to below shall be declared and become effective. and of which the duration is sixty years’. And Article 13: “It is transferred and transferred without consideration to the public limited company under the name “The Private Property Response Fund of the State S.A.” (THEDE) the right to subrogation to third parties”. Is this how the scheme governing investment improves? On the other hand, however, we see that for ports that do not belong to these tens, such as Carlovashi, Kukari, Vathy, Pythagorio, you have done absolutely nothing, no energy, no investment to restore these losses from the recent earthquake in Samos. Investment and modernise and upgrade what you want to sell. In Article 4(1 )(e), which refers to the blue professions and the blue economy with regard to blue hydrocarbons mining, we in the Mera25s from our establishment are totally opposed to all forms of mining of fossil fuels that are burdening and destroying the environment and exacerbating the climate crisis. Chapter I refers to provisions for operations on wooden vessels. This is ironic or excitement, because I read from the newspaper 'New KRITI' on July 31, 2018, it refers to Lasithi, that a huge blow against coastal fishing is characterised by the European Union's subsidised destruction and withdrawal of traditional wooden caves. This is a crime against the country's cultural heritage, while at the same time depriving the traditional shipbuilding art. Further, this bill deprives seafarers, navigation services, excludes unjustly long-term unemployed, paves the way for the sale of ports and infrastructures. This is explicitly forbidden to do so by the German public, respectively. Also, as with every move, with every draft law to digital governance, everything ultimately ends up and binds to our independence from democracy but fully dependent on the AIA troika. Thucydides had said: "Make the sea state." You deceive it and privatize everything. We do not deserve this policy as Greece. Any bill cannot mobilise investment by Greeks, which are subject to overtax and to 100% prepaid tax, which is essentially a tax burden, always committed in debt prison since 2010, as we have been stressing as MERA25. I would add here that foreign colosses, such as 'FACEBOOK', 'AMAZON', 'NETFLIX', 'GOOGLE', are taxed at absolute zero in Greece for their revenue. Merra25 has tabled three amendments to their taxation at a rate of 4% on their turnover, but which has not been accepted by your Government. I would like to stress the enormous injustice and displeasure of all of Crete that, for Crete, they have remained out of transport equivalent to the six thousand SADs from all eight thousand present for the island of Greece. As MERA25, we are opposed to privatisation of ports and infrastructures, mining, non-Greek public software - and behind here is the AIA and the troika - and the depreciation that brings about the points we have shown in this draft law. That is why we are voting against both amendments. I will conclude by saying that the Merra25, but also myself, as a new Member of Parliament, are calling for the 2010 bankruptcy file to be opened, as the Prime Minister had announced in an election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u60	Thank you. The President of the Greek Parliamentary Group, Mr Velopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u61	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to begin by reminding all of us that today is a very important day. Like today - for years they did - the Nazis have been chasing a people persecuted, grounded, the Jews. It is a day when we all have to think that in the Greek Parliament they do not fit in with nazis. Any behaviours that have to do with human dignity, human life, must be directed primarily at fascist, nazi regimes and cultures which are not related to man and we should indeed all honour this day, which is very important. I started this way because I believe it is my duty to remind everyone that Greece has suffered a similar process, persecution, Pontius, Asia Minor, East Caribbeans and East Caribbeans. Unfortunately, however, the Greek state has done nothing to transform the 'light' of these massacres throughout the world. It's one of the tragic crimes that Greece has committed for decades. Minister, welcoming, ironhead! I wish you the best, although the well-known proverb "the good morning seems", I do not see it very good on the day, because I would say it is a predatory bill. If we don't have an election by June, you'll get another bill again. Remember that. That is the problem with the Greek government, whatever government. He's bringing a bill, he's doing it "rap-glue", he's gonna need another bill to correct the previous one, in the next bill he'll again have gaps, to correct the second one. So we have a state that almost every month legislates, laws are certainly not being implemented, anyway, but above all they are often poorly legislated on government work. Now listen, you say 'integrated maritime policy'. Nice, heavy title. I like it. It reminds me of a project that technocrats say, which is legless. Why? Once you're talking about island policy, set fishing zones. The island policy also concerns fisheries. Our country at the end of March is called - the end date - to set fishing zones. So we will arrive after March and pay a fine because we did not establish fishing zones and see my "friend" Spanish, Moroccan, Italian, in any case, fishing in the Aegean, as the Turks do every day and do what they do in Imia or in other regions. I say this because you are wrongly carrying out legislative work and fearful of Turkey. In two months' time, then, the deadline will end, the Greek people will be invited for the infinity of SYRIZA, PASOK, KINAL - PASOK and the New Democracy for decades not to establish fishing zones. The Greek people will pay a fine in their pocket. That's a truth. Make fishing zones. Only Turkey has 68 million profits in fish from the Aegean, ladies and gentlemen. It is well known - if I'm not mistaken, on a site of yours it was published in Capital.gr and SKAI published it -68 million a year in fish from the Aegean Sea. It's 68 million stolen money from our fishermen. It is 68 million euro stolen money from our Greek fishermen. The same mistake you made with the reduced influence on the Ionian Sea a few months ago. They will be able to take the red shrimp, which is extremely expensive, your Italian friends, who have been enemies of Greece for centuries, do not be fooled. Not to say Byzantium, Roman Empire, '40 and all that, I'm passing it, but I'm saying it to understand it. You're doing the same thing all the time. You say 'national strategy'. Without an exclusive economic zone? What Ministry of Shipping do you have? You'll tell me that the exclusive economic zone is the responsibility of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. No, it's also about the Ministry of Commerce, since it's about the sea. Of course, I think it is foolish - I do not know who legislated and we are still keeping it - to belong to the fish in rural development. You know fish, fishing - it's a world patent! - they belong to agriculture, the Ministry of Rural Development, and they must be your work, your Ministry. You're the one responsible for the sea. Now how the minister from the field can go to sea, I never understood. Why don't you change it? Is the fisheries owned by the Ministry of Rural Development? So we're talking about incredible things! And you legislate now. Listen, national strategy you say in the bill. I don't see. I can't see for remote islands. I'm not gonna say about Erecussa. If you knew how rich the islands are, my Minister! I said it in 2007, in 2008, in 2009. Five billion barrels of oil have only the Copernicus Islands. I'm not saying it. Zellides, Conophagos, certain geologists have been dealing with the subject for too many years. As a journalist, I know that well. And that's not all. There's also natural gas. That's why the Italians pressed to leave the overseas islands out of the definition of an exclusive economic zone. And you're doing the reduced influence, another mistake of your government. Listen, do you have others that I could quote, but these EUR 2.4 million that our country will make available to patrol - says - against the North Atlantic ices? Christ and God bless you! You'll tell me it results from international circumstances etc. I respect that. Of course Greece is the only country that fulfils all the conditions for applying all international treaties, but even those in favour of it do not apply them properly. International law, we say. Why don't you give it to the Greek who's hungry? We're bankrupt. Make an exception. Say 'hey, children, we cannot, because we have gone bankrupt and borrowed to give the EUR 2.4 million'. Let's give it someplace for an investment, so we can have jobs. Not to say about Europeans! I see, let's say, the Germans guard the Aegean, our friends, on their own ships, say, the Italians, the French! Don't tell me about FRONTEX. She's like the wheelchairs. Everyone's going free. I'm saying this to understand that you're making mistakes. We have sincerely built a state of parasitic, Minister. I was expecting the government to fix it. I see here that the employees of the Hellenic Space Center will take overtime in 2021. Do we have an Space Center? Do we have a platform to Kennedy from where we launch missiles and spacecraft? I have before me a document from the Minister of State. Overtime for the Space Center to send us all to space like aliens! Christ and God bless you! Yeah, you know, they're some of those glaucombs, which if you look at "Goodness," they find them. Where's that Space Center? Cape Canaveral? Where? You tell me. How many employees are they? What can we talk about? Which country are we talking about? For a more final state envisioned by the Greek Prime Minister? The Greeks believed him - and he defied the Greek people's vote - for a serious state. Is this a serious state that has an Space Center? ‘Officials of the Hellenic Space Centre’. All right, hold them on the spaceships, send them to Mars. Let's go to the rest. My Minister, this has nothing to do with you, but I'll say it. Friday at 13:00, I'll be at the Orestiad penitentiary. Your government is committing a crime nationally. Hot spot on the border with Turkey. There are three hundred people there and you bring me two thousand people, right behind our country's defense line from the river Evros. Any soldier who really asks who honors his pants - and they are many who honor his pants - will tell you that this is a national crime, to place people who don't know who they are, they don't have travel documents, they don't have passports, behind the back of the Greek Army. I will be there on Friday at 13 a.m. with the people, with the public, protesting about this. Moreover, I cannot understand these patriots of your place, New Democracy, who are many and some had gone to the rallys in doubt. You were, too, if I'm not mistaken, at the rally. Were you? You weren't like Paul Melas. Others were like Paul Melas. It was Paul Melass, Gogo, Captain Tellus Agras, that all the Macedonians there were gathered, MPs and former Prime Ministers. Yesterday, Skopje President Stevo Pentarovski interviewed. Did anyone read it to your State Department? I'm sure not. Did you send a démarche? Here's what Pentarovski, the President of their Republic, said. Republic! In any case, you say as if Mrs Sakellariou were doing so. He said: “We have our people who are declared Macedonians in Greece. We do not give up on them in the Embassy Agreement.' I will present the statement from the President of Skopje. This is a criminal offence. It's a flagrant violation of the Prespecies Agreement. Complaint him, but officially. They have - says - in Greece Macedonians declared. I mean, he's talking about altruism, sovinism, expansionism. Who? I'll tell you what. The Fisherman of Skopje, the last President of a mosaic, a form, a state with various minorities and ethnicities, where there are two hundred thousand Greeks and never the Greek Government has done anything to protect them. Bollocks and not just! I'm telling you, the President of Skopje is telling you. He's talking about Macedonians in Greece! Where's the démarche? Where are the Macedonians? They're coming out, they're interviewing many of them, a statement - they've forgotten - the sanctions go through that way. I can't imagine the President of Parliament is still carrying them in his drawers - those protocols. They are the protocols of the SYRIZA Prespecies, who support you in all your options and, as Mr. Katrugalos said yesterday, even sign a treason, a disgraceful agreement, an endivism in the Aegean Sea and amputate it, they will support you. In the end, you'll be running. This is your plan, by order of the Germans, to collide with SYRIZA and New Democracy. That's reality. You agree on everything. The only ones you disagree with are in Kufontina and education. The major issues with SYRIZA coincide with specific points of view. Greek-Turkish, skopje, memorials, economy are the same, but you disagree with some, to rally your party audience. That's the culmination, ladies and gentlemen. I also want to report an incident. There have been some strange guys, Mr. colleague, and they have written - it is a daily phenomenon - in the church in Peristeri: "We have chosen to leave the symbol of absolute freedom in an area of absolute subjection, wanting to send a direct message to the paparian that we do not forget crimes committed." It was - it says - an anarchist group on a website. Every day congregations are desecrated by false anarchists. They're not anarchists. For me the anarchist respects each other's ideology. These are not anarchists. I have not heard any party, however, coming out to make a statement about what is happening to the congregations. Tombs are defiled, monuments, not only abroad in Turkey, but also in Greece. Why does not any party go out to talk about the xenophobia that prevails and terrorise Christians everywhere? You tell me! Let's go now, ladies and gentlemen, in Greek-Turkish. Gentlemen of the New Democracy are making world changes. Unfortunately, Greece is absent from all developments. We are absent from our foreign policy from many levels. We were the ones a year and a half ago yelling at the Minister for France. We told the Prime Minister about Rafale, we told him about good relations with Egypt, see you and see you again, but you're late. The Indian army chief, General, Mr. Bucksey, is coming out. I don't know if you know him. His name is Gagan Buckshi. "Erdogan is making a cultural war. It sends immigrants to salt Europe." And he talked about the alliance with Greece. A month and a half ago I spoke to friends and friends, to the Greek Minister, Mr. Panayotopoulos, and said to him: "Get the Indians in the country. Bring the Indian Navy." Because Pakistan has warships in the Aegean Sea south of Kastelorizos, because it is a friendly allied country with Turkey. They're sister countries. Get rid of all Pakistani who have come without paperwork in Greece in recent years. They're potential provocators. They can do us harm. They're friends of the Turks. I said it with evidence. I filed it with the Minister. What does a serious country have to do? Call the Minister of Foreign Affairs officially to visit Greece, Indo, yesterday, today. Do it. Do it, guys! India has a problem with Pakistan because of Kashmir. There has been this conflict for too many years. Pakistan is a friend of Turkey. India is a potential friend of Greece. Do that, too. Also, find a way to avoid losing Israel, ladies and gentlemen, because it is a disguise along with Egypt in the region's Mediterranean stability. Israel must not be lost. Because I hear whispers from Israel, from the Minister of Energy, who said a number of things about the pipeline. EastMed is an expensive duct. It's one of the expensive ducts because it's a submarine duct. That's true. It would make it easier for the international player to do it from North Africa - there are conflicts - or from the Occupied to Turkey, bringing Turkey up as an energy hub. Don't let that happen. Israel must be costly with Greece, with Egypt, with Cyprus. Don't lose Israel, this very powerful country. Ladies and gentlemen, I will tell you to understand this because of the exploratory work. National issues at times require - I am sure I will say it - to see their essence. What is the substance in relation to Turkey? The intransigent attitude often favours the intransigent. So if we make concessions on essential issues, the game is gone. We'll never win the losers again. And I'll tell you as a popular expression. Whatever's been earned in blood, you get it back in blood if you lose it. It's for granted. And Thrace, the Aegean, the Dodecanese, Kastelorizo, Cyprus was won with blood. If they're lost, we'll only win them again with blood, never with diplomatic agreements. This is the raw reality in history. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] In Cyprus, if you remember well, in 2004 they said a great "no" to the Annan plan. This is where everyone pushed for the Annan plan. Everybody! And the New Democracy back then and the PASOK, then you were all with the Annan Plan. Tasos Papadopoulos came out and said "no". What happened next? Let me tell you. Cyprus entered the European Union, with the 'no' of the Annan project, which was a bad thing for Cyprus with all of Europe. He said 'no' to the Annan plan and then they joined Europe. What does that mean? That "no" often you say as a country is the profit on your national theme. Proved by Papadopoulos. You'll tell me that Papadopoulos isn't many. I'm referring to Tassos Papadopoulos, no one gets confused. Clearly there aren't many. This Papadopoulos needs Greece, Tassos Papadopoulos, for the great "no", not the great "yes", consensus, exploratory research and to give land and water. That is why the Greek Solution says that the "no" has become great. The 'no' of the '40s, the 'no' - if you like - which we have to say every day. That is why we ask for a four-year period, for the great "no" of the Greeks who will become the triumph of Greece. That's why we're saying we're asking for a four-year period from the Greek people. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] I would like to read something that I consider particularly important. Ladies and gentlemen, we must understand what the Turks want. The Turks don't want friendship. They never wanted friendship. See what they're doing over their borders. Where they cannot be imposed by reason, they are forcefully imposed. It is Thucydides' logic that the Athenians dominate the Miles, for those who read a little story. We must not think that Turks are a peaceful state. The exploratory, for which the Greek Government is now going when the casus belli at any time and at any time on the other hand, is a national retreat and fearful syndrome. That's the reality. So Mr Mitsotakis' government insists on dialogue. Listen, we all want dialogue, that is true, but yesterday Mr Cavusoglu spoke of casus belli again. What kind of dialogue is it that you're going with the gun to the head? It's not dialogue. It is a move to subdue and'support' the country in Turkey. It is a 'finalisation' movement of Greece towards reality. That's the reality. Of course, we made our unilateral right to extend the territorial waters to twelve nautical miles, bilateral. Why is it our self-evident unilateral right, based on International Law, to do so bilaterally? And when the Greek Prime Minister says that all we have to discuss with the Turks is maritime areas, will you please, gentlemen of the New Democracy? Does he please you? You can't discuss marine zones. It's international law and you're talking about it? Let me tell you: The continental shelf. Let's talk about it. But specific things, not talking about sea zones. It's a national offense, what the Prime Minister does. You'll tell me, when you have the Apostolid there, what are you waiting for? How do you say yes to an investigation into the Turkish pact? It's real, it's a violation of international law. In other words, you are legalising the Turkish pact, the 'blue home', the casus belli and all that overthrows all stability in the region. And Israel says so, Egypt says so, Cyprus says so. We all say it: 'Why are you going to dialogue now?' What do they want? Let me tell you what the Turks want. Have you read Jihan Yaji's tweet? Look to see who the gentleman is. It is one of those who are conducting a serious policy in Turkey and which, unfortunately, we do not have. He says: "According to the Treaty of Montres, Alexandroupolis has demilitarized stops." Here's what the Turks officially ask us to do. And demilitarize Alexandroupolis. They're asking for ten to get the five. And they do well. What do we do? You invest in the Germans. You think the Germans are your friends. The Germans are friends of the Germans, the Germans are friends of Germany. And if you want the raw historical truth, the Germans have always been enemies of the Greeks. Always, for a hundred and eighty years, he was with the Turks. Don't be fooled. Always! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Tell me a historic moment when Germany was in favour of us, of the Greeks and of the Greek positions. Listen: Berlin, the German newspaper 'FAZ': 'Greek positions are silky', please. Can you hear them, ladies? The Greek positions are silky. In other words, it coincides entirely with the Turkish view. Also, Spain, which manufactures an aircraft carrier, which has borrowed Turkey, etc. Well done. To remember what crime was committed ten years ago by Greece for Spain? The Spanish shipyards ten years ago, my Minister, because you have something to do with the shipyards, were bankrupt. This has taken place in the European Union. If there was no consensus to rescue the Spanish shipyards, the Spanish would go bankrupt. Honourable Greece has, therefore, gone - poorly - and said: 'Save the Spaniards'. The Spanish shipyards have been saved and now they are doing the Turkish plane there. Where is the welfare and care of the country's administration to get something after giving something? It is the mistake you made with Bulgaria, with Romania, with Skopje and Albania, that you have made them not even a commitment on their part that they will help their country, Greece. Now listen, Germany, your friend, owes damages. SYRIZA and my symbol friends forgot. Corrections, indemnity, stolen antiquities, owes all this. Let's go down. What did Germany do for Greece? He imposed ten years of memorial to the country - this is the reality, because there is not Europe, but Germany alone - has made Greece an endless hot spot, made small Islamic towns all over Greece, imposed obstacles to the defensive Euro-French Agreement, the Germans with veto to Mr Mitsotakis and made back. He disproved of Turkey's invasion of Greek and Cypriot waters with the 'ORUCS REYS', protects Turkey from sanctions and now the Greek Government and the last 'nuclear weapon' we have, called 'declarations against Turkey by the European Union', which Turkey trembles, and the exploratory investigations dismantles it, disarms it. Big mistake, big crime, tragic. The only weapon before the war was sanctions. You are disarming, putting the detonator on and taking it out, when in March it was the last date - so you said at least - that the European Union would impose sanctions on Turkey for the challenges. How sensible is that? And Maas, German Foreign Minister, your German friend, Mr. New Democracy, and Mr. SYRIZA's gentlemen, comes out, and states: "The positive indications from the exploratory. Sanctions in the refrigerator.’ They're incredible what you're doing, they're bad mistakes, mistakes that hurt the single, blurred front that we have to have at this stage as Greeks. Report of the German International Relations Council, Minister. I'll testify to her in the Minutes. Unfortunately, the Prime Minister has been invited many times to this German Council of International Relations, with the barbaric title. What does the report say, in which the Greek Prime Minister has also been involved many times, ladies and gentlemen? 'The European Union must stop taking the part of Greece and Cyprus. To discuss the territorial waters of Greece.’ Those who do not believe, this is the report. I don't know if it was specifically the Prime Minister. It's gone twice. When this report by a German institution comes out and says that we are wrong, what Germany is our friend? I put it in the Minutes and that. It's eighty-five pages. Those who want to read it can read it. So when the Greek Prime Minister - the leader - goes to a stagnation at the German Council of International Relations, which defines Germany's foreign policy and says: "The European Union stops taking the part of Greece and Cyprus", it goes with a reasonable defeat. Go logically what you're going to give, not to get. And it's time for Greece finally to take, not give again. We're all giving, we need to get something for our homeland, for the Greek hirer, for the Greek retired. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Send Mr. Apostolidis. I've said a lot about Mr. Apostolidis. It reminds me a little of a special personality, timeless and intergroup, Apostolidis. In the Cypm was the man, in Alpha Bank, who invested in Turkey, Alpha Bank at the time. A sample of this gentleman, who was Secretary to the Greek Embassy in Cyprus in 1974, colleagues of the New Democracy and SYRIZA - who are you sending! - I'm reading you. In 2000, ELIAMEP. What a coincidence! Whatever stone you can pick up, the ELMEP. He says, "In 1974, a Turkish force was disembarked on the island." Apostolidis says it. The one we sent to defend the Greek land, the Greek islands, the territorial waters and our AOZ. That's what he said. That's what he wrote. It's not something I imagined. It's like sending the Nightmare to the Thermopylae. I'm telling you too much, so you can understand it. You don't send the Nightmare to the Thermopylae. To the Thermopylae, you send Leonidas and every Leonida who will say either these or the ones. Go to a set-up game to play Greece Krona - letters. You're making mistakes. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Also, because I have been asked by many colleagues, what is going on with the New Democracy, gentlemen, we have nothing to do with you. You do not go to each other, you do not go to be killed among yourselves, you do not go so-called patriots to say that you are patriots dressed in Paul Melas, Leonidas, Kolokotronis, we are not concerned. But I have one question to ask: why do these false patriots, patriots, Greeks who went to the rally do not sign up for a committee of inquiry for Macedonia? Why are they not signing now, when the President of Skopje said that there are Macedonians in Greece? So to become believers, gentlemen, that you have caught votes in blurred waters from the patriotism of the pure voters of the New Democracy and the pure voters of the Greeks, these housewives, sign the Committee of Inquiry into Macedonia in order to be believers, that what you mean. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] I will say it directly, to lower the light of Hellenism, to get into our lives - I say it directly - while we are Greeks, it is not an option. And I'm telling the New Democracy. It's not an option. Not with the gifts of our tribe. And I will say it differently, not with the gifts of the party that spoke of Greece, of nation, of history, of Orthodoxy. I address the neo-democrats, as well as the pure patriots of PASOK who spoke with Andreas Papandreou about national independence and popular sovereignty. No, we have a lot of power, we have a lot of responsibility towards the generations that come. Greeks, high-headed, to bring Greece back into our hands with proud foreign policy, with a policy worthy of Greeks. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] And I would like to close by, Mr President, so as not to abuse your time, to begin with a letter - I have two, three, today in the office - which I shall read to you on its own, and the mistakes of spelling and writing. "Valis from Gjijifis: We have a small café. They cut me off from the returnable advance 5, because in September and October, I had a bigger turnover than in 2019. I opened the cafeteria 12-9-2019 and it's natural in the first few months until they found out I had a little more work to do. We forget in March, April, May. I was closed. In June, July, August, there were measures and I had some people. November, December, January again. Without a job and money, how am I supposed to live? What am I supposed to do? Correct this injustice. I'm closed by them, and I'm entitled to the money. I owe for the first time in my life. Tell them to do something." Every day I accept such letters. I know that the neo-democratic Members are sad, hurt. Tell your ministers to help the Greek, the businessman, the small and medium-sized, the one who has a shop and is hungry today. Press your ministers. As much as SYRIZA's yelling, I, the JRC doesn't listen. The hundred and fifty eight if they become a hundred and forty-nine, the Minister's chair will be taken out of place and elections will be held. If they do not listen to the voice of the Greek people and the people are hungry more than they are hungry on the streets, you will be in trouble, gentlemen of the New Democracy. That's true! Because you're patriots, pressure your ministers! Let's go to the mistakes you've made - I'll tell you one more time - about the coronary. There's a coronary. Welcome to Mr. Polakis!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u62	Good to meet you!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u63	You said it well with the drugs. You heard us, that's good. Now I'll tell you, with evidence of New Democracy's lies with the coronary. And if you want the evidence, you'll find it in the Minutes. That's what we'll always do. ‘PFIZER’ vaccines for citizens other than tests. Listen. It is a publication of 'LE MONDE'. It says so by 'LE MONDE' here. They leaked an e-mail from the European Medicines Agency for the vaccine ‘PFIZER - BIONTECH’. What do the e-mails say? They say there have been different vaccines than those of the tests, i.e. a normal scam. Here's the 'LE MONDE' post, I'll put it in the Minutes. Lie second, with a second element from New Democracy: Vaccines will solve the problem. The “ASTRAZENECA” comes out and says that it is 8% the effectiveness of the “ASTRA” vaccine over sixty-five years. It's from a German newspaper, I'll testify to it in the Minutes. You made mistakes. You want evidence? Element 3: ‘BLOOMBERG’: ‘Vaccines do not show any death reduction’. Notes the “BLOOMBERG” that in New Zealand, Australia, Taiwan, which did not carry out vaccinations, they have infinite deaths as compared to those they did. It says 'BLOOMBERG'. I'll testify to that in the Minutes and that. We'll put it all in the Minutes. Element fourth, New Democracy said: “The vaccines are the panacea, the vaccine of “MERCK”.” The company "MERCK" comes out and says: "It does not achieve our immunity vaccine." I'll submit it to the Minutes. Element fifth, Deputy Head of British Health Services, Professor Van Tam: "We are not yet aware of the impact of the vaccine on transmission. No vaccine was ever 100% effective. Therefore, there is no guaranteed protection.’ And the country's Prime Minister did the whole spot, SYRIZA's gentlemen, who said the vaccine is the solution, lying. You'll tell me, the Prime Minister didn't know. When you don't know, you don't talk. You chew your words before you talk and you guarantee something you're not sure about. Even if he does, he says, both doses of the vaccine can carry the virus to someone else. And he says it's the man who's in charge of British health services. Point 5, Sweden against ‘PFIZER’. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, Sweden asks for money behind the PFIZER. Do you know why? Because they stole the doses. Her government took twenty-five million doses, which means 1/6 of the money, about 80 million euros, some say. Will he ask behind the PFIZER? He's gonna send an out-of-court? Will he send a lawsuit? Will it do something or will it give the 80m euros to PFIZER and some of our best friends can get, will the bad guys say, at least 5, 10m euros from the vaccines in the pocket? You tell me. Why don't you do something? And Sweden is suspending payments. Why? Because they think the vaccine doesn't do its job. Let's go below with the seventh element. Can I tell you something? I'll say it straight away. The money that PFIZER got is stolen. They're stolen. With puppies, they took more money. Bring back the stolen PFIZER, if what the World Health Organisation says is true. It is 80m euros, is it 10m euros, is it 20m euros? Find out how much it is. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] The Italian Prime Minister, Conde, is threatening to sue vaccine companies. What's the government doing? Is he gonna do something? Is he going to court? Is he going to appeal to the European Courts? And it is so certain that the government is good for Europe! Didn't get a hammer from September, October when I was talking here and saying to them: "Children, have you got any clauses? Does the company have criminal and civil liability?’ And that's where the ministers told me it was. And it is now clear that the European Union has not set a single quality assurance clause for medicinal and vaccine - not one - and compensation. Also, all countries are looking to find vaccines from others. Why are we alone in PFIZER? A poor option would say that at the end of the day PFIZER has a sponsorship of the New Democracy. He'd be poor, I don't believe that anyway. But such obsession? There are other vaccines, such as 'SPUTNIK', which they are not with RNA and they take 10 other European countries. Why wouldn't you take it? Tell me about it! We've been talking since October. I said, "There's a medicine, there's a medicine, there's a medicine, there's a medicine"! You were kidding. You were giving evidence of others. Now I'm giving evidence. We're talking about collicins, given to patients with a coronary. Element first: safe, cheap, effective. Reduction of mortality of 44%, 25% hospitalisation, need for intubation of 50%. It is the Canadian 'COLORNA' study in which Greece participated. Greece participated. In other words, Greece participates in a project, as the technocrats say, in order to create a medicine. The Prime Minister, however, supports the vaccine, instead of supporting this project, if Greece gets money from the drug's success. We're talking about the simplest of all. Also, listen here, there's drugs. The Committee of Experts, colchicin administration to patients with coronary virus the other day. Since when did I say so? From March and April last year I said it. I said it here, in the minutes of the House, there is written. We're all confirmed. You replicate us in a lot of ways. You are copying us distortingly, however, gentlemen of the New Democracy, and that is wrong. Pharmaceutical, second element. In our country there is no question of ordering expensive monoclonal antibodies. Why? I'll tell you what. Other countries already grant it, such as Germany. It was Trump's medicine. Element third, official announcement by the German Minister for Health: Germany bought two thousand doses of the Trump medicine for the coronary. Here, you too. Not with the "embol, vaccine, vaccine"! You'll make all of us in the end! He wants the Prime Minister to entangle us with his Islamic visas, with his multiculturalism, with the Congolese, with Ethiopians, Algerians, Moroccans. It's a concept. Don't mess with us with a vaccine, though, while there's a medicine. You were baptizing sprayed those who said that the medicine exists. World Health Organization: Drugs There is. I'm not saying that. I'll testify to the Minutes. Point four, the Indian government distributes medicine, a kit of zinc and various substances. I'll submit it to the Minutes. Cost? It costs 2.6 euros. The medicine makes 2.6 euros and pays 20 euros to a company of doubtful quality medicines, to PFIZER. Chairman of the International Medical Association. What were you talking about? Lies. One element, public transport is the main transmission of the coronary. And the Greek Prime Minister came here - unfortunately has bad advisors and proved to us - and he told us that he has studies that the coronary is not stuck on buses. He had studies, the Prime Minister told me. Such advisors to rejoice! They'll burn him down too and burn the government down! Also, the World Health Organization for bus masks: 'French cancels textile masks'. All the experts, your experts, and they said the cloths were good. Suddenly they come out and say there was a mutation of the virus due to the cloth masks. That's evidence. I have another lead here. Are you sure the vaccine will save us? He spotted the Prime Minister. I've got a series of evidence from doctors, lawyers. I'll tell you what. The Prime Minister said he'd save us the vaccine. At a nursing home in Maroussi they made two doses and stuck forty coronary. And that's not all. Why is the Prime Minister wearing a mask after taking a double vaccine? Didn't he take two doses? You tell me, in Israel, despite having made too many vaccines, fifteen thousand people stuck a coronary. The same happened in the United Arab Emirates. Here too, I will present them in the Minutes for the history of the future, to know who was here actually holding a constructive opposition and who were confirmed. Wrong fourth, you say you get two million vaccines. I will tell you this: no matter how much vaccines you get, the solution is medicine, medicine, medicine, medicine! Understood. Some people's business is a good one, but the servants of the business and the pharmaceutical industries won't become Greeks! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] I won't say about the hunters and the fishermen you have wronged. But I'm going to tell you this: the paradox you stole from the hunters at last will you give it back? The paradox the hunters have paid and the fishermen will give it back? Mr. Comrade, you are honest and decent and you and the Minister. My Minister, you have taken paradoxically from the hunters to hunt - and they cannot get permission - and the fishermen to fish. You stole the paradoxes! To be honest at last, will the government give them back? You tell them to go hunt wild boar when the season is over. For laughter, that's the situation! The period is over, because it is the age of pregnancy. Give it the strangest thing, you guys! I'm saying what the president of the hunting club said. I'm not saying it. I always say what the others tell me, where the experts are. It's also coming out of the World Medical Association - I'll file it in the Minutes - and it's against the curfew at night. The World Medical Association! You check one committee here, you make an informal committee falsely and you say that you are listening to the committee. No committee can hear you! Because if you listened to the committee - you were allowed by the committee yesterday at the end - you would not do what you did with the schools, because the real committee said otherwise, and you opened the schools. So you're lying! The infectious person of the committee comes out and says: 'We did not ask for a ban on meetings'. That's what he said! And you forbid the meetings. You make a decision one week before saying that up to a hundred people are allowed and that the first inch will be arrested. Why did you do it? Don't make fun of ourselves, you did it for the pan-educational rally! I'll see you Thursday, tomorrow, whether you'll arrest or not. You're not gonna do anything. You will do this arrogantly and then Chrysochide will come out and say: 'I left them in the context of democracy'. Yes, in the context of democracy, you leave them, because they are left-wing or false left-wing or anarchists, I don't know what they are, and you fear them and you do well! But don't you fear the Church? God, aren't you afraid of him? Why don't you just leave the churches open and leave the simple gatherings? Also, how perfect your state - I wanted to say more, but all right, we're done - how perfect you made in a year and a half, two years is proven by who you put in hospital administrations, while we're ordering a coronary period, colleague. Listen, Mr. Scandalidis: The candidate Member of the Lakonia Parliamentary, commander in this hospital, regional consultant in the Peloponnese, president of New Democracy, hard party, candidate municipal councillor of the New Democracy in hospital, the Municipal Local Organisation of Gortynia, former hospital commander in Kos, put him as well. Also, a candidate MP in Samos put him in a hospital commander. One's best man, anyway, MP made him a hospital commander. For many years, a member of the New Democracy State, a member of the vote on their resignation at the Chamber of Economics, made him a hospital commander. The ONNED candidate municipal councilwoman made her a hospital commander! Candidate to local elections in Scandra, my area, they made him a hospital commander. The Technical Services Director of the Municipality of Drama, Director of hospital! The president of the trade union craftsmen - industrialists, commander in a hospital! Member of the Political Committee of the New Democracy, hospital commander. Candidate Member, cousin MEP, Member of the European Parliament, President-in-Office of the Council, NOTE President - and one for the culmination of Mrs Bakoyannis's environment - hospital managers. President of the Women's D.C. Iraklioou, hospital commander. President WILL Sitia, hospital commander! President DOSE Lassithi, hospital commander! Are you going to change Greece with these guys? That's the state you wanted? With "couples", "coopers", cousins and relatives? Are we serious? What about the others that have their degrees? Those who are going to be unemployed? Those who don't have to eat? Is that how you're gonna make a state? The worst of all, unfortunately, is not that you satisfy your voters' share. Oh, no! You satisfy your close party friends, the unemployed, unblemished, and you leave to the margin those who want to work, those who want to work meritfully. You leave the Greeks, the Greeks, the Greeks, the one who can change the country with work and work. You should not be indulging in those "small-fashioned" who provide service, because they are your party officials. Oh, no! Worship, dignity, pride! That's what the Greek deserves, that's what we'll give him! We are asking for a four-year period, and that is what we will claim in the next election, which is coming very soon! I am tabling the above-mentioned documents. [[At this point, the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u64	I, Mr President, cannot interrupt your speech. But I would like to point out that you spoke forty minutes! Ladies and gentlemen, as you can see, the Bureau can only stop the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups from making them time-consuming. That is the point I can make, but at the end. And now we will continue with the first circle of speakers with a natural presence, in particular with Mr Dionysios Cappie from New Democracy. Here you go, Mr. Akuppi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u65	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we must stress that at the moment our islands are producing approximately 25% of our country's GDP. As you know, this is mainly the result of maritime, maritime and, of course, tourism. However, despite its crucial contribution to our country's economy, the island economy is called upon to face a large number of problems relating to the specific characteristics of the island country. Thus, attributes such as the discontinuation of space, increased transport costs, disproportionately increased requirements at the level of infrastructure and equipment and, of course, the increased cost of goods make the need for a modern and comprehensive framework of island policy to strengthen the economy of our islands and ensure their sustainable development. The Government of New Democracy responds to the above need by formulating and implementing a national strategy, a single policy text, with specific development objectives of key sectors such as port policy, ports, port infrastructure, maritime infrastructure, maritime transport, island competitiveness and entrepreneurship, maritime security, employment and investment. Thus, with central pillars ensuring discreet treatment of small and very small islands, the exercise of a specific development policy on the islands, the adoption of specific programmes for sectoral policies in the island area, the safeguarding the sustainable development of our islands by taking advantage of their development prospects and the care for the economic, social and territorial cohesion of the island area, the present institutional framework is introduced. More specifically, this draft law establishes tools and financial programmes that are capable of contributing to the real financial support of our islands, to ensuring their development prospects and, of course, to further strengthening the maritime economy. Thus, under the provisions of this draft law, the NEARTHOS funding programme is established, the importance of which is significant, since it ensures the financing of public projects, particularly in the fields of port infrastructure, facilities, infrastructure and water management and transport networks, energy management projects and maritime transport. The second very important financial programme is that of island entrepreneurship. Under this programme, and always with a view to the development of island regions, financial instruments are created with resources from the national and co-financed part of the Public Investment Programme, through which funding is provided to enterprises active in the maritime economy. This financial programme concerns mainly medium-sized, small and micro-enterprises. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS VITSAS, takes over the Presidential Chair.]] In addition, the provisions of this Regulation establish the Maritime and Blue Economy Fund with a view to financing specific business projects relating to the maritime economy and blue development. Furthermore, this draft law includes provisions concerning, inter alia, the coverage of empty organic positions of the Port Authority. This is a provision that has been introduced precisely in order to fill every organic gap in the Port House, in the context of the overall effort to respond to the needs of the service. Furthermore, the provisions of this Regulation allow for the extension of the pre-implementation of support measures for seafarers by reason of the coronary pandemic in relation to the suspension of chartering contracts for the months of January and February 2021, provided that the ships to which they work are not active. These seamen shall be beneficiaries of the special purpose compensation and shall be provided with insurance and health coverage. It should be noted here that some of the measures introduced by this draft law are of particular importance because of the impact of the health crisis on our country's economy. Thus, for example, there is another possibility for island operators to support their operations. So the importance of this legislative initiative for the inhabitants of our islands, for all of us islands, is great. This is because, as islands, we need safe port infrastructure, useful energy networks, water adequacy and, of course, the guarantee of a decent maritime transport service. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law has radically changed the way in which the island country has been treated so far. It is now based on the holistic and strategic approach to the issues of islands. With this new bill, Greek society's constant demand for a single and integrated island policy is met. Thus, the state pours an active back to ensure the development of our islands and to facilitate the day-to-day life of islanders. As a Member of this government and as an islander, therefore, I am very pleased that today the Greek Parliament is discussing and voting for a draft law which will undoubtedly contribute decisively to the development of our islands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr. Cape. Mr Famelos has the floor from SYRIZA, followed by Mr Voloudakis from New Democracy. Mr. Capis was in time. I would ask you all to keep the time, because there are sixty-four speakers, and there is a roll-call vote. Mr. Famelle, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Secretary, I would like to make an introductory remark. It is particularly important that the Minister is away a long time from the Chamber and he has not listened to the previous speakers. I do not underestimate the presence of the State Secretary, but as a ship's branch leader, he has no competence in the matter of the bill or legislation. There is a political issue. And that is what I think I should be tabling, because we also need to discuss politically the bill that we have in our hands. The parliamentary representative and the rapporteur of the New Democracy hear them. What bill has the New Democracy Government finally submitted at the moment? Behind fine titles such as "sea policy", "the islands area", you are trying to hide a designed effort simply to serve interests and, indeed, to the detriment of both the public interest and the islands and the islands, to serve a few, very few, literally privileged, that destroy healthy competition, increasing the cost of services for our ports and for tourism for the inhabitants of the islands and thus for the country's competitiveness. I must say that, apart from the nice title, a photographic bill comes with many services for few, but privileged ones. And so the islanders, the workers, the businessmen of the islands are turned into non-preferential, as are the seamen, the seamen, the seamen and the ports. The problem is not only that you use beautiful titles, but that with the contents of the bill you lead to backwards both Greek politics and Greek administration, because the arrangements of the bill run counter to scientific and political development. First of all, let us make it clear that they run counter to European regularity. In the first part of the bill, which is anachronistic literally, you are trying to show us that you are forming an integrated maritime policy for the island area and you are establishing a funding strategy and tools. First of all, you simply don't have a single euro to finance it turns out that you have a 'empty shirt', you're mocking the islanders. And because I too attract my origin from the Cyclades, I say it is shameful to leave the islands without doctors, to reach the last staircase of devaluation of islandity and, at the same time, to make fun of the fact that you will put funding. You don't even have one euro in the bill. Where is the General Accounting Report on the measures which you are introducing? On the other hand, you are trying to do - just say - a "cover" of a ruse shop, so that the institutions of the islands can come out of the Minister's office, gather, as the ERA of 1960 knew, to make the local parties and settle them. It is clear that you have been returning to Greece for decades and to the democratic features of the civil society and the Rusphetological Organization of Politics. Following the criticism you received during the public consultation, you put some titles in the bill, very nice and great: "Sea Strategy", "Sea Spatial Plan", "National Plan for Energy and Climate" and, if I am not mistaken, "Sustainable Development Goals". But let's see if that's true. It is false, first of all, because the Ministry responsible for administering these policies is lacking in these responsibilities. The Ministry of Agricultural Policy, if I am not mistaken, is referring to fisheries and that is all. Where, then, is the conformity of the arrangements? Can I tell you what you've done? Because everyone criticized you on this point, you just put two words in order to fill your weakness. But you have weakened something very serious for the country. You are weakening the logic of strategic and democratic programming, the logic of sustainable development, which has been placed in the text of 'gross standards' since 2018 in the country and approved and, at the same time, all European logic - all! - even that of climate adjustment. It's not just virtual, if you want, a name of the strategy. It is that you choose - just to say - not to follow any rule, not to have any political goal, and all you care about is the Minister's personal will to make arrangements. But this is anachronistic and interdisciplinary, because spatial and environmental policies are not an obligation. You treat them as a problem and, indeed, as a title. You say, "Let me put it in the title, get out of the trouble." Because we are interested in islands, regional development, degradation and vulnerability of our islands, we will tell you what "design". Firstly, ‘design’ means starting to implement the maritime strategy and maritime spatial planning that the SYRIZA government has harmonised and you have not touched it. I mean, the Ministry of the Environment, but neither has your Ministry figured out where you are. Secondly, regional planning. Do you not know that in Greece no activity is legal, if it does not respond to the above, to what we call'spatial planning'? Why don't you finish your spatial planning? Half of us published it. Where's the progress you've made? Eighteen months and even learn your lesson. Let's go a little bit to the more specific. You are talking about the title 'National Energy and Climate Plan'. I'll tell you two parameters. Where is the carbonisation of the islands and the electrical connections foreseen within your text? Nowhere. You will now tell me 'these are fine letters'. I'll tell you something more specific. For two years the regions have been preparing plans for adaptation to climate change. They were done when SYRIZA left, I watched it personally. Where are the adjustment plans that will now provide for islands with anhydration, water shortages and drought, what are the productive conditions, what are the activities, where will tourism find resources and the rest of the operation of the islands? Nowhere. You don't know them. That's why I'm saying it's anachronistic, it's a setback of what you're doing in Greece. WWF told you that 20% of the island area, the country's sea area, is NATURA. For the NATURA regions, SYRIZA has made a list and established national interests. Vangelis Apostolos, who signed on 15 December 2017, is here - he commissioned seventeen million studies to have a presidential decree everywhere and management plans, to know the activities, in line with the natural environment. Where are these? You froze them, with the so-called 'environmental crime' of Mr Hatzidakis, Law 4685. Mr. Hatzidakis left, Mr. Economou left, who did the other "crime" with the small property, but these destructive policies have remained. What do you care? ‘Biodiversity’ and ‘price letters’. You are interested in how some of the resources of the ICP, the Public Investment Program, will enter the Minister's office. The strategy for you is "priced letters". You have no reference, for example, to the most basic text. Mr President, I shall put forward the UN document on Objective 14, the objective of sustainable development for the islands and the sea, and perhaps you can read what the global organisations say about the development issues of our country. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Socrates Famelos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Issues such as circular economy, ecosystem approach, adaptation plans that affect the life of islanders have not heard them. You don't care about that policy. Take care of some ruffles, that's what you want. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u68	Come short, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u69	You did this because, with reason like EPE, you also removed the coastal space from the marine land planning. You did it with nr.4759. Mr President, I shall conclude by referring to two strongly problematic articles. Article 25, setting up monopolistic toys on the waste of the port, follows, if you like, the abolition of 105/4504. By law of 2017, that is, we said how the sorting at source and the European obligation apply to all our ports, so that we are in agreement with Europe and there is no monopoly that "switches" all the waste, dangerous and non-recyclable and non-recyclable.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u70	Say it for the other article and finish it, Mr. Famele.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u71	You have abolished the arrangement, extended contracts for a whole year and abolished the regulator's responsibility to control any small-scale or monopolies that are on every island, finally accurateing the services and Greek tourism and shipping. The second point, Mr President, is that Article 30 must be withdrawn. Environmental organizations put it in, the whole scientific world put it in. Undoing environmental licensing for non-national defence activities is contrary to European legislation and our country will be in trouble. Please withdraw both Articles 25 and 30 and the unacceptable amendments that put shops in ports. That is what you have done by abolishing the regulator's competence! Set up shops in the ports for a few buddies! It is a shame to reach Greece in this situation! Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u72	Mr Voloudakis has the floor from New Democracy and Mr Mulkiotis follows from the Change Movement. I would ask you to leave anything for your colleagues. Keep the seven minute because I told you that they are sixty-four speakers. There are sixty-two others, that is, with the two who have spoken, and all the parliamentary representatives and the closure by the rapporteurs. I say it because I'm going sometime. Now you, if you want, can sit by tomorrow morning. Mr. Voloudakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot start with a comment on what Mr Famelos just said. Mr. Comrade, you caught a great deal of pain in SYRIZA for islands and islands, but a few weeks ago you did not vote for the abolition of ENPIA on the remote islands. When you were a government, you finally left the transport equivalent on Crete in practice. So, then, the words are good, but you should be more tempered when your practice is what I have just mentioned. Now on the bill. It is very important that our homeland will have an overall strategy for maritime policy in the island area for the first time. Greece didn't have such a strategy. It did not have a text in which the policies as a whole would be integrated. That's very positive. Of course, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we should not go to the other end, from where we had a lack of planning to go to a state of over-planning, with many overlapping plans. What do I mean? I read from the bill, in Article 3: "In order to draw up a national strategy, account shall be taken in particular of the country's national development strategy, the country's current national reform programme, the national development programme, the operational programmes of the ESDP, the needs arising from the projects already included in the Public Investment Programme, as well as the current action plan of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy." That's the plan of the state of staff. Below it says: "The National Strategy is drawn up taking into account, but not restrictively, the National Energy and Climate Strategy, the National Port Policy, the Digital Transformation Paper, the National Action Plan on Disabled Persons' Rights...". I'm quitting so I don't take time. Who's got control over all this? The ball's gone somewhere, you know, that way. There is a lack of control on the part of citizens in policies, and efficiency is also lost. We said it was wrong not to have a plan, but not to have plans on plans. Because design designs may end up with mussels. It is very right and that there are a description of the paths and instruments of funding. I note, in particular, that the main programme is the 'NEARCHOS' for infrastructure, under the name of the Cretan General of Alexander the Great. But, Minister, these instruments must be given the flesh and bones with concrete funds. You are telling us that they will be financed by the Public Investment Programme, a national and co-financed part. We know that. It's all that way they're being funded. But we need to know how much each programme is being financed, because that is something that needs to be discussed in this Chamber too. And to go to practice, because all this is a theory, I want to talk to you about some of the works of my constituency, Chania. You have, Minister, a document from the Port Fund of Chania from 14 September 2020 with a request for the approval of a series of technical bulletins for works crucial to Souda, but also for the south of the prefecture, for Sfakia, for Gadus, for Paleochora, for Agia Roumeli. I am aware that these have already been promoted in the Ministry of Development for their inclusion in the Public Investment Programme, but it is really urgent and I would ask you to speed up, to have the integration of all these projects which are very important for the development of the region, but are important and national, especially those concerning Souda and the southern side, and I will say what I mean. I am tabling this document for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Manosos - Kostantinos Voloudakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] There is a very significant upgrading of the naval station in Souda. I believe that anyone who looks at things with a national and patriotic look at it welcomes it because it enhances our country's defence capacity. However, the place that hosts these infrastructures must also have some recompense for its indebtedness. So we also need to upgrade the port of Souda, the commercial side, on the basis of the Rogan study, which already exists. Similarly, on the southern side, new geostrategic challenges also require strengthening our infrastructure in the south. The flows of illegal immigration are now coming from the South, and we may see this growing in the future, due to the growth in Africa's population, but also because slaves from Turkey choose other roads. This requires the development of the port of Sfakia, not only because it is necessary for local use, for tourism - it is the third port of Crete - but also because it must be able to serve this need in an hour's time. Now that we are preparing to extend the territorial waters to the south, and the area is larger than the port, it must be possible to have a proper base where it will be, as I said before, a factor in the development of the south side of Crete. Similarly, the port of Kissamos, in Kastelli, allows connecting to western Greece and this must definitely become part of the national strategy. I now come to an article on which I will praise you personally, Article 31, concerning the Port Authority and the Ministry's ability to support ports, port guards, who are persecuted in the courts for the performance of their duties. I mean their support, of course, economically and otherwise, as it is understood that they have operated in the framework of their regulations and regulations. It's something very important. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I'm gonna need one more minute, Mr. President. The Port House this year managed to reduce the flow of illegal entry into the country from our eastern border by 85%! This is really a feat, for which we must also congratulate the Port Authority, first of all, the men and women of the Port House, but also the Minister and the Minister's political leadership. Every year our port guards perform this heroic work, they have to deal with other problems, not just the wave of illegal immigration. They have to deal with an army from non-governmental organisations, they have to face political forces in Greece and in Europe, unfortunately, they have to face a establishment in Europe, which supports open borders policy in various ways and which devours the port Parliament and our country, very often claiming that we are in violation of international legislation, that we are pursuing an inhuman policy, etc. So when our port guards are also persecuted in court many times because they are carrying out orders because they defend the borders of our country, then the state is obliged to support them in every way. Congratulations on this article. I would point this out in particular and believe that it is one of the things that shows that Greece is determined to defend its borders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u74	Mr. Mulkiotis has the floor from the Change Movement, followed by Mr. Loading from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, if something distinguishes this government, it is her stress to prove in every way that she is carrying out a reform work. With today's bill, the government promises an integrated maritime policy in the island area, and in reality it is another legislative initiative characterised by fragmentary measures, without development aid. Both the opportunities and challenges faced by island regions have to do with their specificities. The islands have serious difficulties in transport and in fuel prices, which have been exacerbated by the economic crisis, but also by a pandemic. However, the government's measures for the islands do not result from an integrated plan or rely on an integrated assessment of the situation of the island regions. This is because there is absolutely no sense of islandity. There are no solutions, in substance, to the chronic problems faced by the islands, even though the problems have been multiplied by the financial crisis in recent years in conjunction with the pandemic. The best proof is the lack of an integrated programme for the equivalent of transport. In addition, the measures adopted by Article 16 for seafarers are delayed and completely fragmented. The amendments which, at the last minute, brought about by the Port Regulatory Authority and the sanctions for violating the rules on working time and rest periods for seafarers are really a trick. With these changes proposed by the Government, it abolishes the regulatory, control, regulatory and supervisory powers of the authority over concessions. With regard to the circumvention of these competences, I mention the following features: With the deprivation of the principle of competence by the supervision of concessions, there is a substantial change in concessions. The irresponsible deregulation of the supervisory framework, which is normally exercised by the Ministry of Shipping, that is to say, third-party supervision will now be exercised directly by the contracting party. Absolute identification of supervisor and counterparty. For example, the imposition of criminal clauses for infringement of the concession directly by the Contracting Party of the Ministry of Shipping is cancelled at any time by any court - dietary or other - of the country. It is an obvious violation of the principle of impartiality and a conflict of competence. The Greek State has fully committed itself, which has undertaken obligations under the above conventions. The abolition of the mechanism for the exercise of contractual rights deprives the Greek State of a basic instrument for effective and impartial supervision of the compliance of the concessionaires with their obligations. In particular, the repeal of Article 113a of L.4389/2016 constitutes a direct infringement of European Regulation 352/2017, as the existing system of sanctions is abolished without the introduction of new ones. The importance of imposing a fine, which is to prevent the persons subject to compliance with the regulation from sending to the authority, following its question, inaccurate, false or incomplete information, is to be abolished. The principle of proportionality is violated by unacceptable low fines. Thus, the ferry door opens for the long-term follow-up of the application of the concessionaires' obligations by the concession agreements. Ultimately, the government disguises an independent authority in order to develop the clientele and opacity. And it has been doing so this time, as it has done for months, with direct assignments, with derogating procedures, by limiting transparency. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, the government has been working on pandemic for months to optimise labour relations and serve specific interests. Redefinition of the method of calculation and the maximum fine imposed by the competent bodies of the Hellenic Coast Guard against persons - shipowner, manager, charterer, shipowner, etc. - in the event of breach of the provisions of legislation on the limits on working time and rest of seafarers, it is a symbolic proof of circumvention of basic working rights, whereas over-treatment entails risks, both for the health and safety of workers and for the safety of the ship, since the breach of working limits and the lack of legal and human rest means a physical, mental and psychological burden. What's the government doing? While so far in the case of overworking and breaching the working limit and rest limits - since, of course, there is some control - a fine of EUR 300 to 500 per seafarer was imposed, now, ladies and gentlemen, the fine is made at EUR 1 000 per day - you have heard EUR 1 000 per day! - while overworking - within introductory - is "prisoned" per person in all other enterprises in the existing institutional framework of industrial relations. In practical terms I will say: If there is a breach of working limits some day in the summer, for example, where ships go to the Aegean Sea, and on a ship there are ten workers, while under the former regime the fine would be 5,000 euros, with the new regime being only 1,000 euros. If that, now, is not the service of specific interests, tell us, really, what it is. What else can that mean by the government, for which the imposition of sanctions per worker should not be applied in accordance with labour law and other workers? And why is that? Because, as the Government itself admits in the explanatory statement, this constitutes an excessive and disproportionate sanction given the real circumstances of the ship's operation. And we say this with a language, which is not euphemism, as they say, but is a falsification and distortion of the meaning of words in order to serve the political interests, but also the economic interests of those who supported the government. Mr President, I should like to refer to the focus which is afflicted in many ways. And the repayable advance cannot be taken into account as aid. In a press release, it denounces all the procedures - I shall submit the relevant document on the Minutes - which has been done so far, while it has been backed up. But it's another "I put my back" and another extinction and extermination, where mathematically it is driven. The focus remains invisible to the government. However, with the previous arrangements I have mentioned and the imposition of fines for overworking on a day, you understand who the good of this government is. And I conclude, Mr President, by saying that the government's policy is a policy of suppressing the state and serving their political friends, a policy which we as a Change Movement finds opposing, because it has nothing to do with the necessary progressive, productive, developmental and social plan for the protection of all the citizens of the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr. Mulkiotis. The floor will now be taken by Mr. Chartomas from New Democracy and will be followed by the parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, Mr. Scandalides. Here, Mr. Loading, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in the midst of pandemic and speaking of maritime issues, the state must recognise our own seafarers as a priority category in our national vaccination policy. Of course, at this point, we should also emphasise the very important moves and actions that the Ministry has taken in this direction. Now, for this bill, I want to say: Greece needs an official and well-designed public island policy, with clear strategic objectives, with a distinct action plan, but also with concrete means of implementing it. For the first time, this bill avoids fragmentary interventions and gives their place to a holistic strategy of island policy and a'sea economy'. This draft law therefore lays down, for the first time, a central strategy for integrated maritime policy and the island area. The three-fold "Islandity, maritime economy and blue growth" is a structural element of the whole strategy for the islands, a strategy that recognises the intrinsic spatial and environmental specificities and, moreover, has many advantages for the uniqueness of multi-lateral development and the distinct identity of our islands. For the first time, the term "Blue Development" is introduced to the national legal system and is achieved, with innovative actions, the prosperity and economic development of our islands, the islands of the country. With this bill, ladies and gentlemen, we achieve three things: we support entrepreneurship, we introduce the term 'blue growth', but also the'sea economy' and, of course, we emphasise the development of the infrastructures of our islands. The permanent inhabitants of the islands are experiencing significant problems, even in their daily lives. It is therefore necessary to take care, but also to create modern and appropriate infrastructures at each level. The appropriate infrastructure also creates a sense of security for residents. Furthermore, of course, they give the mark of the state, that it is present at their side and that it takes all the necessary measures to ensure that there is equal care and care for the inhabitants of the island regions, as is the case with the inhabitants of mainland Greece. However, most importantly, incentives are being motivated. So, in this bill, what do we achieve? Firstly, we are dealing with islandity with a coherent but also specific programme, in line with European standards, with clear timetables for its implementation. In addition, three projects, the NEARTHOS programme, the Entrepreneurship Financing Programme, as well as the Maritime and Blue Economy Fund, are being established. At the same time, port infrastructure is financed, which is very important. It's the first gateway to the islands. In addition, maritime cabotage, infrastructure and management networks and energy management projects are supported. Finally, entrepreneurship is being strengthened in our islands. The new generation of entrepreneurs creates a sustainable economic, social and environmental development in the marine economy. The need to support the islands is more urgent than ever. Our islands are not just sun and sea, which make up an idyllic image of a summer tourism destination. Life on the islands is something quite different, especially in the winter months, and much more in those that are critical. And since you, in the major Precious Opposition, are cutting off for the term "insularity" but also for the islanders, we will remind you that you were the ones who dismantled the reduced rates of VAT and were you some time ago who did not even vote for the exemption from HISA and for the remote islands. A combination of actions must therefore be undertaken by many stakeholders in order to achieve a sustainable and realistic solution for the islands, with the support of the inhabitants, but also by providing incentives. So, with this draft law, solutions are being given. The political will is required, there is planning and implementation with this bill. As far as individual articles in this bill are concerned, I am pleased to see that arrangements are made for the proper functioning of the Higher Commercial Schools and AEN Syros. I also welcome the introduction of arrangements for the operations, particularly on wooden vessels, namely carnayas and tarunades. It is one of the most important historical traditions of the islands, located mainly in Syros, Paros, Folegandros and the Small Cyclades. Ladies and gentlemen, as an island Member of Parliament I represent the Cyclades Prefecture - one of our country's multidimensional and special island regions - I would like to congratulate the Minister and the Minister and the Secretary-General on this important legislative initiative. The Government of New Democracy presents an integrated island policy, which practically recognises the importance of our space and islands. This policy, I think, has been dealt with for so many years only as a geographical concept. Today, therefore, the real dimension of this should be a given and not a demand: the islands support our national economy, the islands define our borders as well. On these islands and on these islands the state today gives what they deserve. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Mr. Loading. The Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement Mr.Scandalidis has the floor for 12 minutes, followed by Mr. Apostolos by SYRIZA. Here, Mr. Scandalides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u79	Ladies and gentlemen, before I come to the subject, a report of personal need and an anniversary observation: Shefis Valyrakis left with us, an unscrupulous resistanceist, a glorious patriot, a silent democrat, one - I would call him an authentic 'passol', a quality that he has honored as few throughout his life. At a time when pandemics are changing our lives traumatically and the life of the planet, the memory of the Holocaust is pointless. Tell me, what's this got to do with it? It simply marks an universal demand that, if this world wants to survive, it must in every way and means put the protection of life on the planet, away from the war, away from the artificial death. I think it is very important that our memory runs to millions of dead and it is very important that an effort is being made throughout the world to be a wake-up to the future. Ladies and gentlemen, every law by definition is a text of a policy applied. This bill, Minister, is a declaration of ideas and objectives for the marine economy. The distance between the title - and the individual titles - and the content is chaos. I will not get tired of repeating that you are a government that you constantly claim for yourself the title of modern, rational, modern and yet every law you bring is a monument of poor legacy. This bill does not go beyond yourself. All the measures applicable are transferred and entrusted to the Minister and to the Government as well. What has so far been mediated - rather than anything - between the decisions of the executive, in order to ensure transparency and control is clearly degraded. A characteristic example of Article 25. As for local development agencies, for self-government institutions, for participatory processes in development planning and no reason is being done, they are literally outside your logic. I have no doubt that the centralised governance model is organically integrated with conservative right-wing policies in our country. It is a model that fails to meet the needs of islands. These days we are constantly discussing the development strategy. Even in this bill, the barbaric title is: "National Strategy". That's what they're saying. However, in the government's plans there is no sign of regional planning. If you become pregnant with all the proposals you have made so far, whether it relates to the Pissaridis report, to the most practical, the state budget, or to the proposal on the Recovery and Resilience Plan, there is no regional dimension in these proposals in the allocation of objectives, resources and implementation mechanisms. With institutions in the margins of developments, in terms of decisions on development choices, there can be no substantial growth in the country. If for the region of the country - for each region of the country - its development identity and visibility in the re-launching and development plan is an undeniable necessity, in island Greece has the character of survival, defence and development with the most comprehensive meaning. You want the closed community? Do you want the demographic problem and the survival of the population in particular in the small islands? Do you want the infrastructure, the presence of the social state or its absence? You want the unequal distribution of life costs? Do you want the unequal exchange in transport and communication? Do you want the need to prevent the external threat, particularly throughout the whole of the islands of the eastern border? All this, indeed, requires a national development strategy. I'm gonna make a breakthrough. In 1993, for the first time, I had gone to the Aegean Ministry and found that a large programme with a large number of resources from the EEC at that time, the development programme for the island regions of Europe, had been absorbed by Spain, France and Portugal for some overseas islands, Tenerife, etc. This program, when I went, had left little more resources. When I asked whether the Greek Government had had had had a debate to take part in this, I was told that it did not even raise the matter and we have only secured a few resources so that we can do some work. Why am I saying that? I say this not because Greece was absent, but since then a great effort has been made to define the idea of islands. So we arrived in 2001, and on our own initiative we made the condition in the Constitutional Review. But here, we must say that this constitutional check has not been the case since - and here we can also do our self-criticism - never really be the subject of government involvement. What does the content of this constitutional arrangement mean? That in every important institutional, economic, development, serious section, reform, there must be an absolute distinct chapter, specialisation for islands, i.e. specialization for specific measures relating to islands. I'm not talking about all the laws. I am talking about serious institutional laws that go down every single government. In the face of this need, which is unirreversible now, what is the political and social reality today? There were two important measures, the reduced rates of VAT and the equivalent of VAT. Neither were they actually claimed as long as we could. And in its application, the transport equivalent was weakened, incomplete and did not have the effect required of times, because it had to include goods transport and VAT issues, the government has a strange obsession with never bringing about regulation, and I imagine that today, in the context of the policy pursued by the European Union, it has the possibility of having reduced VAT rates in an area. We are not under the financial constraints that existed before the pandemic. So why doesn't he bring a law to it for the next few years, for the next and next year and, of course, to include all of Greece in the island? These are fragmentary measures. They had to be more complete. There are permanent and clear problems in the management of water resources, in the transport of goods, in environmental protection, in the promotion of cultural identity, in the presence of the social state, in unsolved problems, which are not dealt with by the designation of Community or national court programmes. Because the measures provided for in the bill, dismantling fixed policies relating to port safety, the safety of seafarers and labour rights in the name of the selective policy of the government, show a weakness in planning a policy of development in the region. Of course, the end of cynicity is the provocative and deliberate weakening of the Port Regulatory Authority. What does not intercede between your selective decisions and the market economy for control and transparency is abolished. This is a key, structural element of your policy throughout the whole area, especially today - from what we understand - and in the existing bill. Ladies and gentlemen, the island region of the country has an absolute need to draw up a national strategy in two unresolvedly linked axes, a development strategy, with a centre of gravity of total quality, which shows a comprehensive complex of culture, tourism, local production, the environment, with infrastructures for it in absolute priority, which requires and requires other institutional structure and distribution of available resources. I do not understand why, in all your development proposals, you have a distribution of resources by industry, and you do not have an elementary regional distribution, nor do I understand why a government sometimes fails to take the measure of the wealth generated in these areas as the development equivalent of the structural weaknesses that the islands have to develop in the same way that solid Greece develops. I am telling you a proposal that was very important and could solve too many problems and over time. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I'm done, Mr. President. Of course, such national critical objectives have a precondition that our islands will not be behind the events, namely the development of a new model of regional governance, with a new administrative and management philosophy, with brave decentralisation of decisions, powers and resources in the local development institutions, with a new form of codification of relations between the state and self-government, in other words democratic planning. I bring one example: the administration, for example, is the state of solid Greece, and otherwise on an island, a closed society. There the state is the municipality. We must therefore have separate policies and not everywhere. Instead of doing this, unfortunately, you are moving far from this great change that island Greece needs. I think that this is not a good omen for the coming years for our regions, for our islands, for the country in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Mr. Scandalides. Mr Apostolos has the floor from SYRIZA, followed by Mr Consolas from New Democracy. Mr. Apostle, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u81	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I agree with the views of the previous speaker, Mr Scandalides, on the content of this draft law. When I finished reading the report, I wondered - of course, I have done so on other occasions - how will this bill get flesh and bones when vagueness and ambiguity prevail in its provisions? Minister, you have made a major mistake at the beginning of your legislative initiative. You thought you would solve everything and, because you had no solutions, you finally left them in the process of authorized ministerial decisions. This not only shows weakness, but even neutralizes some of his positive provisions. I would expect your proposal for the island status of the country to be more specific, particularly as regards its potential and its comparative advantages. I would also expect you to make a reference to the initiatives he has taken on islands and our own government. Socrates Famelos told you about environmental issues. I shall refer to the primary sector that I served. We have tabled a comprehensive plan, Minister. Part of it has been implemented. The factors taken into account in shaping the project were all the factors that were motivated and at the same time a challenge to develop the primary sector in island regions, as a small, high added value, decisive synergy with other branches and an internal cohesion and equilibrium factor. What did we do to support our plan? First of all, we have allocated 37% of the resources of the 2014-2020 Rural Development Programme. I repeat: we have allocated resources along with the Leader programme of the Rural Development and Fisheries Programme. We have thus been able to serve special provisions for supporting islands in the small islands of young farmers and, in particular, in the livestock sector. We proceeded with measures - incentives for small farms in the smaller island regions, measures - incentives to strengthen the modernisation of agricultural holdings - improvement plans - measures for certification of agricultural products and the adoption of quality marks, the processing and marketing of agricultural products, the installation of young farmers. We have also reconstructed the special aid programme for the smaller Aegean islands, in order to address the particular circumstances, both in terms of agricultural production and in general in terms of supply to agricultural products. The strategy of this programme was to strengthen the transfer of raw materials from mainland Greece to the smaller islands, as well as local agricultural production and traditional exports from the islands themselves. In the same programme we incorporated the restructuring of the vineyards, the traditional cultivation of Chios mastic and the olive and olive oil sector. And I come, ladies and gentlemen, to broaden the responsibilities of the General Secretariat of the Aegean and Island Policy, to explain a few things. Indeed, it is an explicit reference to my personal homeland, Evia. He had also been discussed in the SYRIZA government. However, I would like to make it clear that it is not enough by itself, because islands are defined by European regulations, according to which, as small Aegean islands, they are defined as having a permanent population of up to 100 000. That is why Community funding under the Rural Development Programme and the European Commission's Regulations on support for agriculture in the smaller Aegean islands does not change. It will only change support for national measures not financed by the European Union. Evia and Crete are therefore still excluded from the favourable provisions for small islands, such as the increased rate of aid for private investment. There is also Regulation 229/2013, which also finances specific measures for agriculture in the smaller Aegean islands, such as the equivalent of transport to agricultural products and feed. Evia and Crete are explicitly excluded in the definitions of this regulation. So, in order to have substance and content, the enlargement of islands must all be redefined in consultation with the European Commission, either by amending the relevant regulations or by adopting new ones. I should like to close by mentioning the link between agricultural production and tourism. It must also be a priority for you, because it can not only bring about additional income for those involved in agricultural activity and vice versa, but also have a decisive impact on general local development, which is certainly a matter for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, too. Mr Consolas from New Democracy has the floor and Mr Marinos from the Communist Party of Greece follows on from the programme. Mr. Consola, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, Deputy Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Minister, I would like to express my pleasure at being strong and strong and you are with us. Be iron! Be one of you, Mr Secretary-General, well-traveled in this project by the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy, because we sincerely need an integrated island policy, which we have all seen, from all sides, in the debate and in the House and in the committees. And I must stress that in this direction, where the country needs to shield policies for the islands and islands, we agree that there must be a sustainable and holistic policy for the islands. This bill is coming today - and from this step forward I would like to express my satisfaction - to link policies from the past and to move forward with these policies for the islands, for an integrated island policy. Those who go over or downgrade the fact that there should be - and because of geopolitical circumstances - a strong island policy with a national dimension have eyesights. That is why we must say, from this step forward, that the economic and social development of the islands, the strengthening of life and the persistence of the islands on the islands, the remote Aegean islands and, more generally, the country has a national and supranational dimension. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] The island development goes beyond the political purposes and designs or redesigns limited to the political cycle of the respective government. We have heard this from both the parliamentary representatives of the parties and from colleagues of all the parties. The draft law aims to form a national maritime policy and also to create the conditions for the economic and social development of our islands. It forms three pillars of island development with the availability and use of European and national resources for the next seven years. The first pillar of development is the 'NEARCHOS' programme. In fact, Article 6 of the bill provides for the financing of public projects on our islands, projects that address the deficit in the infrastructure sector. One cannot pass over the fact that the timeless sufferings of the Greek state - we have heard from all the wings formulate it - create a problem with regard to the functionality of ports, islands lacking a modern water network, islands which have not solved the problem of adequacy in water resources and in the energy sector. This programme will alleviate the illnesses, since the resources for financing the NEARTHOS programme will come from the Deposit and Loan Fund through investment loans. The second pillar of development for the island economy is the Funding Plan for Island Entrepreneurship. It is an important pillar for island development, since it is aimed at small and micro-enterprises active in the fields of the maritime economy and tourism. I would like to remind the House that the Prime Minister in August 2019 was the first to mention the need for a sectoral programme for the island economy. It is a proposal that I, too, have submitted to the Minister responsible for the management of the NRP, Mr Tsakiris, and includes actions to develop the digital economy, modernise the accommodations of small, medium and large hotels and rooms, to change the view of the building stock of tourist accommodation on the islands, processing enterprises in the primary sector, as well as actions to highlight new forms of tourism. Third pillar is the Maritime Blue Economy Fund, with resources from the Public Investment Programme and the new ESDP, aimed at strengthening innovation and competitiveness in enterprises active in maritime and coastal areas and tourism. It is a positive step, without any doubt, which our rapporteur, Mr Gikas, pointed out in the committees, but also in his speech today. Allow me, however, to set another important priority, which is a prerequisite for holistic island development, namely the creation of a maritime spatial planning plan for the integrated management of coastal areas. This is necessary and extremely important and timely as ever before in order to serve the objectives of sustainability and sustainability in the promotion of maritime and coastal tourism. In addition, it calls for the complexity of human activities, natural systems and property issues in the coastal tourist zone, which will be very important and positive in the post-Koronian period. Ladies and gentlemen, the positive elements of this bill are data. No one can ignore them. However, we must also open up a debate on policies which govern and highlight the national and European dimension of island policy. We have heard everyone say here, in the debate, that there is a European echo and the impression at national and international level politicians and at debates is that even today European officials have not been completely convinced of the issues of integrated island policy. There is, in other words, a difficulty in understanding and especially in the characteristics of islands - if you like - in the time-consuming weakness that many of us have to emphatically put the problem of islands at European level. This is also confirmed by the requirement that the reduced VAT rates should be abolished by our partners. Greece, ladies and gentlemen, at this point, can play a leading role, as a forerunner to demand for island policy at European level, which concerns not only Greece, but also Europe. And the claim proposed by European policies is in the context of Europe's regional and political development, which does not meet the needs and specific characteristics of the island regions. The European Union must have an autonomous island policy. If Greece, the main island country, does not take the lead in this effort, who else could do so? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, in a minute I shall end and thank you very much for your understanding. We are an equal member of the European Union, and we often need the self-evident ones that are not data to claim them now all together. It is high time to take initiatives and policies related to island development, the island economy and social cohesion, such as double island support measures. I am referring to insular communication, which is a key problem for the small islands and their inhabitants, who are forced to move to the largest island to deal with matters or health issues. A substantial measure of support, ladies and gentlemen, is the free intra-Island movement of the inhabitants of these islands by sea transport. The second initiative is the special tax regime in the island regions, which is not a maximalist claim for our country. The European acquis and Article 174 of the Treaty of Lisbon and what is happening in other Europe's island regions with reduced rates is a basis for setting at European level the issue of the special VAT arrangements and special tax incentives in island regions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u84	Mr. Comrade, you have to close down.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u85	There is a far-reaching proposal from Stepma: Investment law in island regions, setting special investment and tax zones, with fiscal incentives and a stable tax framework for investment in the islands and depending on jobs and investment. Thirdly, and I conclude, Madam President, it is the necessary initiative which is the transport network, and therefore a transport network from the islands to the mainland, which must be linked to trans-European transport networks and other means of transport. In conclusion, we find once again that island policy is a supranational claim, particularly with geopolitical features that the country needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u86	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Mr Marinos from the Communist Party of Greece now has the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to try to be in your time, because there is a very large number of Members who want to speak. There will be a relative tolerance, but we will not exceed this minute under any circumstances. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Madam President. The rapporteur for the Communist Party of Greece, Mrs Diamanto Manolakos, has been documented and has made the government claims about the so-called 'integrated maritime policy for the islands' and I will raise only a few issues. Your bill, gentlemen of the government, serves the needs of major business groups and especially armaments. It violates the rights of seafarers, students at the Academy of Merchant Navy, pilots, tramples the needs of the workers on the islands. First of all, the government is suspending the contracts of seafarers and throwing them the poverty allowance of EUR 534. This is a great challenge, which meets the logistical requirements. It is a typical example of the policy of burdening the burdens of the capitalist crisis and pandemic on seafarers' backs, as was the case with other sectors. You are to be legislated on behalf of shipowners, who have accumulated huge funds over the past few years. They became strong monopolies with the exploitation of seafarers, and now they seek to be thrown away like shredded lemon worms. Secondly, we welcome the pilot strike and condemn the authoritarianism that is taking place against them. We condemn the bill that undermines this important sector and its services and burdens this great and special responsibility for those who know the masters and captains. This is a very dangerous decision, which sets out the conditions for tragic maritime accidents. It undermines - and we call it categorically and with proof - the safety of human life at sea, as many examples illustrate abroad. Your responsibilities, Mr. Undersecretary, are criminal. Thirdly, you impose the teleconferencing conference on students of the Chambers of Commerce Navy, while it is known that only by living education and upgrading can the necessary supplies be provided, the workshops can be ensured. Go ahead, gentlemen of the government, to this measure, because you want to avoid covering the chronic shortages of permanent training staff in building facilities. Refugee the measures to protect the health of students, as they claim. The JRC shall support their requests. They're on and they'll be on their side. Fourthly, what national island strategy are you talking about? The problems regarding the incomes of islands, unbearable taxation, flexible labour relations, the misery of the public health system, the sufferings of the bio-opportunities farmers and self-employed are acidified. You don't give a shit about the chronic problems of the island's transport service, especially in the winter months. The responsibilities of the PASOK, SYRIZA and the New Democracy are great and the consequences of the European Union's common maritime policy are painful. The ferry fleet at the hands of the shipowners is marked by the profit criterion, the increase in ticket prices, the millions of state subsidies. The capitalist anarchy has again led to old ships and you are preparing new funding in the name of fleet renewal. Each worker should think on this ground that the fight for safe ships, regular routes, a reduction in the price of tickets and the rights of seafarers is linked to the struggle to overthrow this situation, so that the labour power can become the people's property of ships, shipyards, ports and to develop shipping on the basis of the popular needs rather than the profits of the shipowners. In these circumstances with central planning, the islands will be regularly connected with mainland Greece and among them, the right to work and other rights will be guaranteed and the exploitation of seafarers will be abolished. Since joining the ship, Minister, since the 1970s, the competitiveness of armaments has been repeated. You gave him everything. Challenging tax exemptions and funding, constitutionally guaranteed privileges, you made the organic compositions ragged, hundreds of seafarers drowned in sapiacaravas. All governments are methodically turning the Greek register into an opportunity register, but capital is not full. It selects the flags of convenience, even cheaper labour power, 70% of the Greek shipowners are in the registers of Liberia, the Marshall Islands, Malta and Panama. The so-called'shipping miracle' was set up by the exploitation of seafarers, with the policies and governments and the backs of the employers' government trade union, the WMO's paradigm. The Greek-owned ships over a thousand tonnes of Dead Weight reached the three thousand nine hundred sixty-eight. Greek shipowners in the period 1990-2020 dropped a thousand five hundred new ships into the seas. It is at the top of the global maritime pyramid with huge tax-free property. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude soon, Madam President. Every year, they build billions of dollars' ships. In the period 2018-2020 they bought used ships worth 11 billion dollars. These are the results of the policies of the governments of the New Democracy, PASOK and SYRIZA. Thousands of seafarers were on the road, led to chronic unemployment and few received the hunger allowance. In the period 1994-2018, despite the great increase in the fleet, eighteen thousand jobs were lost in lorries, tankers, passenger ships, pensions were dramatically reduced and wages were set down, and you abolished the collective agreement of the seagoing ships to reward those who will be swamped with the hunger wages of ITF, the International Transport Federation. Your wings, masters of government, and every government, fall when seafarers strike massively and claim their rights. Then all governments retire the forces of repression. But whatever you're afraid of is gonna happen to you. The seafarers, the islanders, the pilots, the students of the Academy of Merchant Navy are right on their part and will claim it decisively. Finally, for the Minister, there are thousands of seamen trapped in the seaships and the measures you have taken to repatriate them are very little. The problem is exacerbated and we demand today and from this step forward that you take, in cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and all the competent authorities, the appropriate measures to repatriate Greek seafarers who have led to a dead end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, Mr Placiotakis, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot but also wish to hide my satisfaction as a Member of Parliament, as a minister of this government and as an islander, because, after a systematic effort, exhaustive consultation, and also a fruitful debate in the relevant parliamentary committee, I recommend today to the plenary of the Greek Parliament a draft law that changes the data in the way in which the Greek state is approaching the islands and islands. As you know, 18.7% of the total surface of our country's territory is made up of islands, with 15.1% of our total population, while the islands and economic activities developed in them, at sea and in their coastal areas, are important wealthy resources for our country. Despite this, islandity has never been dealt with in its right dimension, with comprehensive and strategic planning. That is why our islands are still having difficulties of accessibility, accessibility and minimum strategic infrastructure and benefits. The draft law we are discussing today changes the data in the way in which the Greek state is approaching islands and islands and constitutes an important part of the development of the islands. For the first time, a policy for the islands of Greece is being established. For the first time, fragmentary interventions give way to a holistic strategic approach. For the first time, the obligation for a national strategy for the island area is introduced, with clear and measurable indicators - objectives both at national and at regional level, and specific regional development policies. For the first time this strategy refers to all available resources that can be used and includes specific financial instruments to be implemented. For the first time, the Ministry of Maritime and Island Policy is activated as a coordinating role for the overall mobilisation of the State Mechanism. For the first time, let me say, 100% is entitled to the second part of the name of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy. The three-fold "sea economy - blue growth" is a structural component of our policy. The draft law is at the heart of the political perception and approach of Mr Mitsotakis and the Government of New Democracy. Greece must capitalise initiatives, proposals and programmes that were implemented in previous years lacking a strategic framework and without coordination. In the absence of the strategic framework, which we are introducing today, we have created a whole range of projects, proposals, interventions, which will now be consistent and meaningful, so that every euro that comes to our islands can catch a place and respond to the existing and important needs. It is a bill that, for the first time, the state creates the framework to assume its responsibilities towards local communities and introduces provisions to ensure the minimum that the State owes the islands and, above all, critical infrastructure in public functions, such as ports, maritime connections and clearly many other priorities. For all other things, local authorities and bodies are responsible for. It does not replace - and this is worth noting - the Ministry of Shipping no one. The State must intervene where the market fails, ensuring territorial cohesion, in terms of social and economic equilibrium. With great clarity and clarity it is reflected in the National Reform Programme and also in the Consolidated Government Policy Plan the high position of island policy and the sea in the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis. The largest deficit and element of inefficient public policies in the island area was the lack of specific or distinct programmes for the island area. The proposed draft therefore sets out three separate financial instruments, which include, first of all, the financing of public projects, the ‘NEARTOS’ programme. The NEARTHOS programme will be established through the cooperation of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy with the Treasury and Loan Fund. We have already prepared for this. We are already working on the relevant CFD and will soon be ready, so that, after the vote on the bill, we can implement this specific financial programme. The aim is also to multiply the resources available annually by the Ministry to cover critical public projects in the port infrastructure and facilities sectors. Every year we know very well that the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy manages the astronomical sum of EUR 4.5 million for public investment. The aim is therefore to cover adequate and environmentally consistent interventions, in the light of maritime safety, the adequacy of infrastructure, but also the protection of the marine environment, desalination infrastructure and water distribution networks, particularly for the small islands, remote and insular islands, the management and energy projects and - look - multiannual public property contracts, i.e. horrific lines. This is how we create the most critical link between the development chain of the islands, which has to do with adequate and secure interconnection. We are already in cooperation with both the Greek Chamber of Naval and the Greek Chamber of Shipping, as well as the NEN, we are moving towards a substantial upgrading of the network of barren lines, and we are actively strengthening the territorial cohesion of the island area. Now I shall refer to the Island Entrepreneur's Funding Programme. The Island Entrepreneurship Program will be implemented in successive cycles in collaboration with the Greek Development Bank. In this context we have commissioned a study at the University of Piraeus. Research was carried out for the first time in island companies, which indicated that operational support to the micro-enterprises of the islands is the most crucial factor in maintaining entrepreneurship on our islands, while the financial gap per company is less than EUR 100,000, so we are talking about micro-investment and operating costs in a few years' time horizon. Maritime Economy and Blue Economy Fund, this is the Portfolio Fund, which will be set up in cooperation with the Development Bank and will focus on funding existing and new enterprises that are active or wishing to turn their productive model into activities of the maritime economy. We emphasise the fields of maritime technology, maritime and/or shipbuilding equipment, development of applications and use of technology. We are creating a Greek Blue Investment Fund, according to the standards of the corresponding European Funds. Of course we don't stop here. We also provide for an annual policy assessment report on the island area. We recommend a National Register of Marine Economy Bodies, which is the quintussy of participatory design and networking by rules. The quadruple propaganda as a model of co-operation and ultimately a model of democratic planning takes flesh and bone, which was also highlighted through consultation and the Rectors' Synod made it a key part of the bill. We are setting up a special programme of institutional strengthening institutions in the maritime economy. We are creating a Single Monitoring and Documentation Platform in the fields of the national strategy. The public administration must have open and accessible data so that it can support the networking and management of complex information. I would like to thank everyone who worked on this point for the drafting of this bill, the co-legislative ministries, those who participated in the public consultation, and the district directors, mayors, the three hundred twenty-seven social partners and bodies who participated in the fourteen regional dialogues that we organised. They have all contributed decisively, so that there is a real change in the development of our islands. Already through our Ministry's NRP staff structure and taking into account the conclusions of the consultation, we prepared a special study and incorporated it in a documentary way into the negotiated version of the NRP 2021-2027 clear and comprehensive reports on the need for integrated funding under Objective 3 and 5 of the new European cohesion policy. This is the first time because of the seriousness we are dealing with. This is a draft law with dynamic implementation and consistently adapted to the European Union's critical policies and programmes and has that logical follow-up to ensure the necessary resources for our islands. On 2 February this year, our country, together with the appropriate ministers for forty two Member States from Europe, North Africa, the Middle East, members of the Intergovernmental Organisation for the Mediterranean, signed the second Ministerial Declaration on the blue economy for the next five years until 2025. It is the culmination of broad consultation between all the Member States, which lasted more than a year to reflect the main thematic priorities in the sustainable blue economy and to set out the main development objectives. Systemically, quietly, but also efficiently, our country now affects the European agenda. From uragua he becomes a shaper and I feel really proud to be able to present Greece's legislative and operational initiatives to representatives of forty two Mediterranean countries. In 2015, at the corresponding conference, Greece was absent. Apparently SYRIZA had to deal with the crisis he had created. Our decision, in accordance with the instructions of Prime Minister Mitsotakis, is to implement what is planned to start immediately after his vote, to keep the timetables, to have soon, tangible and positive results for our islands. That is why we have set binding deadlines for critical provisions, such as the drafting of the national strategy within six months of the publication of the law. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek sea area of the Aegean, Crete, the Ionian Sea in the Eastern Mediterranean is at the same time international and European. The recent validation and formalisation of the expansion of the territorial waters in the Ionian Sea in the 12 nautical miles create new data, extending the vital marine space of our country and the existence of an integrated strategy for its development management is obviously crucial. The economic, social and territorial cohesion of our maritime and insular space is a pretext for protecting our national and sovereign rights. And that should not be ignored by anyone. But let me also mention some particularly useful provisions introduced by this bill, which relate to the competitiveness of our country in the ports, shipping, maritime education, the port House and civil servants. With regard to our policy with the Navigation Agency, because much has been said in this Chamber, let me make it clear that it is and remains public in the nature of the navigable navigable navigable navigable navigable navigable navigable navigable. No discount on safety issues of navigation. Our intention is to further upgrade the Navigation Service. To this end, we have launched the recruitment of seven new navigators in 2020, and we have proceeded with the competitive process, and we will soon have a contractor for the construction and supply of seven new navigators, as well as for the replacement of engines on existing navigators. Our constant goal is to increase organic positions. I am also clear in this Chamber that no pilot is going to lose his job. The offer of Greek navigators is timeless and unambiguous and contributes to the consolidation of the security of the Greek ports. The regulation we are introducing refers to the provision of a certificate, which is, if anything, an international practice. However, I would like to make it clear that it will be granted on strict conditions. As regards maritime education, the arrangements introduced fall within the general framework of the upgrading of public maritime education. Our cooperation with the Evgenidou Foundation has laid the foundations of the reform of naval education and we will soon be able to present a framework law on maritime education for the future and its full transformation. Now, in cooperation with the Ministry of Digital Governance, we implement a comprehensive digital project program for the student monitoring system in AEN and KESEN. We are fully voting in favour of the procedure for issuing certificates of seaworthiness and we are putting an end to the images of our seafarers' long waits to receive a document. It is enough to tell you that over the last five years the respective agency has issued over seventy thousand documents. It is therefore easy to understand the administrative burden and suffering of our seafarers. Now with one click they will have the right and access to get this certificate. Ladies and gentlemen, let me also turn to another important innovation that we are introducing through the bill. I am referring to the establishment of the National Single Market Platform for the Port Community System. This is a project - flag and high added value, in the context of the digital transformation of national port policy. Transparency, speed and data security related to port services shall be promoted. In addition, for the Hellenic Coast Guard Headquarters we act in a structured and consistent manner on the possibilities offered by Law 4412/2016 for defining separate operational units, in order to provide critical decentralised services and structures with the opportunity for small-scale assignments and for absolutely necessary expenses. For example, it is now vital for the fuels of a vessel that the local port office concludes with absolute transparency contracts at local level. He had accepted that central procurement and competitive procedures produced both bureaucracy and, in most cases, failure to meet needs in critical areas. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] And I come to Article 30, on environmental licensing for VTMIS and ERNTH. This provision refers to the completion of surveillance and navigational equipment. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that SYRIZA is now coming to tell us that he is concerned, because this project will be disbursed by the European programmes. But you've already done it. They don't talk at the house of the hanged rope! And you know very well that SYRIZA never really wanted this project, and that is why he was blocking it, and that is why we had the well-known results. But I forgot, then we had the political and the logic of open borders! Already similar projects with the National Integrated Maritime Surveillance System and the National Maritime Traffic Management System, projects in the defence sector, are excluded in cooperation with the Ministry of the Environment, and we incorporate the projects of the Port Body in the same provisions. As far as the electronic charter is concerned, I think it goes without saying that digitisation is a key objective of the state and government. The ultimate objective is the full electronicisation of the intangible shipyard in connection with AIAE, the services of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy and the port administrations, as part of the State's digital transition. The civil servants of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy are, over time, a sensitive and extremely important link to its operation. As far as organic positions are concerned, the process of covering positions by privatised operators and businesses is now under way. Immediately after that, an evaluation will be carried out of the situation that has been established and, if there are gaps, the necessary steps will be taken to fill out the gaps that will have arisen. I now come to Article 25 on the renewal of port services and waste management contracts. Note what is going on here: SYRIZA with Law 4504/2007 has fragmented one of the seven port services, violating the European regulation and a legislative provision that has never been implemented. We are coming in March 2020 and we are effectively abolishing this article. The way in which the European regulation is implemented is therefore open. However, since Article 105 has been repealed and it has been observed that several bodies have not completed the procedures for selecting contractors, we are giving them a slight extension so that they have begun the procedures of the European Regulation by 31 March to complete the procedure. And be careful, the European regulation starts with the complete liberalisation of port services and can result in a contractor under specific terms and conditions. I am saying this because in this Chamber I have heard of monopolies and photographic provisions. But, before you speak, you should know exactly what the European regulation says. We are now coming to the Port Corps, the Greek Coast Guard. Since the first day of taking up my duties, the primary objective has become the practical and effective support of the men and women of the Port Authority. We have tabled and implemented a long-term and unprecedented EUR 600 million maritime programme, and for the new programme period the equipment programme will exceed EUR 800 million and it is true that after too many years we have increased the body's organic positions by a thousand five hundred people. The House has grown up over our days. With the draft legislation under discussion, under Rule 34, we are extending the strengthening of the Port House by ninety-five executives, by recruiting additional staff from the participants. So for 2021 we already cover 23% of the increase, i.e. a total of three hundred forty-three new executives enter the body. And if we take into account the rankings of the 2020 competitions, this figure is increased to five hundred forty-three executives. This, ladies and gentlemen, is practical support. We now come to a very important legislative intervention, the activation of the Port Counsel, which is fully in line with the presumption of innocence. They are overcoming the strangles that had made the institution unusable. It extends the scope of definition and takes over possible civil courts, while allowing some of the costs, which are so necessary for each official. It is effectively protected by the state that any member who is wrongly put into practice is put into practice. The government and I personally are determined to listen to and assist each port, every member who serves the country. We are determined to be next to him in his life, his service, his duty. As they warmly protect our maritime borders, the marine environment, with the same warmth, we protect and strengthen the body by modern operational means, with personal and regulations necessary to carry out their work intactly. Finally, there are important regulations to support our seafarers and also to reduce port rights payrolls. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law promotes Greek shipping, shipping, maritime education, leads our ports, port services, maritime tourism in the post-COVID era. It assists the members of our Ministry and the representatives of the Hellenic Coast Guard. Most importantly, however, the bill is a new, structured and effective way to develop our islands, a real intervention that gives meaning and content to islands, with specific instruments and funding instruments. Support for islands, but also for our islands, ladies and gentlemen, is not a matter for a government or a party. It's a national issue, it's a matter of all of us. I therefore ask you to vote in favour of this, to show our islanders that the Greek Parliament puts their prosperity and development prospects above party controversy. And I think all our islanders deserve it. Madam President, I would like to supplement it with amendments. Shall I do it now or later?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u90	You can do it now, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u91	I will now move on to the amendments. First of all, for the amendment on sanctions, this provision rationalises an unprecedented framework of administrative personal sanctions established by the SYRIZA Government for overcoming the hours of seafarers. I would like to make it quite clear first of all that we are honouring and defending the rights of seafarers. On the other hand, we cannot maintain such a system of sanctions. To make it easier to understand, I will bring you a simple example, so that we can all understand it. Imagine that, for a ship with a crew of fifty people, overcoming working hours, even for a few minutes of the hour, today involves an administrative fine of between EUR 15 000 and 25 000. If you combine this with the real picture that we all know there is in the Greek island area, with the problems of bad weather, with the delays in insulating and sailing in the various island ports, you can easily understand the rationality and lawful content of the provision we introduce into this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u92	What's he talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u93	No, that's not the problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u94	With the NAT amendment, this provision introduces the possibility of electronically making priced publications available. More than three thousand are expected to benefit, trading with ships of Greek interest, the Greek flag. As part of the cooperation with the administration of NAT, we proceed to the full digital transformation of the benefits of Greek seafarers and Greek flags. Finally, I come to the amendment on ral, where a great deal has been done. First of all, I would like to say this that we are neither affected by the independence of the Port Regulatory Authority nor, of course, by the presence of the Port Regulatory Authority. We simply take care that practical problems which have been encountered in practice because of overlapping of responsibilities are resolved, because that is what the proper administration and the functionality of each port require. The reality is that because of duplication of powers, there has been huge confusion among the stakeholders. That is why we are moving towards the redefinition of the responsibilities of the Port Regulatory Authority. It shall not be understood to have powers extended until checks on dwellings, persons, undertakings and only the Competition Committee has competence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u95	The SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, Mr Santorinios, has the floor now. Mr. Santorinier, will you say your speech?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u96	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u97	Ladies and gentlemen, as I have said before, there is a very large number of colleagues and a rough calculation, it is not for the roll-call vote procedure to begin before eleven o'clock at night. So I would suggest that we reduce the speaking time a little bit and stick to it. Do you agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u98	No, Madam President. We don't agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u99	You can't agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u100	Let's go on second day.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u101	We cannot do this, Mr Colleague, and you know that very well. I'm asking you again whatever decision you make. I'm just going to be too strict in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u102	We don't agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u103	Then we'll go to seven minutes. Seven and one minute you'll stop talking. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u104	Thank you very much, Madam President, and I apologise to my fellow Members for the upset, but I think some of what the Minister said should be answered. And not to use monolets, we're going to the normal speech. Madam President, Minister, Minister, welcome to the Ministry of Shipping's family. Those who've been through there don't forget it. Ladies and gentlemen, I hear the Minister say that there were fragmentary actions on island. In the committees he told us that he took "white paper", that there was no support for the islands. In fact, I was listening to the rapporteur from the New Democracy saying that there would also be funding for the inexpensive islands. Hey, let you know that there are no forests anymore! There are no aqueducts in the Aegean, because some have made island policy in this place, some have kicked out the water supply. In Kimolo, Mr. Colleague, in Amorgos, in Mazraki, Mr. Gika. For some people have actually brought island policies and areas into island policy, which you have not voted on, such as the equivalent of transport, and you are now degrading it. Because I heard you were going to do business - it says business. Does the transport equivalent give businesses and specific firms operationally? In a specific way. But you didn't pay them in 2019, you paid in 2020. So let's go to the 'integrated maritime policy and aid to the island area'. Obviously, it is a very good title and no one could disagree with such a bill. But is this bill, which we have in our hands, a draft strategic planning bill? What is it? They're guidelines for a design. A strategic planning? We'll see then. What the bill contains is wishfulness, general ideas, financial instruments, without a budget, without a specific financial framework. The reality, however, is that the islands do not need wishes. They need policies that give immediate solutions, because the problems are immediately. Politics are needed, such as the institutional intersection of the transport equivalent, policies to solve the problems of the islands. You know, without bringing a law, we did the Special Development South and Northern Aegean, where a hundred projects were financed with 100 million, using "PHILDIMO". Without bringing law, we did the study preparation programme of port management bodies with 25 million from the "Philodimos". Mr Placiotakis, I know that you brought him back to 4.5 million, but we had him at 12 million the budget for the port infrastructure. Is it too much? Oh, no. But we raised him, and you're bringing him back to 4.5 million again. We made use of the money left over from the transport of water, the Greek State provided 5 million a year to support infrastructure in the small islands. So what is it you're bringing us? The Minister told us in committee that "it is a national project on islands, which will contribute to the planning of the next programming period for an integrated island policy". The national strategic texts contributing to the planning of the next programming period are described in the second round of the planning of the 2021-2027 programmes of the Ministry of Development, and in particular Annex 4 and 5 thereof. I've looked into it many times. There is no national strategic planning for the islands. What are you talking about? What are you talking about? I'll submit it to the Minutes. Because we told you by the committees. It does not contribute to the development strategy of the country. It takes into account the other strategies, which are the National Strategic Development, the National Development Plan, the operational plans, but does not affect them. The relationship between these projects and the national strategy, as you baptize it, for islandity, between it and the other projects, is not a dialect. They are not mentioned by the Ministries with which there will be co-responsibility. Only the Ministry of Rural Development is mentioned. You are not taking into account the seventeen objectives of sustainable development of the UN. It is subject to designs and it simply specializes them. So what is it? Once again, by reading the second circular for the preparation of the 2021-2027 plan, among others includes financing integrated spatial investment projects. Is that a new prediction? It is here that the Secretary-General, who was also a Regional Director and made a plan for integrated spatial aid for the islands of the northern Aegean. Was there the frame? There was the frame. Here we are talking in a little more about this programming framework. There it is, though, here it is. And for 2014-2020 here it is. It's reported. So what are you doing? Make a plan for integrated spatial investment and baptize a national strategic plan. Hey, that's enough! It is not the government's role to formulate integrated spatial investment plans. The government's role is to produce policies. And you don't produce policies with what you brought us. You are simply setting up a client service office of mayors and entrepreneurs. And we're going to the new financial programme. So you told us that you would multiply the 4.5 million, make it twenty-five times, make it 90 million, 100 million. Where? You're not telling us where. You're not telling us the budget. You're not telling us anything. It is unclear and generalist. What will be the managing authority to manage this programme? I told you before, without law, we gave a hundred million to a hundred works through the "PHILDIMO". Let's talk positive. Multiannual contracts are something that is important. They will, however, be financed from the Treasury and Loan Fund, Minister, or from the Public Investment Programme, which you have rightly done and carried it over to the Public Investment Programme. And because you tell us that various projects will be financed by the Public Investment Programme and I told you that it is not even enough for the barren lines, you said that "we will receive funding in the future". The state budget of 2021 therefore provides for 75 million for barren lines, not 135 million. You said it never happened. In the State Budget of 2019, the entire budget for barren lines was registered. When will you get the extra money? When you won't be able to fund the barren lines. And I hear there's a involvement in this funding. Now we're going for business. There is still a clear reference to resources and other programmes, without any additional resources. Sea and Blue Economy Fund. A ringer you're making, Minister. You could use the regional programs or the ENANEC. Now, don't tell us you're doing something great. For Articles 9 and 10, which you create the Blue Economy Bodies Register, it's a record that everyone and anyone fits. And why does everyone fit in? Because the best friends fit. They're breaking up whoever you want. Make a "collector service desks" with these procedures. Now we're going to Article 22. You told us in Article 22 that no pilot would be fired. But is that the problem? Honestly, is that the problem? The pilots, that is, who today are on strike, are on strike to prevent them from being fired or because, with this amendment that you are serving small shipowners' interests, this amendment that you are making safety problems in the ports, this amendment that you are making, and why are you serving what COSCO has always wanted, to do private navigating service? This is how you degrade the Navigation Service, reduce the revenues of the Navigation Service and, with the well-known method of degradation, bring the Navigation Service to a point where you say what to do, privatise it. We told you before that any accident taking place in a port, without a pilot, will bear your signature. Now for Article 30. In Article 30, Mr Minister, it is now obvious that the work of the ESTEF has been lost. So you told us that we were the ones who followed a 'high sea policy'. Every one of the ships, from the ships that are inaugurated today, is by means of notices of our own. Each one! If we hadn't done the competitions today, you wouldn't have anything to show at all! And I asked you in a timely question about ESTPH: 'What about the 60 million that you lost?' And you said to me: 'They will become supplies of the Port House.' Where is he? I asked you to do so to the committees. Bring me 60 million supplies from European programmes for the Port House. We're waiting to see them. And now you're losing VTMIS. You are also making the big strategic mistake of exempting them from environmental authorisations, leading them to the complete weakness of funding from European programmes, because no European programme will finance a project that does not have environmental authorisations. And even worse, you're making the other mistake. We told you to delete it from the explanatory statement and you made the mistake of saying it today. They're national defense works. Do you know, Minister, that projects of national defence are not financed by the European Union? You know that? They are not going to be financed. The way you do it, we lose funding. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You will allow me, Madam President, to take time from my dentistry as well. You bring in and incorporate two amendments, which one really would like to say in some way,'my child, to vote on the bill, because it is about maritime policy, about integrated policy, it is not exactly what it does, but something about island policy, to vote on it', because it is not possible to do so! Literally devoured! You say that you are protecting employment rights, competition and shipping. Did you ask the shipowners? Do you know who you're bringing them for? For one! For one you are bringing this amendment, which systematically violates the working hours of seafarers. You said: 'If it spends a few minutes...'. What "some minutes", Minister? From 9 o'clock we've reached it tolerant by 18 o'clock and programs by 11 o'clock. Are we serious now? The rest of the shipowners, only they saw this amendment, have freaked out. You serve specific interests and I wonder how you do not bring retrospective power to escape the fines that have been ‘eaten’ by some. You are destroying the ILO and IMO directives, the International Maritime Organisation. We shall now go to the amendment on ral, which you have unleashed. Minister, the fact that the New Democracy has been handed over to private interests is something we know. We also know that the government has surrendered to private interests. The fact that you will hand over the ports to the private interests unconditionally, we cannot accept that! It is a full concession to the waste monopolies. It is a complete tradition of the ports at the Piraeus Port Authority and at the Thessaloniki Port Authority. You're removing ral. You are turning it from an independent authority into an advisory body. You are insulting the institutions of democracy. You are insulting the institutions of control that this democracy and the Greek state has. You are hitting the credibility of the Greek state. And why are you doing this now? Because RAL was ready to check monopolies of Regulation 352/2017 on waste. Last year you told us: "Don't worry, since we have ral. RAL will apply the Regulation.’ You're removing it now. Why are you abolishing it? Really, why are you retiring her? Today the PPA would be apologising and bringing the amendment. And you are also abolishing Article 113a, which is the framework of sanctions. And the European Commission is coming today and says that you are violating Articles 16, 17 and 19 of 352. I shall submit the relevant document on the Minutes. These fines will bear your name and one of you will have voted for them. These fines that will come to Greece will have been voted upon by one - one person personally. And another thing: the summer supplements the five-year PPA, which the PPA had the right to make certain investments. He's done nothing. With the legislation you are bringing, RAL ceases to assess whether the investments have been made. Who's gonna check? Is that possible? Today, therefore, the amendment you are bringing is very specific. You bring her to serve certain interests. And don't tell us that the Minister will impose fines, because the Minister is a contracting party and any fine and impose on any arbitrator and go, this fine will fall, and you know it very well. That is why you are bringing this amendment. You are also telling us that it does not mean an independent authority to have the opportunity to invite a prosecutor to carry out an audit. Really? And who's to do a check? Will you go, Minister, with the prosecutor to check out? But are these things we hear in here? Are they things? That is why we have tabled a request for a roll-call vote, for each of you to take responsibility for all these infringements in environmental legislation, for the fact that you are violating labour and European labour legislation, for the fact that you are violating Union legislation, for both the management of waste and for the fact that you are handing over ports to individuals. Take responsibility and vote for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u105	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. The Minister now has the floor for two minutes to announce legislative improvements. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u106	I wanted to table some legislative improvements, which incorporate some of the comments made by colleagues who tabled specific proposals to the committee responsible. Among other things, there is also Mr Gikas for inclusion in the NEARCHOS programme of technical consultancy services for studies on the development of port projects. Another legislative improvement clarifies the regime for the award of multi-annual contracts for barley lines in Article 6. I also believe that it is the representative of KINAL - in the scope of the integrated maritime policy and the Elafonissos. There are legislative improvements in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance in order to implement effectively the provisions on FRONTEX under Article 33 and the financing, as committed to the committee responsible, of the TSE's Private Navy Technicians. Madam President, I would like you to give me two minutes because Mr Santorinios raised a serious issue about the letter from the European Union. I have translated it into Greek, and I would like my fellow Members to hear it, so that everyone can draw their conclusions. ‘We’, says the Commission, ‘that the proposed amendment could, inter alia, have resulted in the abolition of RAL competences in relation to Regulation 352/2017, without them being exercised by another public authority’. I repeat ‘without them being exercised by another public authority’. ‘If this explicit abolition of powers, as described in your letter, the Hellenic Republic will be in breach of Articles 16, 17 and 19 of Regulation No 352/2017.’. So what's he saying? It says ‘if that competence, as described in your letter, is not exercised by another public authority...’. But it is exercised by another public authority and this is the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Once again you tried to mislead the Greek Parliament. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] "The Commission therefore concludes, "will be in contact with the Greek authorities for explanations if required and we will consider whether to open infringement investigation procedures from the Hellenic Republic." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, too, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u108	Madam President, may I?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u109	Mr. Santorinier, just for a minute, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u110	Minister, you brought in the amendment of the law last March and abolished Article 105. I am passing through, and the specifications from the RAL were ready - and you know that - and you have abolished it. And now, again, the implementing regulation was ready, but you delayed six months to publish it in the FEK, with your own contributions. So you told us that there is no need for national legislation. The State will retreat from its ability to have national legislation, because RAL will implement the regulation. That's what you told us last year. This year you're telling us ral won't do it, but the Ministry. Hey, decide, finally, who's gonna do it! RAL or the Ministry? When were you right last year or this year? Because, if the Ministry really has to do this, you have to reinstate Article 105, which we had voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u111	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Mr Kavadas has the floor from New Democracy. Mr. Comrade, strictly seven minutes, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Secretary, I would like by the way to wish you success in your duties and good power! Ladies and gentlemen, Greece is Europe's most island country. The existence of an integrated maritime policy with an institutional framework that attracts investment and contributes to the development of economic activity, life and creation on the islands should be self-evident. But it wasn't. This draft law creates for the first time an essential development framework for our islands, a result of specific planning and targeted policy. I understand the difficult position of the party of Officerial Response with the contents of this bill. After all, SYRIZA as a government proved that even in the field of island policy he had no plan. It has shown that it does not understand the peculiarities and difficulties of islands. It is characteristic that he refused and effectively annulled the island character of Lefkada and Evia, except for Law 4597/2019, which extended the powers of the Secretariat-General for Island Policy to all other islands. In Lefkada, you see, we have a floating bridge, which, in the opinion of the government SYRIZA was enough to consider Lefkada as not an island. So the Ministry of Shipping told me about the SYRIZA government in response to my question in March 2019 on the matter and I will table it in the Minutes, so that there are written texts of the ignorance that the previous government had about the concept of islandity. At that time, the local SYRIZA in Lefkada said that Greece cannot present a policy aid programme for Lefkada to the European Union, because it will only be a reminder. They were invoking definitions of EUROSTAT, of the European Union, of universities, in a rabies attempt to prove that an island is not an island and, of course, concealing other sources that say otherwise. I will also submit this document in the Minutes. They insisted that Lefkada will develop, such as the rest of Greek territory, as if Lefkada at the western end of the country, with ports, marinas, a marine economy and specialized in marine space operations can be developed under the same programme as prefectures that have urban, rural or mountainous characteristics. It has not - they said - Lefkada the problems of the small remote and border islands. For all this, I had fought in early 2019 with questions in the House, with speeches, announcements, with the Ministers at the time. I was wondering, then, whether Lefkada belonged to another state, whether it was not in the Istanbul or not it was an island. But I didn't get a reply. It was not understood or accepted by SYRIZA government that Lefkada as a island has all those problems and features that arise from islands and that it needs special strategy and funding, such as the other islands. Today the Government of the New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis restores this great injustice. And I have to thank the Minister for his personal and publicity, Mr Yiannis Placiotakis, but also all his colleagues, because in the many reports I had made to him on this subject in his office and in the question that I tabled in March 2020 he responded in practice and positively. Not only does it integrate Lefkada with Article 42 in the responsibilities of the Secretariat-General for Island Policy, in order to benefit from its financial programmes, but it also makes special reference to my island in Article 3 for the scope of the national maritime policy strategy, clarifying that it also concerns Lefkada. This national strategy, ladies and gentlemen, is an institutional intervention of major importance, which creates new development, financial and institutional instruments. For the first time, all available resources are used productively and targetedly, with the creation of three new financial instruments. The NEARTOS programme focuses on the financing of projects linked to port infrastructure, water networks on the islands, energy infrastructure and maritime transport, i.e. infrastructure that improve the daily lives of the citizen. The second financial instrument aims to strengthen island entrepreneurship. The resources available from the NSRF and the Public Investment Programme will be used to enhance the competitiveness and sustainability of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in the island regions. The implementation of this programme will be carried out by the Greek Development Bank. The third financial instrument aims to create a new development model for island regions, based on blue development. It is the Maritime-Blue Economy Fund with European and national resources aimed at promoting innovation and new technologies in island and maritime entrepreneurship. It concerns all sectors of maritime activities and also coastal activities related to tourism. Ladies and gentlemen, nature has blessed our country with the beauty and uniqueness of hundreds of small and large islands. This beauty and wealth of each island is a blessing for our land. But it is also a great responsibility for the state. The plan for a modernly targeted strategy for the development of the island is inspired by insight and shows that this government and Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis have a deep perception of what life means on the island. For the first time, an integrated maritime policy is being established in the island area through the national strategy, taking into account and serving the tripartite "insularity, maritime economy and blue growth". In combination with the other provisions of the draft law on international shipping, the training of our seafarers, the ports, the ports and our Coast Guard, which in recent years have given the best of their lives for the safety of our seas, we have in our hands a bill that will leave an indelible print in the lives of all the islanders, giving a solution to the problems, but also substantial opportunities for development, promotion and prosperity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u113	I thank you, Mr Colleague, for being consistent in your time. Mr. SYRIZA has the floor. Here you are, Mr. Symblene, have the floor for seven minutes too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I wish to wish the Minister for Iron and Health and I would like to say to him at the outset that he said: 'For the first time, a maritime policy and a national strategy for insularity is being established' more than thirty times. In fact, if we weren't islanders, we might have believed you. In any case, as far as the first chapter is concerned. In the first chapter you say that the Ministry of Shipping ensures - it supervises, together with the other public bodies - local government and so forth - for island policies. But just in Article 2, where there are definitions of maritime strategy and islandity, the only definition that does not exist is what "insularity" means - take note of this, see it! - under the 2001 Constitution, paragraph 2, which for the first time established the concept of insularity. Of course, you are including all the islands and Evia and Lefkada and it is positive. However, there have also been some objections and Mr Apostle told you exactly how Evia or Crete will not be able to obtain those financial programmes, because that is contrary to some European regulations. In the matter of maritime cabotage, you say in Article 4 that there is the axis of maritime cabotage. There you forget to talk about combined transport, since transport is not just maritime transport, it is also air transport. There are also seaplane transport, to which you and we have invested so much, when this hydroplane story had begun. In Articles 4 and 5, you are talking about the Island Policy Council and it seems to me that you are referring to the Island Policy Council under Article 33 of Law 4150/2013. And of course you did well to give an opinion in the evaluation report, both to the Ministry and to Parliament. However, this composition of the board has now changed and has become almost a governmental body. What composition of the Island Policy Council do you prefer or do you regret, or did you regret, that you have not regret - that the Island Policy Council has turned into almost a government body? In Article 6, further on the Newarkhos financial instruments, and so on, other speakers have said so, there is no budget. We do not know whether these financial programmes will bring additional resources. All that may be done is that the resources and funds relating to maritime policy and insularity are contained in these programmes. However, resources are actually the Public Investment Programme, the NSRFs etc. You also say that the Island Entrepreneurship Fund will be financed by the Development Bank and micro-credits. But the Development Bank - and this - and the micro-credits - which were our work and that, which you updated after a few months when you came to the government - is not just about islands. The financing from the Development Bank concerns the whole of the country's entrepreneurship. So it's nothing special you're talking about. As far as this island is concerned, you and all your speakers will repeat 'for the first time', 'for the first time', with drum impacts. Ladies and gentlemen, what have you just been doing? What was your first act? You abolished the Greek island policy portfolio. You have interrupted the island policies that we have initiated under Article 101 of the Constitution. The most flagrant reform, the introduction of the transport equivalent, you have actually fought it as an opposition and you fought it, while when you came to the government you are gradually trying to degrade it, to pass on to oblivion. For what the SYRIZA Government has done, such as, for example, the "Philodimos" or the equivalent of transport, by silence, you are trying to forget the very positive effect that these programmes had on people. So you are pouring out the positive work of the SYRIZA government, which has been extended to the islands in a number of areas, and I will tell you very briefly that for the first time, it was made - a request for decades - the base for aerospace in Syros. The Hospital of Santorini was founded. There was the Special Aegean Development Programme, as other colleagues have said, which essentially constituted a second ESDP. We were the third European country that submitted an evaluation report in 2018. Entities of protected areas for the environment were created in the Cyclades and Dodecanese, which you abolished. In the primary sector, a specialized policy was set up in the crafts sector, with a range of local products available at the border regions. A series of sports works were included on many islands. Ports and port facilities which have been considered illegal have been legalised for many years. And there are more, not more, than the number, of the various ministries, but I do not have the time to talk about them now. And worst of all, you refused to vote on the special provision on islands in the Constitution under review, which we started and in the first vote received... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u115	Mr. Comrade, you have to close down.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u116	Let me finish my sentence, though. I know, I heard you, I saw the bell. Don't do this to me every time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u117	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u118	In any case, leave everyone else and the Members are the last wheels of the wagon in here. But that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u119	Listen, please, Mr. Comrade, with all due respect. I told you earlier that there is a very large number of colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u120	I know.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u121	If every Member who goes up to the Step is being abused in time, you understand that some colleagues...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u122	Listen, that's how it's done.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u123	Let me finish. I don't want to fight.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u124	We're not fighting right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u125	I don't want to fight. Easy, I'm talking to you. You understand, I say, that some colleagues will not speak at all or speak for five minutes. It is therefore in your mood to give your colleagues time to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u126	Everyone talks every time. Don't say things now and don't eat our time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u127	I would ask you to keep the time as the Rules say.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u128	Okay, Madam President. Every time that's what you do to me. In all my speeches for two years, whenever you've been president, you've been interrupting me lately while I want to finish. Well, that thing can't be done, that is, mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u129	Mr. Colleague, I've never interrupted your time. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u130	I'd be done so long.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u131	Please. I interrupt when you go ten and nine minutes. Please go on, get on with it, and we're done, so we can go to our next colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u132	The New Democracy did not adopt the Constitution under review, which puts the joint legislator and administration, when acting regulatoryly, obliged to take into account the particular circumstances of the islands and mountainous areas, while ensuring that they are fully integrated into social and economic development. This was the fifth to pass through all the bills and all over island policies. You didn't vote for it. In any case, I close by the fact that you are basically serving the tripartite 'private service, downgrading public interest and public policy, degrading environmental protection'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u133	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Brutsi, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, Madam President. Let me start with two remarks that I think it is important for them to be heard at the National Representation. First, today is a day of memory and reflection for thousands of Greek Jews, witnesses, innocent people, heroes who fell into the holocaust of the Nazis. Let today be a day of honor and remembrance to those who have lost their lives in the Nazi concentration camps. Democracy and memory are a guarantee and a compass for the future, so that there will never be similar crimes before us in the future. The second point, which concerns us all, as a political system, is the extermination of Mr Tsipras to the two journalists, Mr Giannis Kourtakis and Mr George Papachristos, trying to restore, it is assumed, the lost honour for a critical issue. I am one of those who believe, ladies and gentlemen, that the political system must defend its honour. It must defend the reputation of each of us separately. However, such extermination proceedings can be inviolably concluded that they lead to intimidation and the absence of any criticism. That's what we're opposed to. Criticism has to be done. We should all be appraised. Parliament and we politicians are here to judge us both journalism and the world and the 'wei and alas' if with such conduct as the President of SYRIZA, we are now leading to a new environment in which criticism of the political system is forbidden. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill for me personally and in my capacity as Parliamentary Representative has another specific burden, since as a Member of the islands, Cycladic and Aegean Islands, I have the honour of being in the national delegation for a bill - a section, as I will explain below. It is a bill that will come to make a significant contribution to the evolution of things for the island side of our country. It is a bill that comes to give direction and to form a single strategic framework and environment in an existing legislative framework fragmented, imperfect, full of vague and ambiguity. This is precisely the intervention of Giannis Pakisotakis, the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, who is now coming to unify this entire fragmented system and with specific tools to legislate within which we are going to pursue an island policy. This is the intervention of the Government, the Minister for Maritime Affairs. The question arises is whether this debate on our island policy is new. I have been in this Chamber for several years, and I answer: No. It is a debate that is taking place over time. Today we are discussing a rugged bill. But we will continue to discuss island policy, because the debate on our country's island policy is not a case-by-case debate, which concerns a particular region of the country with specific problems. Here we are discussing - and here is the interest - in a region of our country, the island - we are the most island country in the whole of Europe - which concerns two hundred inhabited islands, 15% of GDP, a million seven hundred thousands of our fellow islands. We have the debt and the honour as a political system to defend this world and give it a better perspective, a sustainable perspective at home. There's an issue coming up, though. Today, listening to SYRIZA, who with a universal 'no' of all his executives denies this bill, I wonder: Is he satisfied with the present situation? Gentlemen of SYRIZA, have we solved all the problems today? The challenges, the problems faced by islanders have been solved? And we are talking about challenges arising from territorial discontinuity, problems with infrastructure, health problems, problems with ports, problems with all our islands, problems with coastal shipping, air connections, spatial planning. You said it yourself. Have they been solved, have they responded? Of course not. So you're coming to deny a bill that actually puts on track a central design to deal with these problems. And you do it in a way of agarbo. I have heard the rapporteur but, in particular, the Parliamentary Representative of SYRIZA, in an exercise of the revolutionary logic of SYRIZA from 2012-2014, demonize anything private, denounce everything that has been created today and return to the well-known SYRIZA of that period. But, I remember features, gentlemen of SYRIZA, that you were on the eve of the 2015 elections, shouting and denounced the existing private shipping and announced and committed that the next day you would bring state shipping. And what did you do? You have maintained the existing framework, which, fortunately, is very good, with airships. I do not want to refer now to a particular company, but I, by experienceing islands for many years, have seen the development of our shipping, the private initiative to advance, today, the islanders enjoy the best services at European level with the valuable ships of our private initiative. You complained that we are mortgaged the ports to the private sector and you the next day transferred the country's public property to the superstate for ninety years. And you come here hypocritically to criticize us for the ports? Let's just remember what you did and what you promised. In any case, because zero-fixing policy is not in my character, I can say that there have also been some stepping-in in island policy. Mr Syros said about both the helipad of Syros and for one, two, three speeches. No one can argue. We come functionally to add one another. But tell me, gentlemen of SYRIZA, Article 101 of the Constitution in which you were just criticised - and you are trying to put oblivion in the past - and with which the island status of the Constitution first enters, is not a product in this Chamber in 2008 of the Government of New Democracy, which put island policy into the Constitution of our country? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The VAT Administrator Constantine Karamanlis - the representative of KINAL tried either ignorantly or deliberately to cancel the story - when he put our country in the EEC at the time, did not put it as a dominant issue in the negotiation, the only comparative advantage that our country received, the reduced VAT for the Aegean Islands, which SYRIZA abolished it? Aren't these policies in favour of islands, Mr. Santorinier? Is the abolition of HPAI for the remote islands, which this government brought up a few months ago, and SYRIZA did not vote for it, is it an island policy? The issue concerning barren lines, the increase in the budget from EUR 90 million in 2019 to EUR 130 million in 2020 and this EUR 138 million in this budget is not an island policy?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u135	Where is he? Which budget? Read it!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u136	As far as energy is concerned, you reported in 2014 the government of Samaras on the continental interconnection with the cable of the islands of the Cyclades, which will continue to reach and reach Crete and have connected Naxos, Paros, which is progressing for Santorini, Ios, Tinos, Andros, Mykonos. Isn't that an island policy? Of course it is. You continued it, but you denounced it in 2014.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u137	Wrong! It's a big mistake.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u138	In any case, ladies and gentlemen, issues relating to islands are not a simple formal process. They go beyond what we describe as typical problems for the islands for sustainability, sustainable development, which is our duty to support. They are national issues, and that is why the debt of the state, of each government, comes to support in every way through sustainable development the sustainability of the islands' inhabitants in the Aegean Sea. It's a debt of honor for everyone to do it. We as government have shown that from what Giannis Plakkatakis said before, the expansion of the gyalitis zone in the Ionian Sea - it also concerns islands - until the Rafale market for the defence of the Aegean Sea and our islands. And this government of Mr. Mitsotakis did it. As far as the issues involved in this bill are concerned, I have heard Mr Symmarelene before and Mr Santorini trying to convince him that it is a confiscated bill, which has no value and we should not vote on it. On the contrary. Perhaps you did not read it or perhaps party patriotism does not allow you to see things the way they are, because the National Register of Marine Economy Entities on the one hand, which sets a new framework, and the Single Monitoring and Documentation Platform and the National Single Port Community Platform and the "NEARTOS" programme and the funding of island entrepreneurship - another platform - and the Maritime and Blue Economy Fund are real areas that come to restore the framework of the requested island policy, a fragmented island policy. Today, the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy of our country, this government comes and rationalises this framework and now sets a concrete direction and a compass of how to conduct island policy. That's what we do with this bill, and you should support it. In the end, too, if you still had disagreements, you should put forward proposals. I have not heard any proposal from you and, not to blame you, from KINAL. I have only heard a denounced statement of views, a great 'no' to everything. This is not the case, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. We need to move forward with proposals, with positions and today with this bill - the Department of Shipping, for which congratulations are due both to the Minister and the Secretary-General and to the Secretary-General and to all the officials of the Ministry, we are coming to open new roads for the island region of our country. I would also like to pay tribute to the Port House in our country, to all rates, Minister, because what they have done, the 80 - 85% deterrence of immigrants, was a very great, brave result of the determination of the Port House and is worth a lot of congratulations! And because from the Cyclades, but also from all the islands, we have recently accepted the question of what will happen with the vaccines, the Government - I quote - has created a programme for the islands only. I would therefore like to say that this programme, in order to be well-known and broader, because I have heard it from members of the SYRIZA, too, to raise it as a question. It is an integrated program for each island separately in our country. This is our programme for the island of Greece. Congratulations, Minister. We are here to open roads and ensure a better future for the islanders of our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u140	Madam President, I would like to speak for one minute on what he said about the President of our parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u141	You have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u142	As for what you have said, Mr Voutsi, we will also speak in dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u143	You'll have the time after.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u144	I represent the Group of the European People's Party, Mr Pappas. Your reference to the lawsuit made by Mr Tsipras to two journalists - whom he gave the right to revise, in slander, in fast news and who not only did it but continued to slander on the same subject - suggests that you are no longer defending journalism, but you are defending slander, make news and yellowism. Because it was not on our own government that the directors of newspapers and editors resigned, denounced - by friendly means - pressure from the Maximos Mansion. And because you said that you were going to pay for exterior fines when you were being tried and you were sure that those fines would be dealt with and you would have to pay for them, they would not go to anyone's fund, except to the journalists' fund for the pensions of journalists, who you, as former Minister, know has a number of issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u145	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u146	Madam President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u147	Come on, Mr. Brutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u148	Mr Santorini, I would advise you on what the popular saying says: 'The house of the hanged man is not talking about rope'. When you talk about journalism and free journalism, do not forget that you now have a past. Four and a half years SYRIZA proved in practice who he is and how he perceives free journalism.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u149	That's exactly what we did.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u150	Do you forget about the intervention you tried to do to control the press? Do you forget what you did to check the channels? Fortunately all these methods did not work. They were judged unconstitutional, and the strong reaction and resistance of the New Democracy, this party, especially, has fortunately brought free journalism and canals freely to work today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u151	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u152	Madam President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u153	No, Mr. Santorinier. We will not have a debate between parliamentarians. You said what you wanted, said Mr. Brutsi. Let's go to Mr. Boomba from the Greek Solution. You've got a strict seven minutes, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u154	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a day of historical genuine memory of the infamous crimes committed by the nazis. If anyone sees what David's star means, he's gonna understand about this shameful and hideous event in world history. It is an opportunity to find real allies, like the alliance with Israel, which protects our interests in the Eastern Mediterranean. After all, there are philanthropic tendencies, but we have been cultivating anti-Semitism for decades and we would like to consider our responsibilities. Imagine that in Israel there is radio that plays twenty-four hours only Greek music. Music can be a link between real and substantial relations with Israel, which we have common interests in the region against Turkey's imperialist and aggressive trend. Because, Mr. Vroutsi, you referred to the National Admiral Konstantinos Karamanlis and because today we are talking about the islands, if we have the flag of Greece, the lane on the flag is our islands, to recall all this with the exploratory ones. And I will not go either to the "mea cuulpa" of 1988 by Andreas Papandreou or to the meeting of Constantine Mitsotakis - Demirel in 1991, but I will go to 1975, where then Constantine Karamanlis understood the intentions of imperialist Turkey. He had urged Turkey to go to the International Court of The Hague, to raise the continental helmet for the first time, in order for Turkey to sign a promise. At the last minute, then, Turkey has changed its rhetoric and then Suleiman Demirel answers Constantine Karamanlis and says "only for co-existence". Constantine Karamanlis immediately took this agreement, which would be a consideration by Turkey for the Greek islands. I say this because we go to exploratory investigations and we have told you as Greek Solution not to go to The Hague. There are traps and evils, as on Constantine Karamanlis, the National Warlord, in 1975, as was later done by Ozal again Demirel, etc. This is for the history of the islands. I could talk too much about the problems the islands have today. You did some programs with wind turbines, as I speak to friends in Antypalea, with this great investment by the German "VOLKSWAGEN", who do not even know the ground that you will occupy in Antypalea and give them a privilege for electricity. What can they do with the electric car in Antypalea? Give the bonuses for a boat. Upgrade the area with the Aegean Sea as far as landscape architecture is concerned. Water, the big problem today. Ladies and gentlemen, our islands have a problem and a desalination, but above all water. I have not heard in this programme, Minister, of the integrated island policy, that you will see how the corporate development framework agreement and the well-known 'HORIZON EUROPE' programme for water reservoirs will be used in the coming years. If we resolve the problem with reservoirs and water tanks on the islands, we really will relieve them of a very big problem with regard to water supply. So go on to the new framework and the new time horizon with 'HORIZON EUROPE', what the European Union says: 'Reservoirs, therefore, to save the water'. As a Greek Solution, what have we said? Local products and hotel accommodations and tax incentives. I say this because at the last meeting that took place on the problems of the Cyclades in a central hotel in Athens a year and a half ago, hotels say they cannot promote traditional local products. Mostly we're talking about hotels with farms. Another major problem, for which Mr Villard also mentioned, is that the primary sector must be connected. Apiculture in the Cyclades has a huge problem with pesticides. It can't be an announcement for years. I say this because we really guarantee and tax incentives have not been given in order to decentralise ourselves with the policery we have on the islands. Our country occupies thirty thousand eight hundred square miles. Fifteen thousand miles is our coastline. We have no more than six thousand islands and rocky islands. Of these some sixty are inhabitable, seventy - nine islands have more than one hundred inhabitants and only fifty - three islands have more than a thousand inhabitants. And I ask: have we really given a guarantee that the civil servant will be going to provide services to remote islands throughout the Aegean Sea, the Ionian Sea, but with ten years of stay - or perhaps more - or is he going for one, two years, and then in a political way and with phones leaving, so the islands are now having multiple problems? As far as the NAT is concerned, Naval Abstract Fund, no one talked. Where did the reserves go to the currency of NAT, which was the oldest fund since 1861 as a social body? This fund has come to an end, so today seafarers have a serious problem and especially for future generations. Link to chambers, link to local government. I see for the port committee that you have not given identification, because the problems are known by those who have carved their skin and are tempered by the salt and sun of the sea. In one minute and something I have at my disposal, I would like to draw your attention to the most important issue that has to do with the Aegean in the coming years. I'll submit it to the Minutes. Because if the Greek Solution sees something good, from whatever party it comes, we have the boldness and the daring to say it, not like the judiciary, which you did the garrison and the Greek Solution revealed it. Here I present to you what will happen in the Aegean by university professors, Kostas Cartalis, George Kalios, Kostas Laguvardos, Vassos Kotronis, Ioanna Papoulias, Nikos Katsaros. There is no Aegean in the event of a nuclear accident from Akuguu. It's thirty-five thousand pounds a year, four reactors! Do you know what he's saying? In twenty-four hours the Dodecanese this radioactive cloud and thirty-six hours all over the Aegean Sea. And we are talking about the future of the Greek sea, when the Turks are currently violating the Finnish at sea and building an earthquake area. Who says it? Member of the Republican Central Party, Ali Mahir Bassarir, who blames Erdogan. Already we have cracks at the bottom of the reactor, no one is talking about the violation at sea of cross-border cooperation, and in a few years' time the next generations will have Kozloduy and four reactors across the street and the Aegean will die for four thousand years. They are nightmare scripts, but they are the future of the Aegean and the future of Greece, apart from the violation of the Kingdom Treaty! And one last thing. Erdogan works with the Japanese to produce nuclear weapons. And someone will tell me that they can't because they're bound by the treaty. Oh, no, no, There's Article 10. If Turkey says that for national reasons it has the reactor, the International Atomic Energy Commission has no control. And one last thing, it replicates the plutonium that doesn't have the know-how.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u155	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u156	I shall conclude, Madam President, but it is very important for the future of Greece and the Eastern Mediterranean. So the plutonium will be produced. The plutonium has no know-how to clean it up, but Pakistan has. There we go with Pakistan! I have asked this question about a breach of the Treaty, which has been made by the Green Eco-labels, since 2014 in the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u157	Mr. Colleague, please, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u158	Take a position now on the nuclear reactor in the exploratory, to corner Turkey! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u159	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, for once I would ask you to keep the time. Please. There are another fifty-five colleagues! Your time is seven minutes. Mr Pappas from New Democracy has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u160	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, Secretary-General, Mr Secretary-General, ladies and gentlemen, it would be interesting if a great enquiry could illustrate what concepts come into the mind of someone when listening to Greece. Apart from our long history and our brilliant culture, it will surely be the sun, the sea, our islands and, of course, shipping. How does it seem to you that so far there has been no comprehensive strategy for the island policy and maritime development of our country, especially if you consider that the six thousand islands and islands constitute 18.7% of Greece's total surface area, our islands account for about 15% of the population and on our islands 25% of our GDP. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased and pleased that today we are discussing the draft law of the Ministry of Island Policy. And I feel proud, because I come from the locust dodecanese, which I have seen for years struggling to attract capital for growth and for the creation of new jobs. That is what is happening with the draft law that we are discussing today. And I feel double happy, because for the first time a national strategy is being established that will be monitored, evaluated and renewed. Yes, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, for the first time, because, after the abolition of the reduced rates you have made, you have put the tombstone on the Aegean islands. Do not forget that, because you have spoken to many islands and said too much, but the important thing is that you have really forgotten that you have abolished the reduced tax rates. So this strategy is being institutionalised today by the Government of the New Republic of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, with Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy Giannis Plackiotakis. In order to consolidate the strategy, the National Register, which can be registered by entities related to the national strategy, is set up in the General Secretariat of the Aegean and Island Policy. At the same time, an Monitoring and Documentation Platform is being established in the fields of the national strategy, with full data and statistics on the development and implementation of all projects. Ladies and gentlemen, in the draft law, which really is an integrated piece of legislation covering a large gap, very important financial instruments are included. Such instruments will enable us to finance infrastructure, energy and transport projects, and also to provide the necessary assistance to small and medium-sized enterprises, to enterprises that live and work on our islands. Speaking of infrastructure, I would like to make a special reference to the start of procedures for the construction of Kos' new hospital. This is a request for decades from the Kos. I would personally like to thank Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis for his interest in the green light he has shown, the Minister of Health, the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr Vassiliou Kontozamanis, the President of the CBYP Mr Timos Katsipou and Managing Director Thanasis Yannaris for their cooperation in a key theme and work on the island of the Dodecanese, for the wonderful Kos. Ladies and gentlemen, the tools contained in the bill are the 'newarchos' programme, the Solar Entrepreneurship Finance Programme and the Maritime - Blue Economy Fund. The aim is to raise funds of between EUR 200 and 250 million from the Public Investment Programme, from European resources and the Greek Development Bank. The NEARTHOS programme aims at the sustainable development of ports and the improvement of their infrastructure as well as the critical infrastructures of port authorities, public commercial schools and other facilities of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy. The ports of our islands are gateways to the economy and we are now finding the way to develop. This is how sea transport and tourism are being upgraded, especially in remote areas, where it is important for us to upgrade and improve the quality of life of our residents, residents on our islands, the Aegean islands and the Dodecanese. The financing programme for Local Entrepreneurship aims to provide all kinds of funding to enterprises located in purely island regions, enterprises active in the maritime economy, in particular small, medium-sized and micro-enterprises. The Maritime and Blue Economy Fund aims to make the most of the financial instruments available to develop and promote innovative entrepreneurship. These areas include the marine economy and blue development, the maritime economy, shipbuilding equipment, applied technology and information technology in shipping. I would like to make a special reference to Article 28 of the draft law, which concerns carnajas and tarans that build many small wooden ships. For many of our islands, such as Halki, Symi, Leros, the heroic island of Kassos, are part of our tradition which, in this way, is being saved. At this point I could not go into some of the things that we have achieved for the Dodecanese and thank the Minister for Maritime and Island Policy, Mr Giannis Placiotakis. One important and first thing I would like to say is that you saved the trunk, Mr. Minister of Shipping, you kept our ports in the crisis open, you keep the lives on our islands. It is very important that we should appreciate and honour this in this House. Because I have not heard one positive word from colleagues from SYRIZA and Anti-Population about the work and work you have done in the pandemic crisis, in this global crisis, to keep the islands and there is no problem on any Aegean islands, especially on the islands of the Dodecanese. The second and fundamental is the daily connection you have achieved, Minister, and I refer to the link between Rhodes and Kastelorizo. It's the first time since Kastelorizo has a daily ship from Rhodes. I think that, and I think, there is no problem with anyone saying so, but there has been no congratulating you on this great project, when we have been talking about our national rights lately. Third and important for the Dodecanese. My Minister, you have supported and strengthened all our island companies, you have kept the companies of our islands involved in shipping alive, you have saved jobs and thus helped the local economy to remain alive. A fourth point and very important, and I would ask you to give a basis and I shall be done. We managed to implement a fixed request from our islands: connecting to Crete, connecting Rhodes, Kassos, Karpathos and Crete. It is very important, Minister, and with our intervention the ship made a stop to the island of Halki, a small attitude of great importance to the inhabitants. Every ship bound to the port of our remote islands, with the exception of passengers and goods, also brings the development and the feeling that the islands are not alone, are not isolated. Our vision for the remote islands is not to listen again to islands of barren line, but to islands on the development line.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u161	You have to close down, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u162	I shall conclude, Madam President. I'd like one more minute. It's very important.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u163	I won't give you a minute. You have a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u164	I'll table a proposal and then I'll be done. Minister, I would like this ferry line, please, to remain in 2021 and continue. It's important for these islands, it's development for our islands. And the request, if possible, to widen the width, not to be just three months, to take it if we can from March, from April to October. Linking to what you are voting on and there are within the island policy bill is important to our islands. That is why I would call on SYRIZA, Vice-President of the Commission to vote for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u165	Mr. Comrade, please, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u166	But honestly, I didn't understand their current nervousness. I don't understand why. I don't know if they were affected by the tension and movement of Mr. Tsipras, who is chasing publishers and journalists, Mr. Kurtakis and Mr. Papachristos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u167	Mr. Comrade! Mr. Comrade!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u168	We know you can't stand criticism.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u169	Mr. Comrade, you're talking out of the question now! Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u170	Thank you very much, Madam President, and I am sorry. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u171	Thank you, too. Mrs. Kafantaris has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u172	Me, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u173	Mr Heta, you told me yourself that you would speak after Mrs Kafantaris, so I didn't call you. Here, Mrs. Kafantaris, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u174	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot answer - of course it is not at the moment - the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Brutsis, who referred to the legal case of the house rented by former Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras in Sounio. Once again, the New Democracy and its Parliamentary Representative here in Parliament as advocates of two journalists who refused to restore the truth. But there is justice and I am sure that justice will be done. Secondly, I should like to remind those who are also listening to a number of things that have been said again by Mr Brutsi about the television scenery and the media in terms of governance SYRIZA. I'll remind you that we have channels licensed, that's not a small thing. Some people put their hand in the pocket for the first time. And very importantly for both journalists and all who work in the press is that they were guaranteed by the law of the SYRIZA government four hundred employees. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] At the moment, we all know that they are preparing to abolish this minimum of four hundred. Mr. Petsas as a Government spokesman 15, twenty days ago took back a relative thought and arrangement. But we will see what will happen from now on, because truths must be spoken in the Greek Parliament, because they hear us from Greeks and Greeks. I shall now refer to the draft law that we are discussing. In fact, the draft law clearly reflects the policy of the Government of New Democracy. Firstly, neoliberalism based on ideas and, of course, the service of specific political interests. It is something that is happening in all areas. And why shouldn't it be in shipping? Welcoming tactics are privatization for the New Democracy. He's making it for the private sector at all times. The regulation that is being made for the Navigation Service is indeed a courier to go there, beyond the risks that are created and I shall refer to it further. Secondly, we are serving the few, and here in Article 25, with the monopoly management of waste in ports. And if you want, because you are liberal, gentlemen of the New Democracy, you are abolishing competition. That's not a small thing. Thirdly, the deterioration of the environment by the 'green' government of Mr Mitsotakis, which has to do with the way the waste is handled - in relation to what I said before, monopoly management - and, on the other hand, the abolition of environmental licences for projects which are considered, without being national defence projects. There is no maritime policy, however, which does not introduce - and we have waited for this bill, which you consider to be flagrant, that you would do so - arrangements which are important for ecosystems, maritime planning and all that. Fourthly, abolishing independent authorities. In the meantime, with the regulations that exist and with the fact that 80% of ral's responsibilities will go to the Ministry, it is essentially a abolition of this principle. Here, in other words, we have a man's authority, the Minister for Maritime Affairs. And of course that is your ultimate state, concentration, lack of rules. Of course, there is - and our parliamentary representative has mentioned this - an indirect tradition of national sovereignty in ports, because the PPA, the PLF are privatised ports in private interests. And that has to do with the previous one I mentioned, with the management of waste in one without checks. In other words, the gates of our country - because the ports are the gates of our country - are open and are not controlled. You know what that means if it happened at your house. We have another bill in the middle of a pandemic that had to deal with the islands, what we call 'insularity', based on the modern data of the present, on the consequences of the pandemic, which has exacerbated inequalities. Islandity, this term we like to say, means specific things and we have proposed in the Revision of the Constitution, in Article 101 that every administrative act of the state should include specific policies for islands and of course also for mountain regions. We therefore have a draft law entitled 'Sea policy integrated', etc., but the problems of the islands remain, acidify and do not see concrete actions, giving a vision of alleviating disparities not only within the pandemic, but also in general. The marine environment, how do we deal with it? It seems the government thinks its environment is an obstacle. We have seen this many times in the New Democracy mandate, we have seen it in the development law in November 2019, in Mr Hatzidakis' anti-environmental law, and we are now seeing it again in the article I referred to before, on waste management in ports, but we are even seeing it in Article 30, excluding specific shipping and maritime surveillance projects from environmental licensing procedures. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, there is a serious issue in this draft law, which does not have a vision. This is essentially a draft law without vision, without vision, without vision, without vision, which serves specific interests. We have waited for maritime policy - which is also in the title - to talk about the effects on the marine environment and their response to maritime pollution, to talk about air pollution, which is created in large ports. And those from Piraeus know that very well. Why are electricityed by ships that are beamed? There would be proposals and plans to protect biodiversity, because we do not forget that the Mediterranean is a closed sea and its waters are renewed every 100 years, so the protection of the marine environment is important.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u175	Your Honor, you have to close down.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u176	Because, you know, ladies and gentlemen of the government, there is the Paris Agreement, there are also the objectives of the UN Sustainable Development, as are a number of European commitments. In conclusion, Minister, I wanted to tell you that in September 2020 we asked you a question about the Barcelona Protocol and two points, Article 8 and Article 9, which speak of transatlantic activities and of coastal zone management.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u177	Ladies and gentlemen, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u178	Your Ministry's answer was that it is a matter of the Ministry of the Environment and we are not concerned.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u179	Ladies and gentlemen, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u180	You need to see this because it is not a maritime policy without protection and without ratification of international conventions protecting the marine and coastal areas.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u181	Madam Colleague!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u182	Thank you, I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u183	Madam Colleague, are you ironic about the Bureau? Excuse me now!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u184	I'm sorry?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u185	So, let me get this straight, are you ironic about the Bureau?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u186	I told you 'I'm done', Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u187	I've been talking to you for so long and you haven't stopped. I addressed the floor and you did not stop! For Christ's sake! I don't understand what's going on today! I will say for the last time that there are fifty other colleagues. Any person who abuses time shall be deprived of time by a colleague. Do you understand that? How else can I tell you? I can't let anyone speak seven minutes and someone else eight or nine or ten minutes! The Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution, Mr Hetas, has the floor now. Here, Mr. Heta, you have six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u188	Madam President, I shall also take my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u189	You can't take her now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u190	Why, Madam President? I'll talk seven minutes and I'll finish. I won't talk later. Thank you, Madam President. Before I enter the bill, I would like to say this: although Mr Brutsi is an old parliamentarian and he should be here, I would like to say this to him: Listen, you cannot rush our intelligence nor play with us. You should at least respect us. And I don't care now what SYRIZA did. Everything they did. Anyone who rules controls the means. What can we say now? Fairy tales in the world? Anyone who rules controls the means. But can the New Democracy, the Parliamentary Representative, Mr Brutsi, talk about press control? Is it possible for you to talk, who control everything that is left in history, the Pecha list, and not just, that we can't cross the channels and ring the alarms and we're excluded from everywhere? Are you talking about liberation and press freedom? He wants some seriousness in here. We are in the Greek Parliament! For Christ's sake! Eighteen MPs for nineteen months have never been to a channel! Never! And Mr Brutsis is now talking about freedom of the press and about control of the press. There was no government that passed through the Municipalisation and then control the media like New Democracy! And I know, Mr. Marcopoulou, fellow journalist, that that's the way it is. If you have another opinion, tell her when you get after the speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u191	I'll say it!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u192	You'll have to say it! What are you gonna say? That you don't control the channels? But can you say such things in here? Is it possible for the New Democracy to speak about control of the press? So let's go down. Mr Plakkatakis, we would very much like the title of the bill to be equivalent and content. Two hands, we'd vote for it. But other things you write in titles and other things you do inside. Where is the strengthening of the multipathic inhabitants of our islands, our islanders, who have been the ones putting backs and who have been acting as "wavebreakers" for so many years against Turkey's expansion policies? These are the 'wavebreakers', these must be our support, these lives and the biodiversity must be protected. These must be supported and not, Minister, we must beat them when they defend their lives and their lives or when they protest illegal immigration and illegal immigrants. We shouldn't beat the islanders, but we should support them. Where is an action programme to stimulate local society and economy, stimulate and support fishermen, reduce unemployment? Where are these actions? Where are the cooperation actions with local bodies? Where is the integrated maritime policy, which is still missing, as is the development of fishing zones? That's the important thing, not all the rest of the stuff you're talking about in here. That's it! That's what you have to do! And I come to a question now: why in the bill are you referring to the 'North Aegean', the 'South Aegean', and the Ionian Sea? Why divide it into ‘North Aegean’ and ‘South Aegean’ and do you not refer to ‘East Aegean’ at all? I'm asking, is anything behind it? Why should we 2.5 million, whatever these are, for the ices in the North Atlantic, instead of giving them to the poor, the world and the poor households? I didn't understand why Greece would have to pay for this! I don't understand why a bankrupt country should pay that money! You know what you should do? Go on to the universal extension of territorial waters to twelve nautical miles, go directly to the establishment of fishing zones, pay attention to what you agree, what you deliver and what you are dismantling with your foreign policy. These are the important ones! You should really strengthen local communities on the islands and, in cooperation with local bodies, give incentives to stimulate markets, local entrepreneurs, our fishermen, who are on a daily basis in front of Turkish vessels. You should demand substantial solidarity from the European Union. Greece and the Greeks do not want mercifulness or great words! We are at last demanding real support and solidarity! We demand! Not only are we giving, giving, giving as a country, but we are demanding! That's what you had to do and you didn't do it. Really, what can we vote for what you brought? It's a little hard. You celebrate and you're doing well! Depends on how each one interprets reality. People are listening to us and judging! And let's go to the coroner. You've done a salad! There's no doubt about it! You've made them a regular salad! However, the problem is that your own mistakes, your government, are paid by the Greeks. You go and handle, because that's how you have to, surgically accurately, the coronary, and you go to do ball surgery. Take the balm and cut! Whatever the ballet gets! Either I close it all or I open it all or nothing! The "patient", gentlemen! The economy died, the trade died, the retail trade died, the focus died, hope died! Understood? You don't understand that thing? He's dead! There's no dime out! And you're taking measures from the Treasury - you bring it tomorrow - and you're doing well - but you're putting in such filters and such conditions to get the other one, half of which stay out. So "gift gift" is called this! I'm coming now to Thano Gino. Who's the gentleman? He's a Greek citizen, a taxpayer, an honest worker. So Mr. Ginos sent a letter to the President of the Greek Solution, in which he writes: "Good evening, Mr. Velopole", a short time ago, the President of the Greek Solution read a letter, I will read you another of the hundreds that arrive at our offices, "I am resident of Philatres, the owner of coffee - in the square. Today, I was informed by my accountant that I am not ultimately the beneficiary of the repayable advance 5 while I had taken 4. And I ask you: How can I afford it? How am I going to meet the obligations of my home? How am I going to cope with my children while I'm closed with a government decision?" This is a cry of anxiety from the Greeks. And it continues: "The reason why my application was rejected is the turnover I presented in September..." etc. Do you know that? Do you know how many "Ginoy Deads" are out there? Do you see these? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, I am not going to take my dentistry. And can I tell you something else? And to us, the little parties, which we have two Members to talk to, can give you a minute more. I won't take six and three, nine minutes, but six and two, eight minutes. There's another pandemic that none of you sees. It's an invisible pandemic. Apart from the economic mine, it's drugs, psychopharmaceuticals, domestic violence, alcohol. Everyone has hit'red' right now! According to an American CDC survey, from July 2019 to May 2020, we had eighty-one thousand deaths from drug overdose, 38.4% increase! We're going to domestic violence. According to the National American Agency for domestic violence, there was an increase of 9%. 90% denounces verbal violence, 61% physical violence, 24% economic violence, 16% online violence, and 11% sexual harassment and rape! This is the invisible pandemic with which no one is involved. That's what citizens are pulling out there, with their empty pockets, empty funds and their shops closed. They've put it in the psychopharmaceuticals! If you think you have a successful policy in dealing with pandemic, then you live in a parallel universe! Let's go to others, just like in the highways. Make a haircut. We've told you a hundred times! The state loses 300 million of unpaid traffic charges! He's missing 300 million euros! This is today's article! The government's budget is on the air! How will the Greeks pay? We're going to the AKO accounts, to the city fees, to the contributions of the closed business, to the focus. Help people. Check the collector companies now! They suck the medal of the world, they have no sacred and loyal, they have no respect! As for the cheques, now make two forty instalments! Now! Do it now to save the world, what we can save from the world! That is what I wanted to say, Madam President. I would also like to say to Mr Plakatakis that we would really like to see such a sensitive issue on our islands that we were able to vote in favour of an essential bill for our islanders. Unfortunately, you didn't make it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u193	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Loverdos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u194	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, today all mankind honors the memory of the victims of the Holocaust, one of the greatest - if not the biggest - crimes against humanity that the sick human brain has ever invented. Especially, we Greeks, who had too many fellow Jews who found tragic death in the Nazi concentration camps, have an additional reason to honor their memory. We will never forget and we will never forget, and because we have suffered two genocide on our side, the Genocide of the Pontians and the uprooting of Asia Minor Hellenism, as well as the other terrible crime, the Armenian genocide. That is why we must all strive to root out of the human soul - if we can call it 'human soul' - evil, hatred, racism in every form and intolerance. In particular, we politicians must be even more responsible in what direction we want to give our countries, our states, our people. And one of the first things we have to do - and I have been struggling for years for this - is to be able to find what unites us and not what separates us. Unfortunately, we tend and I see it - as an old-fashioned journalist, but a young man in Parliament - happening perk. We're looking for what separates us and how we can fight with each other. We have seen this now, in this bill, a bill of important importance, which we must discuss, of course, and we must have our disagreements, but disagreements with proposals, with content, in order to improve the situation in island Greece. I have already heard the Greek Parliamentary Representative, Mr Heta, say about the disaster that has occurred in our country because of COVID -19. Of course there has been a great, great, and not only in Greece, but throughout the world. Cases all over the world are more than a hundred million. Over two million are the dead. In Greece, fortunately, we are a little lower, but that means something else. We've got about six thousand dead. All Mr. Hetas said, like all those critics, can tell Yannis Paciotakis, where he is? It is a happy coincidence that the bill we are debating today introduces it into Parliament and defends it by a minister who has had the luck and misfortune to go through this terrible disease, which undermines the foundations of all humanity. Yannis Paciotakis, my good friend, can tell you exactly what nightmares the man is suffering from this disease. Some people end up in death, but what about those who are being saved is this? An unprecedented nightmare! These people, when they say there are problems and shouldn't they close one another or open one another or open the other, do they have anything else to propose? Because I hear that and I fall off the clouds. It's an unprecedented situation, it's never happened before. Never before! To say that someone knows how to deal with pandemic is a big mistake, and it doesn't fit for micro-party reasons to do it. We do not need to limit ourselves to this great adventure that passes through our country and all mankind at this point. There's no need for petty and petty. We have to be older than that. Today, however, we are talking about the bill of island policy brought by the relevant Ministry under Mr Plakkatakis and my dear friend, Kostas Katsafados. It's an important bill without any doubt. And that's why I decided to speak in this bill, although I don't represent some island region. Maybe I'm one of the few who don't represent an island area. Although I'm proud of my capital origin, I don't want to take the seat of the Divine Cappatos. I will continue to represent Peristeri, Ilioon, Petroupoli, Aigaleo, Agia Barbara, Saint Anargyros, Cameroon, areas that are not independent of our islands. Because Greece does not exist independently of our islands, because Greece is an island state, perhaps the only island state in the European Union. We've forgotten that. There are two island states, Malta and Cyprus, but so many islands no other state in the European Union has.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u195	Sweden...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u196	As much as Greece and not inhabited as Europe's borders to the east. In this sense, I think the bill is very important. I hear objections. Of course there will also be objections. Alas, if there are no objections. Alas, if it's all amazing. We'll see about it in practice. That's what I'm saying. We'll see about it in practice. The bill is in the right direction, without any doubt. For the first time, an integrated policy is given, aimed at strengthening and rectifying our islands and, above all, those islands which have a very serious problem, such as our remote islands. It's a national issue. Greece does not exist without our islands. And Greece is an island state, which must be supported by all of us together. Because it's a national cause. He is neither a party nor a party of my own region nor a MP will be re-elected. No, nothing else. Above all, our aim is to save Greece from its risks and the way to save it is to support our islands. This attempts to do the bill brought by the Ministry of Trade Shipping and Island Policy in the right direction. Of course, there will also be objections. Of course we will expect to see its implementation, but I think that all of us should be struggling today to vote for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u197	Thank you, Mr. Loverdos, for you have been precise in time. And by taking over the presidency at the moment, I would like to say to everyone who follows that the seven minutes will be observed accurately, and I will warn the six minutes of anyone who says that it will be over in a minute. From the very beginning, I have been explaining myself, so as not to be misunderstood in any way. In six minutes I warn you that in one you are done and so go to the last page of your text. Mr Constantopoulos now has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u198	Ladies and gentlemen, today is a special day. We pay tribute to the Greek Jews who were displaced to Auschwitz and transferred to the gas chambers, these people who were exterminated from the nazi hatred. Historical events, ladies and gentlemen, cannot be eradicated, but, of course, they cannot be rewritten. That's why the memory of all of us must be alive. We must therefore have the complete conflict with all those who seek to distort the Holocaust, the conflict with all the manifestations of anti-Semitism. The Holocaust, ladies and gentlemen, belongs to human rights and must therefore be served, as the great intellectual, Professor Jehunda Bauer, said. They may not have been all the victims of the Nazis, but all the Jews were victims of the Nazis. And let this be held. I would like, ladies and gentlemen, before entering the bill, to testify to my grief and grief over the inconvenience of my partner and fellow Sfi Valyrakis, who honoured the struggle for democracy, honoured our country, our country as an ultrapatriot. He has honoured the democratic party, served the PASOK by many positions of responsibility and, of course, has never betrayed it, without any breaches in our history, values and principles. We honor this man and his actions honor him. He'll be in the reminder of all of us, I'd say, limey memory and he'll be alive in our hearts. Warm condolences to his family. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as the bill we are discussing is concerned, our country, as we all know, is a purely island country. We have therefore waited for a bill, which would primarily have a reform initiative and not an attempt to resolve outstanding issues through a stirring of provisions. Chapters fourteen, articles forty-eight for an imperfection, we would say, maritime policy. There are a number of issues, such as the obligation and the process of drafting an integrated policy in the island area, such as the incorporation into the Greek legal framework of the International Maritime Organisation, such as dealing with the consequences of the pandemic on shipowners, shipowners and shipowners - and I would say good, Minister, who have essentially joined Kastelorizo with the Dodecanese and Rhodes, because positive ones should be said - such as the payment of pilot rights, such as maritime tourism and charters, such as the organisation and operation of the Fisheries Monitoring Centre, as well as the arrangements for ports and ports. Ladies and gentlemen, a first comment on the bill is that there is no definition of an integrated maritime policy, particularly for islands. Secondly, with regard to the Greek strategy, there are no policy areas that it will focus. Thirdly, we do not see, I would say, a political framework for managing the operational programmes of the ESDP. It must also be stressed that there is no information about what funds will be made available, how they will be distributed and who will be concerned. Fourthly, we are discussing, I would say, here today for the Maritime and Blue Economy Fund and you are not telling us, Minister, where you will find these national funds to support its funding. So, while it is a positive policy, I would say, it seems to be a lame one. And that, of course, should be kept. Fifthly, as far as the register of maritime economic operators is concerned, I would say here, ladies and gentlemen, that there is no framework in which operators are to be drawn up, i.e. the criteria, procedures and manner of operation are missing. Sixth and joint finding, support measures for maritime work are limited. And seventh and most important, the Navy academies are subordinated, and their function naturally refers to other seasons. And, unfortunately, we do not see in the bill any sign of modernisation when at the same time everyone in this Chamber is basically talking and we experience the digital age. As our rapporteur, Mr Biagis, has said, public maritime education needs redesign and rebooting. A redesign needs to be made with a new management system, with modern curriculum and operation and a valuable staffing system, with teachers and managers from the Navy and not seconded other specialties, as is the case in several Academies of the Merchant Navy. We, the PASOK, the Change Movement, say no to the semimeters. Our proposal, proposed by the Change Movement - PASOK, is to have at least two masters of the first class of private law indefinitely. The Director's choice, Mr Minister, is to be made through the Training Council and not by a simple statement, that is to say, as is the case at the Centre for Training Officers of the Merchant Navy and, indeed, the masters and engineers. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, Article 30 introduces an exception to environmental authorisation procedures, environmental commitments and environmental impact studies, and this, of course, to three projects. It is understandable, Minister, that you want to introduce the fastest procedure for the projects, but here you know that neither urgent nor essential requirement exists to circumvent the procedure. And that, Minister, keep it. That is why, and here we are against each other, we say no discount. No discount on the protection of the marine environment. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, today's bill should incorporate a comprehensive strategy of the Ministry for the effective strengthening of the Greek islands. This is not the case. There is no care to strengthen employment in the islands, to strengthen health and social care structures. See, dear Minister, what happens to many islands today, particularly in the midst of the crisis and the pandemic, by vaccination and especially to large older groups, since all citizens experience it on the islands and are taken daily. The difficulties are enormous. Old people are forced either to move in these difficult conditions from one island to another to be vaccinated or waiting. And here is the lack of political planning, I would say, while at the same time seeing what? That there is no one, but no one, care for the protection of whom too? The environment, as well as the use of sustainable and renewable energies, as well as the management of water resources and waste. In other words, Minister, there are no political and specific measures on the social, territorial and economic cohesion of our islands. In this context, ladies and gentlemen, in view of the inequality in the area of islands, it is necessary to reintroduce the special arrangements for VAT in island Greece. We have said so many times in this Chamber, and today we have tabled an amendment. So the amendment we tabled to you, Mr Minister, we ask you to accept it. The consequences, ladies and gentlemen, of the pandemic and, indeed, of the dramatic situation we are experiencing, what are we still seeing? We see incomplete health infrastructures when our islands suffer from the collapse of tourism and from high travel costs. Unfortunately, Minister, this bill does not provide solutions. That is why this bill does not find us in agreement and we voted against it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that the third wave of pandemic appears to be before the gates. The citizens have been concerned by misinformation, with vaccine companies targeting what? Profit. Everyone, but we're all waiting for the vaccination to accelerate, because that's the answer. Families are concerned about the opening up of schools, workers are insecurity, businesses are fighting for survival. We therefore need a responsible attitude, planning and information. It requires substantial support for the citizens and businesses affected by the pandemic in order to avoid new repatriations. And all this, leaving demagogy and realism aside. In conclusion, I would like to say this because I have heard colleagues refer either to villas, to cocks or to opinions: whoever lives from his sword says a Chinese proverb dies from the sword. I leave the conclusions to all colleagues from SYRIZA. Because the lie has short feet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u199	Thank you, Mr. Constantopoulos. The speaker of the New Democracy, Mr Dimitris Markopoulos, now has the floor for seven minutes. You helped in time, Mr. Constantopoulos, because you blocked the clock, and I had to put five minutes while you had pre-speaked with a stopped clock. I think that won't happen again. Mr. Marcopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u200	No three minutes, Mr. President, will we? Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, we welcome the dear State Secretary, Costa Katsafados. It is a very positive development that we have a Piraeus Secretary and we are really pleased by the wider Piraeus. I can only start as a former journalist with the zero conduct that Alexis Tsipras showed as regards journalists and publishers. Look, those who say you're going to put reporters down the ground, you'll remember stories about Himalayan cats, trying to bike publishing organisations and put your own people for managers, you who made a law about the four channels, and finally the Council of State came and gave you the answers that you should, now, ask your Chief of Staff 1 million euros from two journalists. That much he misses? Possibly, to get the villa's amount out.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u201	Don't be silly.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u202	These are inadmissible things. Inadmissible things! In fact, to remind you, since you're talking about the media, Kalogeritsa - Manjuranis a Tsipras street! Now let's go see the island policy. Are you talking about island policy, which you put tombstones in the Aegean Sea, by eliminating the reduced tax rates? Are you talking about an emblematic bill brought here by the Minister, Giannis Pakisotakis, and which goes to the island Hellenism ahead? Are you talking about the island entrepreneurship, when this new bill comes here to give breath? Look, you should apologize rather than a government that promotes the islands and puts them at the forefront of a national recovery struggle. I rarely speak because I do not like the self-reporting around our regions, but I will speak about my island, Salamis. It's a bill that gives an excellent opportunity. Of course, what can I tell you now at SYRIZA? Can I talk to you about entrepreneurship? For a marine investment? For marine development? What about the need for resources to be made available to small and medium-sized enterprises? They're meanings that you don't understand because of the state that's become your big elbow. We therefore need to reward this effort. Also, as I have quite rightly heard, and I want to point this out for Giannis Plakatakis, say a good one! Our coastline was retained, the islands were held up all these difficult months with COVID -19. There were policies that did not exclude the islands from a ministry which was given a great deal of struggle. We've got to get in a good one, 'cause this department's starting port policies. We see the battle given and reduced by 80% the migratory flows and these battles were fought by the Greek Port, which is flesh of the Ministry of Shipping. I would therefore like to say that he really innovatives the Ministry and the Minister. This is because the draft law before us is the concrete legislative initiative of the Government to attempt for the first time a comprehensive and strategic policy on island Greece and the maritime economy. Most people have combined me as a journalist around politics. However, I have been over twenty years - Trees of Alexiadis, remember me, you - financial journalist. What was the concept of "entrepreneurship" always in Greece? Industry, commerce, startups, innovation. So here's where the Ministry here with the bill puts shipping. He's talking about marine entrepreneurship. Ladies and gentlemen, we must adopt this. Sea entrepreneurship. There's a great wealth in the sea. We can see, then, that, with the first chapter of the bill, recognising the adverse effects caused by the economy of the islands because of geographical existential specialities, an island policy is first introduced, which introduces decommissioned ones - to copy the concepts that we Piraeus - concepts of maritime economy and development, which also replace the earlier interventions that were a fragmentary one and which, in other words, proved ineffective. A national strategy for integrated maritime policy is being established in the island area, inaugurating specialized development laws, relating to port policy, maritime infrastructure, maritime transport, island competitiveness - another expression that we need to put into our lives and very useful - and entrepreneurship. Nothing has happened for so many years. The small and medium-sized island business enters the castle and there will finally be funding. At the same time, a fund is being set up for the development and promotion of innovative entrepreneurship in the marine economy and for blue growth, emphasis on technology, new applications, the blue investment, as we say to the Greeks, to make a little sense of humor. A General Secretariat of the Aegean and Island Policy is set up, the National Register of Maritime Economy Bodies, the Single Monitoring and Documentation Platform. The provisions contained in Chapter III extend the measures to support seafarers because of pandemic and coronary, folk politics, to complement the General Strategy of the Ministry to keep our shipping, our shipping standing in the krone season. I'm going to say something about ral, because there's been a conversation. The Port Regulatory Authority is always useful in the spirit of the presence of the independent authorities, which is supported by Kyriakos Mitsotakis. We are not like you, who wanted the independent authorities to close them. We want to keep them open, and the depreciation of these must not be and it is not our policy. From there on, I am sure that this amendment makes an effort - as the Minister has told us - and I would like to believe that it will go well - and RAL will be alive and creative and will make the interventions that need to be made and at the same time, at the same time, stopping these duplications that exist and that there will be functionality. Finally, I would like to say that here is a participatory activity. We want all the agencies next to us. We want the shipyard links next to us. We want our engineers next door. We want all this social alliance, which the port, Piraeus, and our islands need to go forward, an alliance in which you too would be well, bearing in mind what you have not done so many years, to consider whether, by reviewing your position, join. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u203	Thank you, Mr Marcopoulou, for keeping time. The speaker of SYRIZA now has the floor - Progressive Alliance Mr.Tryphotos Alexiadis for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u204	Thank you, Mr President. I will use fewer minutes because it was made by several Members of the New Democracy by criticism and reference to the question of Alexis Tsipras' efforts of self-protecting against slander and his attack. And I would like to ask, if I may agree, with you, but to clarify your position: you have made a criticism because a politician is trying to defend himself from defamation and from mud. Because you, Mr Marcopoulou, are not personally talking about having no personal reasons, etc., with journalistic experience you know that there are specific postcards on the market, journalistic pennies carrying out contracts. I too - and you know the case - am the victim of such a case. But I don't understand the critics. Will one of you here publicly criticise me here to say that I, Alexiades or hi, my legitimate right to resign, if I are slandered and lie, to go to court? Safe criticising to give certificates to some, no. Public statement here and then we can talk about it. With regard to the issue of the bill, our rapporteur and the Government representative have been placed in full political adequacy. Very little time, telegraphically, I'm going to raise some points. I can't be placed in everything, though I'd like to. First of all, Minister, and Mr Secretary-General, with personal appreciation but with great political disagreement on your policy, you also insist on the scourge you have given the Members of the New Democracy say about the so-called 'olistic approach' and on the integrated policy. I've been looking for these days, because I'm also getting briefed on shipping issues, see one body, even of those who are commanded by friendly representatives to you, has he said this conversation? Considers an operator of the shipping of Piraeus, etc. that this is a bill that gives an integrated policy, a holistic approach? Oh, no. Why? Because that's not the case. And that's something you'll find in front of you in the next time. It's kind of like the tax reforms he had in the past to make every minister who was changing. I did not do so, and I did not do so, because problems are not to say big words, it is to do our job as they should. Specific observations on the draft law. Article 22, on the issue of pilots a day when the pilots' strike - and their good - was 100% successful. And despite the strange fact that some companies are pulling them into court and we will see the developments there, they continue their struggle. We are, of course, with them on this subject too. I cannot understand your insistence on this matter. I cannot understand your insistence, because there is no European regulation that obliges you. And I do not understand how you respond to issues such as, for example, national security issues. We had the previous period of conflict of a commercial ship with a warship that had no pilots, than we've been informed. If you have any further information, tell us. What if this had happened on the seafront of Salamis, Panemeni, in sensitive national areas, which would rule out an entire region in a very critical period? What if the pilot's position is a master or another sailor in another country with whom we have difficult relations? So answer that. And, finally, this arrangement is an arrangement that gives thanks to the shipowners' interests, after exempting their ships from navigating obligations, lowering shipping costs, a clear demonstration of the New Democracy's chronic effort to downgrade and depreciate navigating navigating service. We are, quite rightly, vertically opposed to this article because it puts the safety of seafarers and passengers at great risk of causing accidents, with great environmental consequences, even on national issues. That is why it seems to me that you do not come out to reply to statements from operators, such as, for example, the Memorandum of the Pan-Hellenic Association of Shipowners of Ruulus and Navals. NICOLAOS", which people quite rightly raise these issues with you, and you are not answering. Also important is Article 25, on the issue of the renewal of port reception and waste management contracts, where it is very clear what you want to do. It has been announced and well explained by SYRIZA executives. But I cannot understand, Minister: do you realize that the monopolies in the management of waste in Piraeus, in the ship repairs to Perama and throughout Greece have made the port activities of the country uncompetitive and you, a party that you are in favour of neoliberalism, are in fact abolishing any competitiveness and imposing monopolies? A debate on Article 24 and on the positive direction of the creation of a State Single Market for the Port Community. That's a positive article. This provision shows that there is a special relationship between the shipping and port community and the private owner of the port, the ‘COSCO’. On the basis of this article, Minister, please make it clear that your intentions regarding the plans for the PPA to proceed to Keracini in the construction of the fourth pier are clear to the end of the procedure. It is a proposal which, if implemented, will create huge problems in the residential fabric and due to noise and a number of other situations and will transform the coastal zone into a life-long city, of course, with problems in ship repair activities. Know that we in the Second Piraeus have a lot of experience of successful social political struggles and we will not let these issues go like this. Given the time pressure, only two phrases, one in relation to the RAL layout. Mr Plakkatakis, Minister, there were shipping ministers who went through the Ministry of Shipping with harmless passages, such as the phrase in International Law. They left a job, left a seal. Others left off. Begging, do not connect your own political career, your own political future with such a process, that leaves gray in the aftermath.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u205	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u206	I shall conclude, Mr President. Please answer the paradox of how it is possible in Salamis, said by Mr. Marcopoulos, that the suublasi shop eats a fine per day, while the shipowner eats a fine, regardless of the employees per day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u207	Thank you, too, for approaching time. After the Stepma is settled, the floor will be taken by the Deputy Minister of Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u208	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin my position on what the good friend and colleague, Giannis Loverdes, said. In fact, what one would expect - and I myself would expect - would be at such critical times that the country is experiencing - and because of the national issues and because of the coronary pandemic and the consequences it has - we would find common places and try to invest in them to strengthen the defences of the country and to improve its conditions. And more common place than the insularity of our country could not exist. I believe that everyone in this Chamber understands and recognises the national role, the national importance of supporting our islands and islands, the social characteristics it has, the economic characteristics it has and, if you like, the sense of law. Because that's what the Constitution says, that all citizens are equal to each other. And it must not be that islanders, like those who live in mountainous areas of our country, feel that they do not have the same opportunities as everyone else. What are we doing right now, ladies and gentlemen? I must congratulate both the Minister for Commercial Shipping, Giannis Pakisotakis, and the Secretary-General of the Ministry for this great effort they have made. It is not a piece of legislation that came within a day, as some people are trying to pass, to satisfy our interests, the grandeur of the Minister, or to be able to gather powers. It is a piece of legislation, which is the result of a very large dialogue, which has taken place with all mayors, regional leaders, with fourteen regional dialogues, which have been conducted with three hundred twenty-seven bodies, who have participated and tabled proposals. And I'm going to disagree with Mr. Alexiadis for leaving the Step just now. And in the committee, the vast majority of the bodies were in favour of the bill. So I listen to you, ladies and gentlemen, particularly of SYRIZA, say on the one hand that we want to create other conditions, conditions of control over islands, and on the other, that it is utopian, that it is an empty shirt, as you said. What's the matter with both of you? Or one will either. They can't be both. We can't even be with the policeman and the ranger. I'm really wondering. How is that possible? Because Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the Government of New Democracy and this Republic want to spend the moment with the deposit of this bill, how important it is for the country, not for the New Democracy, strengthening the islands, not seeing the islands fragmentary and - through a holistic plan, with appropriate and necessary tools and control - to be able to create the infrastructures and conditions for the social balance that they must have and the economic development of all these regions. And that's what we do. We are shaping the framework, how we can implement these policies. And we also have three financial instruments, each of which for different projects and different procedures. There is the NERARHOS programme, which is mainly to do with state infrastructure for our ports, our transport. Mr Santorinios said - and I will disprove him, because I will speak more as a Member, although half my origin is from the Dodecanese, from Karpathos, but I am also a Member, who has so many islands in my constituency - as well. We don't have to go far, Mr. Santorinier. If you go to Aegina, there's still water supplies that say there's no water supply. There are in Aegina, across the street, on the nearest island.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u209	There's nowhere else, Mr. Catasfado...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u210	Mr. Santorinier, you said you solved the problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u211	Except for Aegina, where?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u212	Don't interrupt, Mr. Santorinier!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u213	Mr. Santorinier, I have listened very carefully. But you will listen to me, because I here will tell truths.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u214	It's not an argument.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u215	Of course that is an argument. The aquifers continue to exist in many places. And you told us they didn't exist. Ladies and gentlemen, what we all have to understand is that these three financing instruments, not only the "NEARTHOSHOS" programme, which will help catalytically in the best process, everything that has to do with the barren lines... I'm reopening a parentheses. The barren lines were 90 million. We've reached 130 million. This year, we're giving 138 million. I'm reopening a second parentheses, if you'd like. Say a good, ladies and gentlemen, that during the pandemic there is no island that is cut off. There's not a single island. I can tell you examples of the government of SYRIZA, where Kythera, in my constituency, and these, for over six months, had no connection with Piraeus. Not even fifty years ago, this was not happening. Ladies and gentlemen, we'll say...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u216	Varvichiotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u217	It was yours, Mr. Dritsa.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u218	Let SYRIZA go!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u219	During your service, the Kythera had no boat for seven months. Is it the Varvichiotus' fault?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u220	Calm down, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u221	So, what's going on in this country...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u222	Easy, ladies.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u223	Should we go back? Should we go to King Otto, see who's to blame? At the government of SYRIZA there was a reality, dear Theodore. Over six months Kytheras were excluded from Piraeus. That's the reality. Today, in the pandemic, there is no island that is excluded. Not even one island is blocked. Isn't that something important, something serious, which has been done? You're asking us where we're going to get the money. We mentioned the Deposits and Loans, European, Community resources, the ESDP, the Public Investment Programme. Where else do we get the money? There are no other ways of finding the money, ladies and gentlemen. There are no 'leaf trees' as we have told you before. But you're telling us now to tell you the figures when we're making the tools so we can do it. You were so perfected, weren't you? You said some nice titles. May I remind you of your own titles? May I remind you what your offer was on the islands? May I remind you who increased 10% by the good morning's ticket? Let me remind you, who have now abolished it? May I remind you who did not fight and lost reduced rates of VAT? And we are trying to them - unfortunately, only to those - who have lifted the burden of immigration and restored this injustice. Other governments did it? You were the ones who had given these results, weren't you? Is the Island Entrepreneurship Fund wrong to support micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in their operating costs so that they can be viable and competitive? If the money is approved through this programme, that is where they will go, so that these small and very small businesses will not be closed down. Or is it not important for the Maritime and Blue Economy Fund to invest in innovation, shipbuilding, to be able to invest in the environment? How can we create conditions and conditions for islanders to stay on their islands? How can we convince Greek citizens to go to the islands and work, invest? This will be the success of the programme. There it will be judged whether the programme is successful or not, when the Greeks from the cities lead back to their islands, ladies and gentlemen. Of course, there are other things in the bill. I shall condemn the heroes of the Port House who have managed to reduce to 85% the flows of refugees and migrants in our country, where there are procedures for us to be able to deal with bureaucratic problems and procedures necessary to create appropriate conditions in the procurement divisions so that we do not live up to phenomena and situations, that the inflatable or incubator of the port cannot move, because there is no fuel, not to live such unacceptable situations, which were not spare and were stagnant and all the vehicles and all the means of the port were stopped. We've lived through them. We have all experienced these in our regions, our regions. You called the Port Authority and said, "Why can't the inflatable do the check?" And they said, "We don't have fuel." Wasn't that the answer? Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to go on because I do not have much time. I would, however, like to stress what has to do with the issue of pilots. Is this something new that we are doing or serving, as you say, other interests? What's the reality? Is the exemption applicable in most countries and most ports, the exemption, the exemption certificate? And you're talking about the Navigation Agency, which you, Mr. Santorinier, know, but also Mr. Dritsas, because you're watching the Ministry of Shipping, what kind of situation there is. And we are here to protect this whole story and do not look, as you say, how to privatise it, because, if we wanted to privatise it, we would not hire a new world or enter the process of bringing these new planes. That's the reality. But don't hide behind our finger. As far as RAL is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform the House that the letter from the President of the RAL was never notified to the Ministry of Trade Shipping. SYRIZA was notified. To have her, she was obviously notified. Isn't that right? SYRIZA was notified. [[Noise and protests from the wings of SYRIZA and the Communist Party of Greece]] The answer... Allow me. Allow me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u224	This is a disgrace.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u225	It shall report to the independent authority.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u226	Allow me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u227	Mr. Santorinier, don't interrupt. Mr. Santorinier, Mr. Dritsa, you have been ministers. That's not a situation.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u228	You're gonna scream even more with what I'm going to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u229	Let the Minister speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u230	Let me finish and you will protest even further with what I am about to say. The letter sent to the European Union was not communicated. The European Union has, however, sent the Ministry the answer it gave, which, of course, does not talk about fines. However, when we talk about independent authorities, I would like to ask a question if this President of the independent authority in question was placed there President to whom Minister and to which Ministry was a legal counsellor, to see our own children and your own children where they are. Ladies and gentlemen, an opportunity is given, a very great opportunity is given. Unfortunately, I do not have time to talk about Article 25. We abolished an article because we would have been condemned by the European Union for a law that you had brought from 2017 and had not implemented until 2019 when you left. What I mean to say is that on such crucial issues they must not fit into micro-political logic. We have been so hurt, and I am sure we can be given the opportunity to take the realism and the need that the country has to go forward. So let's leave the ideas and let's all work together.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u231	Mr President, I would like to speak, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u232	Mr Santorinier, as a parliamentary representative you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u233	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Katsafandos, in relation to Kythera, Mr. Varvitsiotis had excluded Kythera from the barren lines and, indeed, came to convince us...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u234	When did this happen?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u235	This was in 2015. So he came to convince us that, because he has five passengers all the time, they should not enter the barren lines. We brought it back. Now in relation to Aegina, we've gone ahead with the pipeline project. So that's where the aqueduct will stop. There's nowhere else in the water. Let's get this thing done with that fairy tale. But where you are revealing - and what you said was revealing, did the Minister not dare to say it - he said other things - is that you tell us that you are abolishing the Port Regulatory Authority because the President was before a Minister of SYRIZA? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Yes, it was, Mr. Catasfado. And I ask you: do you abolish the principles, the independent principles of vengeance? Is that your attitude? This is how you offend democratic institutions. That's how you want to run this country.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u236	I'll answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u237	You should answer that. But wait. And I ask you, because you are from Piraeus, Mr Katsafados: the letters that are currently being sent by the small-scale ship repairers, defended by the Port Regulatory Authority against the interests of 'COSCO', have you seen them? Will you talk about the small and medium-sized enterprise, which, today, with these choices, is condemned to confront the 'COSCO' uncontrolled, only because the President was appointed by SYRIZA? Honestly? And why didn't you change the president? Let's change the president. You've made so many diversions. Is that the problem? But your problem is that you want to give the private interests a shot. You did the same with ESAL, which, because he told you not about the choices of 'COSCO' you abolished and made it a governmental body. You did the same with the Public Port Authority, which you abolished.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u238	Please, Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u239	Mr. Undersecretary, Mr. Katasafados, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u240	Just a minute, Mr President, I will need to. Mr. Santorinier, Mr. Varvitsiotis said what had to do with the barren lines. I'm telling you that when a ship entered for inspection and came out in 2016-2017 he said he could not continue his course for Kythiras - here is Mr. Dritsas - and you could not do anything and for seven months he stayed the island unconnected.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u241	Two months...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u242	Seven. Well, now don't be fooled. Please very much. Ask Mr. Dritsa if he was two or seven. Secondly, did anyone say we're removing ral? What we have just said is that this confusion of competence should stop. We're not abolishing. We don't want to kick somebody out. And that shows our difference, Mr. Santorinier. We don't want to drive anyone out, but if you tell us that you're being cut because ral would be the guardian or this man would be the custodian of defending the public interest. Are we kidding, Mr. Santorinier? Who gave the port? Who gave the port of Piraeus to 'COSCO'? Your government didn't give it? The port of Thessaloniki, who gave it? Who privatized the port of Thessaloniki? Did the New Democracy Government privatize it?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u243	You've all voted together.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u244	Please very much. We don't have so short a memory in this country. Are you coming to defend what, Mr. Santorinier? Your signatures include the sale of the port of Piraeus and the sale of the port of Thessaloniki.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u245	Just a minute, Mr President, I want the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u246	Mr President, please, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u247	Mr. Dritsa, excuse me. Can I speak? Should I take permission to let me talk if I may? Firstly, it does not mean that there is the adversarial in every respect. I gave you comfort. I mean, we're not gonna do that Ping-Pong. So I cannot give the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u248	Mr President, I ask for the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u249	Mr. Drizza, there's no staff. Political positions are not personal. You'll talk later.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u250	Let me explain.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u251	No, the president has the ability to judge what is personal. There was nothing there either.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u252	He told me I was unreliable.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u253	He didn't say a word. I did not hear the word 'unreliable'. Take a minute then, because I didn't hear it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u254	Of course, he did.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u255	Here, you have the floor, Mr. Dritsa.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u256	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mr Katsafados, because in Piraeus we have a base, and you know it, and I know it, firstly, the President of ral and you want, you can't throw him out. That's why you're leaving him...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u257	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u258	Mr. Secretary, don't interrupt. Please warmly.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u259	No, you can't. He has a binding term. You're just depriving him of his responsibilities. Second, where the staff is. Mr President, as a government, and I personally received a disturbed situation in Kythira, precisely because my predecessor had an opinion expressed in Parliament that Kythiras does not need a maritime connection at all and that the grant, grant and fertile line had to be withdrawn. People and people are up. Transport has been interrupted for months and this situation, when, with our efforts, Mr President, we have corrected it - and I am not speaking to the domestic - I came down to the port of Kythera in the presence of Metropolitan, the Mayor, the actors of the city, the people of the city, with an unprecedented weather and the connection to a festival that was very honorable to me has been restored. And that's not forgotten by the Cheeriots.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u260	Good. You've heard, Mr. Dritsa.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u261	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u262	Look at something, Minister. If I don't give you the floor, you won't.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u263	(Secretary of State for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy): One second, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u264	For a minute, take the floor, but when I give it to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u265	I don't want to go on confronting, because...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u266	And please warmly, no personal reports, no names. Answer only politically, if you have anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u267	I do not want to go on confrontation, because we are talking here, in our view, about a very important reform and that is not a piracy. From there, however, only to remember, Mr Varvitsiotis had in mind, when he was Minister of Commercial Shipping, another process of routing, which, in the end, did not do so and, when SYRIZA came to power, continued the same situation. Sadly, however, when a ship was damaged, it could not be replaced and it spent seven months, it spent the summer and the Kytherios remained unconnected. That's the reality. I would remind you once again that it is not whether we can or cannot, Mr Driftsa. We don't want the president of ral to leave. We have no reason. As long as everyone does his job in the context of which he is placed. We're not going to get rid of any president of the RAL.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u268	Then why did you tell us he was unreliable?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u269	Ask, Mr Dritsa, who was the previous President of the RAL, how he left and what procedures! That's what I want to remind you of.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u270	After a hardship...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u271	He had an extension of office!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u272	Please, sir! The speaker of the New Democracy, Mr Maximos Sedetakis, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u273	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u274	Please, Mr. Dritsa, you don't sound. You don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u275	Mr President, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u276	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u277	Mr. Dritsa, you will have the floor from here to say what you want to say. Let a little talk to you, too. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems that it is in the fate of this government to do as often as the former did not do. What are we doing today? We do the self-evident thing. We are establishing an integrated island policy for the first time. I listen with interest to the concern of SYRIZA colleagues to defend their governmental work. Firstly, I should like to tell them that we were not only talking about them when we say it has not been done to date. Obviously, their government service is a past happily, but the country's past is not just their government service, thankfully again. Secondly, they do not understand that what they tell us to argue against the bill is exactly what we tell them that has not been done to date. All these policies they say, all the millions they have given from here and there are fragments. They do not, therefore, fall within a framework. That is why we are coming today to adopt an integrated island policy for the first time. And since I come from Crete, I can now assure you that yes, Crete is an island and so now it will be dealt with by the state, with what this implies. We will ask ourselves: "But is it possible for an island country such as Greece not to have an integrated island policy?" However, we have been going all these years, so our islands are deprived of important European funds and development instruments. This national delay is covered by the draft framework which the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy brings to the vote. Now and thanks to you, Minister and Minister, it will rightly be called 'insular policy'. Because, yes, for years we had a Ministry of Shipping, but we didn't have an island policy. Thus this draft law gives substance to a title which until now was unsubstantiated. Because, ladies and gentlemen, what island policy can we talk about when there are inertia funding programmes for island entrepreneurship? When unresolved issues of shipping, the Port Body and the workers remain? Where is there insufficient maritime service on the islands? And when in many of them, especially in small ones, is there also a lack of water? I am surprised to hear the Minister reveal that the European Union has funds to finance procedures to resolve these issues. The country, however, did not have any policies to claim these funds and implement specific development policies. "Show us your policy to finance it," the Europeans told us. Today the Ministry tables the framework law for its island policy. This is essentially a single text setting out the framework for shaping our national strategy. She will be present in six months from today and will have a five-year horizon. The results of this national strategy will be evaluated annually, with the relevant report from the Island Policy Council presented to the competent committee of Parliament. Every five years our strategy, if necessary, will be reassessed. The national strategy will set specific development objectives by sector: for port and maritime infrastructure, maritime transport, island competitiveness and entrepreneurship, maritime surveillance, employment and investment, digital governance and, of course, the tripartite 'health and welfare-training'. For the implementation of the strategy, two tools are laid down, the National Register of Maritime Economy Bodies and the Single Monitoring and Documentation Platform. However, ladies and gentlemen, none of this is done without money. This is where the financial programmes come in to fill the gap between funding and financing with three financial instruments. The first is the financing of public infrastructure, the so-called ‘NEARCHOS’ programme. Investment loans from the Ministry, the OTA, the port funds and port agencies are provided here with the Deposit and Loan Fund. The loan will be financed by the national or co-financed part of the Ministry of Transport's Public Investment Programme. The second tool is the Island Entrepreneurship Finance Program. This is a specific support programme for small and micro-enterprises active in the maritime economy. The project is managed and implemented by the Hellenic Development Bank S.A... The third financial instrument is the Maritime and Blue Economy Fund. Here are financed from national and European resources innovative actions of maritime, maritime and shipbuilding equipment, the development of information and communication applications. Ladies and gentlemen, by the way, this bill also regulates issues of the juncture, providing for a series of provisions that regulate problems that pandemic has caused our seafarers. The most important thing, however, is that for the first time the Greek state has decided to give serious consideration to the problems of our islands and islands. For the first time, fragmentary provisions and policies are being brought together and form a single island policy. For the first time, the island policy has a single scope, which is all islands, without exceptions. Neither Evia nor Lefkada nor, of course, Crete is excluded from the transport equivalent. That is why, as I said at the beginning, I feel very happy as a Cretan. Crete is also a typical island and so will now be treated by the state, without exceptions and with respect for the important role it has for the country, both economic and geopolitical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u278	Thank you, Mr. Sedetakis, for it was accurate in time, until I hadn't been able to close the bell. I will give the floor to the Member of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Maria Konnakkas for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u279	Thank you, Mr President. What does the government mean when it speaks of a maritime and island policy, for which it cultivates false expectations for islanders? The majestics have said that the life of the islanders is changing, that historical incision is being created to strengthen islands. What, really, is this incision? The multiplication of subsidies and facilities to shipowners? But this kind of aid has not been missing either from you or from previous governments. You are horrific about the increased subsidies you give every year for barren lines to ensure - you say - adequate and safe maritime transport. But neither is this finally translated into a facilitator for islanders. Apart from the fact that transport costs remain very expensive, I should like to list a number of islands - so that you do not compete with SYRIZA and New Democracy for who left the Kythira more time away - and I should like to tell you so many Aegean islands that every year live like a bad joke to change or retire, leaving them for days without connection or some hours' journeys to eventually turn into a cruise across the Aegean Sea with all kinds of sapiacarava. Of course, sometimes the routes are safe and they come precisely to their destination when they are going to serve other kinds of investors, such as the 'green' development you are planning for the islands. An example is Tinos, where they arrived at night and with absolute secrecy wind turbulents, so that they do not become aware of the people who react to the serious environmental, social and economic consequences of such an installation on the island. For you, therefore, the needs of the islanders are exhausted in subsidising shipowners, energy groups, transport and tourism groups. For these are the financial instruments for the NEARCHOS programme of the Ministry of Shipping, as is the case with all the aids from the European Union's Recovery Fund, which have been predetermined by the recipients since the beginning. Even this fig sheet delivered to you by SYRIZA as a banner to enhance islandity, the so-called 'transport equivalent', and this eventually worked as an indirect reinforcement of the shipowners, while at the same time the cost of transport and tickets was evacuated. It was even presented as a compensation for the abolition and the minimum facility the islanders had achieved, the reduced rates of VAT, which was even a minimum relief for people's income, the cost of production of agricultural products, in a series of daily needs. Even so, you have considered this unnecessary exit for the state and have thrown it along with the other unspeakable tax burdens on the backs of workers, bio-paid workers and professionals. Keep it as a comfort and the suffering of the drop of six months on the islands that raise the burden of managing the refugee. Of course, such measures are not enough to tackle the deadlocks in which workers, bio-patient farmers, self-employed professionals, all of these island residents, who are not included in the recipients of large aid to maritime and island development. The main thing, however, is not that you also offer any facilities at times for the inhabitants of the islands, but that they have never been substantial, never covered what is really supposed to mean supporting islands, namely covering all the needs of islands, so that they do not face additional difficulties in their daily lives due to their distance from the mainland. Support means full staffing of all public health structures with the necessary personnel, equipment and infrastructure. It cannot be considered, for example, luxury staffing with critical specialties, even the existence of ICU beds, at least in the large islands, when distance and weather are often forbidden for the crossing of patients. Support means meeting the needs of education with all the necessary educational staff, with modern infrastructure. What is your insular policy when, for example, the students of Samos remain away from schools why was the earthquake not resolved yet? It seems to have been lost on the barren lines and these containers, the inappropriate ones - we say - for school rooms that they promised during their visit to the island in the first few days, the Undersecretary, saying that they will be sent immediately, even as a temporary solution to the problem. Of course, this temporary solution is adopted as a permanent for the accommodation of classes of all educational levels, even when it concerns pupils with special needs, for example with the Special Training Laboratory in Lesvos. On the contrary, support for islands means full service of necessary services, that is to say, not to have to travel - many times and many days - between islands for access to important services, taxes, courts and others. It also means strengthening and not closing stores in ELTAs, leading even more to isolation but also to privatising such basic services. So will the lives of the islanders be changed? Not a word of this is provided for in your so-called 'blue' and 'green' development. In any case, the indifferent investment programmes will be directed towards the creation of vital projects and infrastructures, to anti-military, anti-Semitism projects, which so far have been firmly found to be ineligible by all governments and, above all, by the European Union for the direction of financial instruments, why do they not generate profits, with known and painful consequences for the people, not just, unfortunately, for the islands? For the world of the toil of the city and the countryside, hope is not in the designs of the "blue" and "green" capitalist development, that is, the one that passes above its broken working, insurance rights, above the dissolution of its modern self-evident needs. It is in the opposite bank, in the power behind their organization and struggle, to turn the creations of socially produced wealth back to these own creators. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u280	Well done, you were accurate in time. With your consent of Mr Kegeroglu taking the floor, because - as explained to me - he has an obligation as Secretary of the Change Movement Parliament to participate in an undeclared teleconferencing conference. Therefore, Mr Kegeroglu, you have the floor, but I want you to keep the time of seven minutes, because you are usually derogating.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u281	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank my colleagues too. We have already followed a ping-pong in the well-known political framework that is trying to create a government and a Civic Opposition, on the basis of the complaints filed by the Chief of Officerial Opposition against journalists. The right of politicians and politicians to protect their honor and reputation is a given one and without debate. From this, however, the point until they are subjected without trial to actions with huge financial sums, leading to the fall of journalists, is far away. And in the past, you should know that you have denounced as SYRIZA actions against journalists made from various aspects, whether from business or from other policies. Today I would like to begin with a reference to the loss of our strain, the fighter of the anti-digit fight and democracy, of Sfi Valyrakis. I mentioned yesterday - I had the opportunity - to this tragic event. Today I would like to ask the Minister - who has already expressed his will - to look at the complaint or the request, if you wish, in order to fully clarify the fact and the circumstances under which the former Minister died. I think it is an obligation and I think it will also be a last vindication for this man, who at sea - who was the road to his freedom, when he escaped from Corfu prisons - at the same time found death and the way to the great journey. But today is a day of memory for the Holocaust. It should be said that it is not only today that memory should be, but every day, because racism, xenophobia, fascism, Nazism, all that is manifested in various ways are issues that must be rooted out of our minds and our perceptions to create modern democratic societies that respect humans and lead to progress. Today we are discussing a bill that has a great goal, having titles that it is difficult to refuse to adopt, but at the same time the titles are not satisfied with the content and provisions. I would remind you, Minister, that eighteen months ago, in the programme statements on the national strategy and development of the islands, you said everything with these provisions you are legislating today after eighteen months. You do not legislate on the implementation of the announcements, but the announcement itself and the question is this. If it takes five hundred and fifty days, minus - because I forgot to wish you good power beyond and had the opportunity to talk about the difficult days - of the hard days, it is five hundred days to come to legislate on the titles - that is the sad - without timetables and without any provision for a specific financial framework for how they will be implemented. Ideas, declarations, policy titles, but without policies, without content and concrete actions. But that's not all. There's a centralized perception of your prolongation. All the powers of the government, the Prime Minister, the Ministers, and all the collective development institutions, without understanding of the regional dimension and without any sign of decentralisation of functions and decisions. You are talking about sectors, individual policies, but not regions, regional development, not island complexes and islands. A decentralised development policy, with respect to local communities, should provide for every island region and every island with concrete plans and amounts, giving them the opportunity and the opportunity to decide on their own development for tomorrow. The bill defines the scope for all the islands of Greece - it is a good point - but there is nothing specific to be implemented. What will be applied is missing. There are titles, but not implementation programmes and concrete measures. Only with specific policies, however, specific measures can result in an island policy. And here I would like, on the one hand, to disprove the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Brutsi, who, once again, was uninformed or false? Let's choose what he wants. He said, with emphasis, 'not even the Change Movement tabled proposals'. Who? The Change Movement, which only suggests. That's our feature! I should like to call on the Minister to accept the amendment we have tabled, an amendment with the first signatory to our President, for a reduced rate of VAT of 30% on all islands and in addition on the smaller islands, with a population of less than a thousand two hundred inhabitants, a reduced rate of VAT of 60%. The reduced rate of VAT for the islands is not only economic. It's a measure of development, social, patriotic. It can stir up demographic turbulence and strengthen the purchasing power of the local population, the competitiveness of the tourist product and, above all, keep the inhabitants in the small islands. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u282	And that's what you're closing down with, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u283	In this regard, the PASOK had established it. The SYRIZA of false progression abolished it for the sake of the memorandum, the antimony SYRIZA, to remind you. After the uproar of the islands it was only kept on certain islands because of migration. He says now Metarakis and says that there is no immigration. You know what's gonna happen. What is the excuse today, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u284	Close, no more now, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u285	I'm hanging up, I'm hanging up. Transport equivalent...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u286	You're closing, but you're not closing!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u287	I'm closing up, I'm doing it now, because we had a minute at the beginning for the general report. The transport equivalent founded it, probably institutionalized it, SYRIZA lacking. You deceived it the first day. Now he's getting even more lazy. It is not all about strengthening a local economy. For example, as I said, fuel. In Crete, Mr Sedetakis has not left too - the application is in one quarter.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u288	No more time, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u289	I know. I shall therefore conclude, Mr President, by saying that it has rules which solve problems, but it also has arrangements for shipowners. At work you make them comfortable for the big and relieve fines in an unprecedented way. Has the Ministry of Labour consented to this? At least I think, if it were Mr. Brutsis, he wouldn't have consented. Would Mr. Brutsi have signed the bill? It's a question, I want to know. Because a five-and-a-half fine for the whole ship with a hundred people inside, when you have to pay 5,000 and 10,000, depending on the violations, I think it's a charismatic policy, and that's not allowed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u290	The reason is now that the Member of the New Democracy, Mr Panagis Kapatos, shortly after the SYRIZA MP - the Progressive Alliance Mr.Ioannis Ragousis, and then Ms. Bakada as the Parliamentary Representative of Mera25. Mr. Cappato, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u291	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, which we are discussing, gives us an excellent opportunity, an opportunity to make a real contribution to this necessary debate on a new public policy on island, sea and blue development. Because the figures and data, ladies and gentlemen, allow us to see both the environment and the conditions under which we legislate today, it is worth seeing what is happening to date. 18.7% of the total surface area of our country consists of islands with a population of 15.1% of the total domestic population. The constitutional provisions of Articles 101 and 106 oblige us to adopt an integrated maritime policy in the island area. At European level, the Treaty of Lisbon recognises the need to distinguish development assistance into specific categories of space, in order to facilitate the establishment of an open and competitive system. This is what we are talking about today. This is nothing other than the maritime economy and blue development, an area of public policy in which, probably unjustified to date, a secondary role has been assigned. The draft law on an integrated maritime policy in the island area seems to change something. Something changes with the adoption of a coherent framework of island policy, which makes use of the development prospects of our islands and ensures the economic, social and territorial cohesion of the island area. At the same time we are establishing the national strategy for integrated maritime policy in the island area. With it drafted every five years and evaluated for its effectiveness annually, it is important that it concerns all island regions, regions with island complexes, as well as the individual islands. Apart from geographical reference, a number of activities related to the maritime economy are included in this initiative. Port policy, maritime infrastructure, maritime transport and maritime safety are only few of the areas covered by the national strategy for integrated maritime policy. In fact, the General Secretariat of the Aegean and Island Policy is set up by the National Register of Marine Economy, where institutions related to it can be registered. Another tool introduced by this draft law is the Single Monitoring and Documentation Platform in the fields of the national strategy. This platform provides the opportunity for a full picture of the efficiency of the innovations we introduce. In any case, it is the financial programmes that act as a driving force and development tools in the context of the new maritime policy. This is a toolbox, which meets the essential needs of public policy within the framework of three financial programmes. The first, under the heading 'NEARCHOS', relates to the financing of projects of a public nature, including in the fields of port infrastructure and facilities, an important intervention by definition, particularly for small and remote islands. The second tool is the Island Entrepreneurship Finance Program, a tool necessary to address market difficulties caused by geographical isolation, burdening island companies. The aim is to provide a range of financing to enterprises facing objective problems and operating in the maritime economy. The third financial instrument is that of the Maritime and Blue Economy Fund, aimed at financing actions for the development and promotion of innovative entrepreneurship. In conclusion, the tripartite "insularity, maritime economy, blue growth" is the structural element of the new island policy, a policy that the country finally acquires. In the third chapter of the draft law, we regulate issues relating to our seafarers and maritime education. As a Member of Parliament from the islands and a seafarer's place, I am particularly sensitive to areas that concern us precisely. At a time when the coronary pandemic affects national economies and societies, the Greek shipping and its people, who work in difficult conditions, deserve and need our support. See, for example, the suspension of shipping agreements for the months of January and February of the year in which we are going. Today our seafarers are benefiting from special purpose compensation and they are provided with insurance and health cover, a fair, moral and life-threatening measure for workers in the industry. Now, with the articles on education issues, it is important to highlight the work and the needs of maritime education, much more at a time when the conditions made education imperative for distance learning. We are therefore called upon to facilitate distance learning by sea, allowing for the modification of the rules of study for the implementation of distance learning. We also have to understand the specificities of the health crisis, making teaching and learning processes, supplying the necessary electronic equipment and providing support services simpler and faster. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as an island county, Kefalonia has the privilege of hosting one of our country's Navy Academys. After all, the place of the great Nikos Kavadia and Ioannis Foka could not be left from the map of our naval education. I take the initiative from the Step of the Greek Parliament to ask you, Minister, following your last visit to the island last October, to support the further development of maritime education in our country. We are at your disposal, in the context of a joint effort, to take shipping to our islands one more step forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u292	Thank you, too, for keeping time. The speaker of SYRIZA has the floor - the Progressive Alliance Mr. Ioannis Ragussis for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u293	Thank you very much, Mr President. So far, we have had no case, thanks to the diligent work the gentlemen are doing here for our health. Ladies and gentlemen, briefly and briefly: a great deal has been said of us. Both our parliamentary representative, Mr Santorinios and our rapporteur, Mr Michaelides, but also MEPs from all parties, have tabled a large number of arguments, which are clearly focused on specific points and makes sense. You will allow me to say a few thoughts about this bill, addressing the colleagues of the New Democracy, saying in particular that I consider this bill to be the New Democracy bill - a break in the New Democracy, Mr Placiotakis, with the real economy, which lives and develops in and around the ports, in Piraeus, and not just. It is a bill of breaking the New Democracy with a vast majority of small and medium-sized enterprises in the ports, inside and out of the ports. It is a New Democracy breaking bill with tens of thousands of workers in shipping, ports and around them. Let's not go far. The pilots today made 100% participation of a completely justified strike. Ship repairers are in an excellent position of reaction and refusal to what you are institutionalizing today. The shipowners have already manifested their reaction. Thousands of workers, tens of thousands of seafarers, who are being informed by hour, by mouth and by mouth, about what you are voting on today, are hearing New Democracy and are now telling you that they will never forget what you are voting on tonight. Why? Why are you supposed to be the party - what party? - the free economy, you are supposedly the party of healthy competition, you are allegedly the party of the middle-class, this small- and medium-sized entrepreneurship, you are supposedly the party that cares for the workers. What is actually happening today, when you vote for all these provisions here? This is the case, not as far out of Parliament, but the closer one comes to the ports of the country. And to speak a little more specifically, to make myself even more comprehensible with this particular example. Let's take the case of Piraeus. What were the social demands of the time? It is a crucial question for all of you New Democracy MPs tonight, who will vote by roll-call vote on this bill. Can I talk to you? The first key social demand is that the real economy of the ports from the monopolistic trend of 'COSCO' cannot be left unprotected, which is growing day after day and manifests the unfavorable mood and intends to leave nothing around, nothing Greek, nothing small, nothing small, nothing related to Greek entrepreneurship and, of course, also to workers working in it. And also, with great intensity, the request arises from the real Piraeus economy, for a long time now, that the COSCO cannot receive 16% of the PPA, since it has not fulfilled its contractual obligations, has not completed the compulsory investments provided for in the concession contract. The second major social demand: Open the port economy to competition. Let her breathe. Let her drop the prices. Let other companies, competitors, who want to enter these fields of entrepreneurship and economic action, be able to enter. Let the prices fall for the users, for the benefit of the citizens. And this evening the Mitsotakis Government comes and in front of these social demands, what kind of bill does it bring, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple? Firstly, it maintains by law - it makes you vote on this - the monopoly on waste management, that is to say it retains the monopoly on waste management, excluding all those who want to be involved in this economic activity and tells them that by the end of the year by 31 December, no one will step on the ground here, one company will continue to manage the solid waste of ships. What else does the Mitsotakis - Placiotakis government say with today's bill? It says another thing: if there was an institution, an independent authority to protect it from monopolistic practices, attitudes and intentions of 'COSCO' and this is what you are saying tonight. She's nothing but ral. That is what you are doing tonight, literally handing over all economic activity as if it were its exclusive right to 'COSCO' and at the same time doing something third - which has been told to you by many fellow Members from all the parties - you are doing this work vulgarity, actually turning the green light on a shipowner again to continue to mistreat the seafarers. The penalty you're going to impose on him is nothing, nothing. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr Placiotakis, please go - and I shall end, Mr President, in seconds - to a family of seamen after what you will vote on tonight and speak to the children of these seamen who will not be able to see their fathers. And when they ask 'Why, Father, can't see you?', their father will tell them 'Why, my child, I can't leave the ship, because there's no law to protect me, because no one imposes a fine on anyone for this illegal overtime work'. I would like to say a word: Mr Placiotakis, neither a COSCO official, nor a single-sale company, who exploits the solid waste of the boats, would dare not have come to this Parliament tonight and introduced these vulgar and disgusting provisions that you are introducing tonight against the real economy of ports, against thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises, against tens of thousands of workers! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u294	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u295	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u296	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u297	Mr Ragosi, ladies and gentlemen, I have very clearly explained the framework under which the European regulation operates. I understand that you are new to Piraeus, you do not know the issues of the port, and it seems that the dusts, which they gave you, did not give you the reality or the truth about this particular issue. You should know, because you systematically try to distort the truth. But what is the truth? That, with our legislative initiative, the port services market is opening up. Ask Mr. Bukkoro if the Volos has started procedures. Patra is next, Igoumenitsa is followed by Thessaloniki. I explained very well that Law 352/2017 begins with full liberalisation of port services and under certain terms and conditions it can reach another. That's the regulation. Do you know him? Read the regulation first and then come here and talk about it. Mr Ragossi, and I'm finishing with this, don't judge the odds yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u298	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u299	Mr President, I ask for the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u300	Mr Ragosisi, you have no say. There's not a minute. Mr. Buquoir, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u301	But the weird ones themselves?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u302	Don't protect the Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u303	I can't give you the floor. Don't make me difficult, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u304	The problem is not with me, you have it with the people of the ports.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u305	Mr. Buquoir, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u306	Thank you, Mr President. It is true that the catastrophe for a bill of good repurchased this evening and, of course, by executives - generally and not only for Mr Ragosi - who, as a opposition, were creating incidents in Piraeus for the concession to 'COSCO', then as a government, signed the concession as 'COSCO' and today they are starting a revolution, Mr Minister, again for 'COSCO', again from the seat of the counter-population. As for Article 25 and waste management, ask Volos to see what happened. In any case, it is clear, ladies and gentlemen, since the harmonisation procedures with the European regulation have begun, that they will be extended until 31 March. So, let's leave a void of management? What happens in these cases? How will waste management be done? Who's going to take responsibility? I think it's clear. However, I think that the main body of the bill today is on other issues, in the longer term, which concern us all, about the country's existence, about addressing and strengthening islands. In fact, Minister, I have listened with sympathy to you in almost self-sufficient tone of commenting on the budget of the Ministry of Public Investment, which, in fact, for a country of shipping and sea, for a state of the sea, for a state of the sea, EUR 4,500,000 for the Public Investment Programme is a very small amount. Without wanting to trot you - to use an expression of our youth - I would say, Minister, that the policy is moving your ideas and this bill here today serves the idea of islands in Greece, in Greece, in the multinational Greece, where 80% of the population lives in the coastal zone and a very large part of the population on our islands. This is a very great idea, which goes beyond any budget, because it lays the foundations to strengthen the idea of islandity. Besides, Minister, you are very well aware that the Treaty of Lisbon, and in particular Article 154, imposes economic aid policies and development policies for both islands and mountain regions. What is it, ladies and gentlemen, our country? Islands, rock islands and mountain tumors, minimal from our territory, are fertile and lowland soil. We therefore have to draw up such policies. And these policies are neither drawn up nor financed if the tools do not exist. I am very pleased, Minister, that your bill today creates three tools, such as the 'NEARTH', for the public infrastructure of our islands. The ports are damaged, our islands are detached from networks, transport of energy, technologies, all these issues must find ways of financing, and you indicate with your bill here a summary of a contract with the Deposit and Loan Fund. I think that 'Newarkhor' will provide solutions because, ladies and gentlemen, the islands are not excluded from any other programme of public investment or European programmes financed. There's an additional tool coming in. Why is he coming? Because it is based on the specificity of islands. Also, Minister, the Island Entrepreneurship Finance Program is something more, no island is excluded from the NSRF or from any other financial instrument. Entrepreneurship, as they want support and networks, as they want support and local lines especially in summer months. We need to strengthen these lines to interconnect our islands, because that is how we create great value in our tourist product and give our visitors greater potential. So, ladies and gentlemen, this bill today comes up as a sum of ideas, aiming at this particular feature of our country - which is as strong as possible and has led to weakness - to return to the forefront and to exploit it. That's exactly the goal of the bill. Another financial instrument is the Maritime and Blue Economy Fund, which can be financed from national and European resources. In other words, they are multi-source financing instruments. Flexibility will be given to the functioning of these tools and great potential. And I imagine that the next step should be the motives for the islands where the population has shrinked, Minister, or even for the islands that had life in the past decades and today are uninhabited. We must motivate young people, stimulate the presence and entrepreneurship there too. And the motives themselves aren't enough. It is also the infrastructure of the 'newarshOS' project. Because these are the most advanced prisoners of territory and Hellenism. This great advantage, which has become a disadvantage, must be reversed and reinstated. I also speak to you as a member of the Terrestrial Regional Unit, Magnesia, but in its administrative boundaries there are three inhabited islands - Skiathos, Skopelos and Alonissos - and much more uninhabited and the Northern Sporades Sea Park. It's three islands completely different. And, of course, the Skiathos of great tourist development may not need the tools provided for in your bill. It is certain, however, that Skopelos and Alonissos need such tools and much more. Therefore, I do not understand why, instead of joining forces here, we are adding ideas - why our islanders are watching us with anguish - to try to improve even more this very good tool, we are trying to cancel it. This is not how Greece goes forward or where islands do not appear. And he's a strict judge of all our next generations. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude in a minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u307	No, Mr. Colleague, in a minute. Finish 'cause we've been talking in seven minutes. Close with the last sentence.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u308	I close with this proposal, saying, Mr Minister, 'Continue', because ideas in politics continue to count. Whatever anyone says, these are the vehicle, so we can go forward. And this bill takes a step forward to safeguarding, highlighting and exploiting islands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u309	Thank you, too. Let me say that they are still twenty-five colleagues. The Parliamentary Representative of Mera25, Mrs Fotini Bakadama, has the floor now, and immediately thereafter the Parliamentary Representative of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Karathanasopoulos. And I would remind you again - and that is why we have said that there are still twenty-five colleagues. That is why I want time to be observed. Hot request. You have the floor, Mrs. Bakadima.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u310	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have been discussing this morning and we will be discussing the next hours a draft law introduced by the Ministry of Shipping, which aims, according to the Minister and the team which has been responsible for this, to create an integrated maritime policy that will increase the competitiveness of Greek shipping and island entrepreneurship. And one can only agree that there is a huge need, in order to have an integrated maritime policy, to strengthen competitiveness but also to develop our islands. But it is indeed a great goal, as the Minister has already pointed out at the meetings of the committee. However, is it achieved? Are we finally reaching the goal of the law? Let us see some points so that we can have a clear picture of all of us and also our fellow citizens who are listening to us or who will listen to the debate later. Let's go to Port Community System, i.e. the creation of an information system for data reporting, which will come to help interconnect and interoperability and be accessible through gov.gr. I have to say from the outset that it is a positive move. Nevertheless, we regard it as a PARTA25 as highly pretext. Why am I saying that? Because the interconnection will be carried out by the ADP, which should be renamed to an ADP, to a Dependent Public Revenue Authority, because we all know very well that it is only not independent. It is not only a state supervisory body, but it is necessary to change the overall policy mix as far as the management of information systems is concerned, which is currently not in the hands of the Greek state but also in general in the sale of the ports and property of the country. Example of a sale? The ‘COSCO’. Today, too many colleagues have referred to it. About two months ago we sent a letter from 'COSCO', which was responsible for the delays and opened up the issue of the transfer of 16% of the majority package that is missing. Although the planned projects, compulsory investments, there are too many doubts whether and when they will be completed. Although 'COSCO' continues to act as a clear colonist, and even if we say that it had all gone well, it had not only been compatible with four or five investments, it had all been completed, it was all well, the problem is, you know, ladies and gentlemen, in itself selling the port, not just Piraeus, in general. It is not the case, therefore, whether or not COSCO has complied with its obligations. This is part of the issue. The question is that in total you all consented and voted - with the exception of the Communist Party of Greece - to sell the port to 'COSCO'. It also remains open, as far as COSCO is concerned, the issue of Problem 4, of the pier that will come to function as the Container Terminal in the place where Car Terminal, which will now be transferred to Drapetsona, occupying a piece of the ship repair zone, without anyone considering that it is actually destroying both the zone and the businesses and the people living from it. We have, of course, seen many reactions. Today, references have been made to the 'COSCO' letter and to 16%. You know, the only ones who can react - I'm talking about the parties that were in the House in 2016 - are the JRC because they voted against it. All the rest of you agreed. All the rest of you voted for it. The concession contract was signed by a large majority. So reacting to SYRIZA today, the SYRIZA who opened the sales door is the least hypocritical and we should be honest, at least among us. Believe me, I understand wholeheartedly and with great respect the need for SYRIZA colleagues to understand the left, what is left of it, their conscience, but understand it and admit it now that you, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, have impoverished the middle-class, made the small and medium-sized, the poorer, open the door of the dive. You sold out the port of Piraeus. And now only you're communicating to try to be the protectors of the citizens, the businessmen, the unions, the federations. Unfortunately, no one can forget either your 'yes', the 'no' you made 'yes', or your signatures in the fourth memorandum, nor the tear gas that you threw in April 2016 on the harvested port workers to protest at the sale. In addition, 67% were planned to go to 'COSCO' under your concession agreement. So when we discuss whether 16% will now be given, I agree that New Democracy is wrongly doing so. But tell me frankly, so, by hand in the heart: If you were the ministers of the New Democracy, what would you do differently? Would you say that at the time you signed, but now you get your signature back? You have no reputation, nor can you convince anyone that you can come into rupture and undo your signatures. Of course, no one is saying that the New Democracy is unjustified. It has its own responsibilities, it does not have all the responsibilities. Now let's go quickly to the bill, to be consistent with my time. Theoretically we have a complete program of island entrepreneurship that will help and stimulate local businesses. In fact, a development framework must now be orchestrated and created. Only we do not see reference being made to strengthening existing infrastructures, such as schools, health centres, services or accessibility. So, if we think that we are in the midst of managing the coronary pandemic and obligate smaller islands to go, not only to get vaccinated, but even to have their medicines examined or treated, on larger islands near the islands, how can we talk about blue growth and the development of island entrepreneurship? With communication provisions for reassurance on the islands? The problems, ladies and gentlemen, are real and we should really come to them and discuss how we can really solve them. The Government of Nea Demoaatic Republic is constantly stressing the importance of intensification of shipping and the competitiveness of the Greek register. Indeed, this should be done. But what did we not see in your draft law? No real support to seafarers from the seafarers and their replacements who have been unemployed because of the pandemic, because they cannot be changed. We see no care for the delays we have in retirement, with people losing their lives and not yet getting the one thing we should have done. No references to cases of seafarers who are suspended and some have not yet received the aid, the grant of October, November and December. With all these problems unresolved and virtually untouched, will we come to discuss genuinely and seriously a blue development? I cannot stand up to the certificate of exemption from navigation so that they can enter our ports and leave ships without the assistance of a pilot. An extremely important issue, which cannot be ensured that it does not cause accidents and accidents in the future. In conclusion, I will stand by the two amendments. The first is the violation and sanctions applied when we have a breach of working and rest periods of seafarers. An amendment which comes to legislate on the drastic reduction of fines, by hitting the back and by closing the eye, if you like, to the few-gauge offenders, which we shall of course vote against. It is not enough to justify that it is because of the pandemic and we are trying to improve the situation a little. It is a clear move to strengthen the oligarchs, who choose to use the workers as pawns and as a lever of profit. The second amendment concerns the substantial adaptation, abolition of RAL's responsibilities. It is extremely interesting that you choose to bring it at this time when we have the demands of 'COSCO', outstanding decisions of RAL for the entry coupon, one stop service and many other open issues. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, we will be here to monitor in the long term what your attitude and options will have, because the changes you legislate open the door to changes and to the concession agreement with the scoffing of RAL's responsibilities. Apart from that, in addition to 'COSCO', the ban on the payment of navigable rights, the general sale of ports and everything else, we also see the introduction of exemptions for shipping and maritime surveillance from the obligation to submit environmental studies. Do what you can, that is, to serve once again the domestic oligarchy. And that, believe me, no longer gives us any impression. Neither is this nor the fact that strategically you choose not to react and do what the residents ask not only of Keratini and Drapetsonas but all of Piraeus. Go ahead and transfer the industrial activities outside the residential web. You deliberately and deliberately leave the "OIL ONE" where it is, deliberately and deliberately drown the inhabitants in benzene and the carcinogens, deliberately and voluntarily close the eyes and put them above all the profits of Mr. Melissanidis and the "OIL ONE". I conclude by saying: you consider your bill, Minister, to be a great deal of money. It is not great, it is great, and as long as you do not put the interests of the citizens above the interests of entrepreneurs, you will always find us against you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u311	Thank you, Mrs Bakadimas, and thank you for keeping time. I would ask that the Stepma be prepared in order for the parliamentary representative of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, to speak. Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u312	Thank you, Mr President. We have followed a controversy between the Government and SYRIZA on who progressed first in an integrated maritime strategy and insularity, whether it was the Government of New Democracy or whether SYRIZA proceeded with such a political choice, in other words, who was the inspiration of these choices. Here you will allow me to remember a popular saying, the timelessness of which also highlights popular wisdom, with all due respect, of course, to the favourite quadrupeds. "Two donkeys were fighting in a foreign barn." And why am I saying that? Because the results of the policies implemented by all the governments - and today - are experienced by islanders every day. The deterioration of their living conditions, the problems faced by workers in the islands, the professionals, farmers and fishermen, who do not know whether they will be able to put the chowl on fire, the enormous deficiencies that exist, despite being island areas, in health, education, infrastructural deficiencies that are very important, even in ports that cannot be approached by ships, when it has a few boats, the major problems that exist in the island connection with expensive transport for islands and those who want to visit the islands, whether in the interconnection with mainland Greece or between the islands. Many absurds we have watched when they have to go from island to island. From the Ionian, that is, to go from Zakynthos to Corfu, which is also the district's seat, you have to go to mainland Greece and there take the car and reach Igoumenitsa, if you can't take the plane that exists at intervals, whenever that exists. Is the government policy responding to these issues with the integrated maritime strategy on islands? No, of course not. He's not answering these problems. After all, there is not a single reference in the bill to these issues. So what does this policy answer? It responds to the needs of business groups, in particular the logistics capital, the capital that operates in the field of tourism or energy. The government creates a number of tools to enable the capitalists to benefit from the financial packages of the European Union's Development and Resilience Fund and the new NSRF, but which do not come with the indebtedness in Greece, are conditional on the promotion of restructuring, unpopular restructuring, and even greater liberalisation in the labour market and in a number of other sectors. From this point of view, the 'hot money' that the government intends to manage for the benefit of business groups is done by sacrificing the rights of workers, the rights of the new generation, all of our people. But the dialogue between the government and the Civic Opposition and other parties that had ruled, such as KINAL, was not only for the integrated plan, but also for the barren lines. Imagine we're talking in 2021 about barren lines. SYRIZA accused the Government of subsidizing the barren lines, while the Government and the Members of the New Democracy said that no island was left in the midst of a pandemic. Slowly feat! You say that in 2021? And for what? The fact that there was an elementary connection between the islands and not the necessary one. And all that with the non-injurious for the ferry companies, paying the ferry companies. And this was the case for who gave most of the money to the shipowners, as if this money were not out of the pocket of the workers, the self-employed, the professionals, the farmers, who are closely related to taxation. So the bill that the government brings for discussion today, and the first part as well as the rest, is cut and sewn to the needs of shipowners. The Minister claimed during his speech that in her policy the government wants to support seafarers. In fact, there is also Article 16, entitled 'Support measures for maritime work'. Do you really believe that thing? Or are you trying to cover up, presenting black white, that the measures you take are at the expense of seafarers? Is Article 16 there not the suspension of seafarers' contracts there? And in the name of what thing as a counterbalance? A charity allowance. Didn't you, as a government, have you, in fact, brought in the summer of 2020 the abolition of collective agreements in seagoing shipping? Why did you do that? To make seafarers working in seagoing shipping even cheaper, the appetite of the shipowners also opened up in such a process. Have governments over time not changed organic compositions in ships? There have been repeated changes in organic compositions, resulting in the intensification of workers, the release of working hours, the accidents and the deaths recorded on ships. In fact, the government reaches the point of the unexpected fine, which the previous governments had, of the EUR five hundred per case, if the hour is not observed, to make it a thousand euros per boat and not per case. Are you serious? That's the whistle flies. It is like saying in other words, ladies and gentlemen of the government, to the shipowners: "Crack the hours, step up the work of seafarers, so that you can pay a thousand euros." Eggs, when shipowners make unstoppable profits from this process! And that is the paradox, which is, of course, not only in the days of the New Democracy Government, but also of the previous governments: the shipowners should build annually, whether by buying used vessels or building new ships of tens of billion euros, and at the same time, jobs being reduced, more seafarers being unemployed. Of course, all these issues are tied up through the logic of safeguarding precisely the interests of shipowners for even cheaper workers and not just. A number of other articles are not only gifts, but more toward logistics, such as Article 22 for the navigation certificate, which in essence you are giving the first and second captains the right to take a navigation certificate and do not need the Navigation Service. So what do you think? This option, to say differently, who serves: Does it serve the safety of maritime transport or serve the profitability of shipowners? The second, the profitability of the shipping companies. So you do not hesitate to play the dice, gentlemen of the government, the safety of maritime transport, just for capitalists to win. And, of course, you are moving on with other provisions on deforestation and the slightest obstacle relating to environmental protection, the protection of public health, human rights by enterprises operating in the maritime economy. They have also been mentioned by the spokesmen of the JRC and by the rapporteur very specific examples. The deforestation of the responsibilities of the Port Regulatory Authority is even more part of this process. The position of the JRC is known for the independent authorities. As a party, we oppose the creation of independent authorities, because they are state authorities. Except that governments transfer these responsibilities and responsibilities to the authorities, so that anti-grassroots policy can be implemented and that the government is not accountable, but the various so-called independent authorities. So it is clear that the problems faced by the workers, the people's layers of our islands, the working class and the people's family in our country cannot be dealt with except in an insurmountable struggle and conflict with the policy of the respective government, with the parties serving the interests of capital, with the monopolistic groups themselves. Only in this way can they defend rights, but also place at their centre the fulfilment of needs. That is why the only road that is for the benefit of the people is to come to a definitive break with the power of the plutocrat. We are clear as a JRC: the only way out for the benefit of the people is socialism and not capitalism, which is becoming increasingly inhuman. So, for example, the supremacy of the socialist system and also in the transport sector is enormous compared to capitalism, where there is the state transport operator responsible for not being competitive but in addition, it will be able to make use of all transport infrastructures, using all forms of transport, in order to meet the people's transport needs, as well as the needs for the development of productive activities on the islands and on the continent. At the heart of this process of production will satisfy the people's needs, through the socialisation of the means of production, the utilization of the achievements of research and technology for the benefit of the people and not for the benefit of the profitability of capitalist enterprises - we see the trade war and the dimensions of the trade war and the state war on the vaccine, which is yet another symbolic demonstration of the parasitic nature of the capitalist system - and, of course, the release from the European Union and from other imperialist organisations. From this point of view, the position of the JRC is given in this piece of legislation. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u313	Thank you, Mr Karathanasopoulos, for keeping time. The speaker of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr Konstantinos Zachariadis has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u314	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Today, this is the Memorial Day of the Greek Jewish witnesses and heroes of the Holocaust. But what do we mean,'remembrance'? Memory is a constant battle against racism, hatred, intolerance, darkness. It is the struggle for many of the things that are giving rise to the head in Europe today and must go back to the time of history. Memory is the day-to-day fight against oblivion. Memorandum are cohesion policies and solidarity policies. The 'never nazi', 'never fascists' can, and must, be, policies pursued. Like today, seventy-six years ago, it is said that Auschwitz was released. It's not like that. Like today, seventy-six years ago, the Red Army released Auschwitz. This must be remembered by all in a country where the Nazis have recently been the third party. We all remember it in a country where Christos Pappas is still uncircumcised. Remember this against the reviewers of history in Greece and Europe. I see in many New Democracy colleagues' speeches the question of Alexis Tsipras' sues and treatment for the so-called villa in Sounio. This is a terrible courage! I would really like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, do you think that the political system should be fortified by slanderers, by make news, by yellowism and by murders of character? Can you believe it? How should a politician react when he feels that he is slandered, that he is being muddled, that they are lying to disorientate public opinion, that there is a communist bombing to change the agenda? Do you trust in justice? If justice says that those who wrote and said these are slanderers, liars, "yellows", then you, New Democracy, who made dozens of announcements, comments and parapolitical and analyses, what are you? Are you going to apologize? Or do you insist as a New Democracy for the publicity you have given this issue? But that's always the slander. They're cowardly and weep just before the truth shines, just before the lie collapses. Did you forget the journalist who resigned a few weeks ago denounce extortion, strangulation and pressure from the Maximos Mansion? That's the reality. That is the public reason and the public debate in the country. On the occasion of yesterday's debate, the democratic sensitivity of the Mitsotakis Government can be summarised hereafter: citizens are obliged not to hold any protests because of the pandemic. The government, however, is entitled to regulate in the midst of a pandemic and with Parliament, objectively, what it wants to do with the pandemic, without social dialogue, without social resistance, with fewer speeches and meetings in the House, with media giving 60% of the time to the panels in the New Democracy, which took 40%, while the remaining 40% of the time is allocated to those who took 60% of the time. And in this I don't put on the independent remarks they make in the various panels. And these are the elements of the National Broadcasting Council. It's not SYRIZA's evidence. So is this the functioning of our democracy in the middle of a pandemic? We learned last week from the World Medical Association that in the public transport the coronary is stuck. Looks like the coroner's stuck in school classes too. What has the organised state done a year ago to change the conditions of co-existence to organised structures, school rooms and public transport? Sometimes nothing. Many times less than other countries. Because the government didn't - and it doesn't have a plan. Because the government always finds excuses. It's all her fault. In summer it was the youth and the squares. Now it's the meetings. But I want to say something on the occasion of tomorrow. Those who are in social struggles and streets are there - and we will be there - for purposes that serve human life, public health, solidarity with our fellow human being. No one protests either to get sick himself or to get sick next door. And to know that all this struggle that we've been giving as a society for a year, for a lot of us is a plausible day-to-day path for public health, for the armoring of the ESS, for health rights. It is an unthinkable course for a society with more freedom, social and individual, a society with less inequality and equal starting points and opportunities, a society of solidarity and consistency, where one helps one another to get out of the crisis and will not undermine him, it will not implicate him. We are fighting for this society now and after the pandemic. With regard to the draft law, the drafting of a national strategy is an unequivocally necessary step and, first of all, a positive one. But a number of problems make the national strategy a literally empty letter. In this bill, ambiguity and vows are left behind. For example, Article 4 defines as policy fields in a wide range of sectors, without even trying to identify specific activities. There is also no attempt in the bill to distinguish maritime policy from island policy. Obviously there's a coating and they're connected, but they don't match. No, it is not just that there is no attempt to link the actions and tools proposed with the transport equivalent, that is, the core of the existing island policy, but that is not even nominal. We hope at least that this will not signal any thought of undermining the flag policy that has been launched in our day. There are four financial instruments, without even an indicative budget. The sources of their funding are fully generalised, without an effort to determine how they can be exploited. Furthermore, it does not explain how these are related to sectoral tools and regional NSRFs or to initiatives such as the specific development for the northern and southern Aegean. There is therefore an almost complete absence of the element of local society's consultation and active involvement in shaping the national strategy. Minister, listen to SYRIZA's positive proposals and counter-proposals - a Progressive Alliance for Insularity and Insular Policy. Do not constantly legislate in the name of interests. Do not weaken or remove regulators. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Unfortunately - and I am closing with this, Mr President, and thank you - to the government in control and control is the same hand as the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u315	Thank you, too, for keeping time. Mr Athanasios Ljupis has the floor for seven minutes. I should like to inform you that there are twenty more Members to speak. You understand that keeping time must be respectful. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u316	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today's bill concerns the planning of our maritime policy over time, with specific strategies, which are being reviewed in the light of the circumstances and needs. In essence, the necessary first steps are needed for our country to have a specific and targeted maritime policy and an island policy for the first time. The main focus is the national strategy, drawn up in the light of the development perspective of the islands and the marine economy. It includes detailed records of the problems of each region, with particular emphasis on groups of socially separate people such as disabled people. The main aim is the sustainable development of island economies, making small and remote islands a priority. The national strategy shall be drawn up every five years, a reasonable time to give fruit to the guidelines it draws up, and shall be subject to an annual evaluation. In the implementation of the national strategy, a National Register of Maritime Economy Bodies is set up, and a Digital Platform for Single Monitoring and Documentation is created. The statistical data resulting from the implementation of the strategy are thus recorded. In addition to the planning, of course, appropriate funding is required for actions that are being promoted. Different financial instruments are provided. The specific programme ‘NEARCHOS’ will implement projects in the port infrastructure, in the development of maritime tourism transport, in the mobility and living needs of islands. There is a specific provision for the development of water management and management and distribution networks in the small and remote islands. The Programme shall be implemented with the cooperation of the general government, local government bodies and other public bodies, with investment loans from the Deposit and Loan Fund, which are repaid through funds from the Ministry of Shipping and natural programmes. Insular entrepreneurship shall be strengthened through a programme of funding from the Public Investment Programme to support and develop medium, small and micro-enterprises in the marine economy. A Maritime-Blue Economy Fund is set up to finance innovative entrepreneurship investment projects in the marine economy, blue development, shipping technology and shipbuilding equipment. The bill contains chapter on support for pandemic-affected seafarers. The special purpose allowance for seafarers who are suspended from work and the Easter and Christmas allowance procedure is also provided for. Due to the financial consequences of the maritime pandemic, all compensation rights for the fixing, porting of ships and professional fishing vessels other than cruise ships are reduced by 20% for the months November - December 2020 and January 2021. A new impetus is given to the shipbuilding and repair operations of wooden vessels up to forty meters, known carnayas, with the legislation allowing them to make use of the saint and the beach for their work. Finally, with arrangements for the Port Body and the Greek Coast Guard solutions are given to a number of individual issues. The Head of the Port Corps is responsible for the adoption of a regulation on the organisation and operation of the Port Authority of Mount Athos and makes use of the 2019 tender tables for pedigrees and port guards to fill the empty organic positions of the Port. We are a country that is surrounded by the sea, with about six thousand islands and rocky islands and supports a large part of our national economy in the tourist development of its islands and coastal zones. The development of maritime policy on solid bases should have been our priority for years. The introduction, on a case-by-case basis, of fragmentary measures to stimulate our islands and islands is not enough to solve the chronic problems and give the necessary impetus. The government, again making use of digitalisation and simplification tools, but primarily by attempting to approach the problems of the island area, lays the foundations for the sustainable development of the maritime economy. Of course, all this to be done is prerequisites for the resolution of issues affecting many islands, such as the Sporades in Magnesia, with problems with maritime transport, infrastructure in ports and living standards for residents. All of this is prioritised in the context of the national strategy. The problems, shortcomings and needs are recorded. Our islands - and indeed the smallest and most distant ones - have a voice in the context of national policy and islands have access to additional financing and business opportunities. At sea we owe as a people our acne and prosperity from ancient times. It is time, then, for us to give our sea and our islands the importance that they deserve and which they deserve. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u317	Thank you, too, for keeping time. The New Democracy MP, Mr Nikolaos Manolakos, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u318	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, our Government, loyal to its announcements and to its reform programme, today brings an important bill concerning the island policy and the maritime economy. As you know, our country has the peculiarity of having more than six thousand small and large islands, of which the two hundred and twenty-seven are inhabited. And you rightly wonder what the Greek state has done for island development for so many years. Instead of raising it first and making use of the unlimited dynamics offered by the islands, the lack of vision, fragmentation and micro-participatory interests, they did not allow the development of a serious national policy that would turn islands into a source of wealth for the Greek economy. What's the result? Our islands, in addition to any tourist development, suffer from severe and chronic problems, incomplete port infrastructure and in many cases unexistent water supply and sewerage networks, the absence of waste management and problematic coastal connections, problems that I find particularly on the islands of my constituency, Aegina, Poros, Hydra, Spetses, Kythira and Antikythera. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANAOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] In short, our islands, instead of having emerged in a basic lever of growth, a guide and a "spirit" of the economy, have been left without any prospect of sound growth. Suffice it to think that since 2000, of the few businesses that have been active on our islands, most of them have been envious to the environment and have been repulsive to local communities, farms. Ladies and gentlemen, in such a situation, today comes the bill of the Ministry of Trade Shipping and Island Policy to form a national strategy framework for the first time. Its main objectives are sustainable and sustainable development of the marine economy, addressing the issues of island cohesion, promoting investment and creating sustainable jobs in the maritime economy and blue growth sectors. One of the most serious elements introduced by the draft law is the establishment of the Maritime Economy Bodies Register, where all actors involved in the implementation of the national strategy will be registered. Also, an equally important tool is the Single Monitoring and Documentation Platform in the fields of the national strategy, i.e. a digital platform where archives and data are kept particularly important for interconnecting, interoperability and information, thus contributing to transparency and control. Furthermore, the draft law also sets out financial instruments for the implementation of actions, firstly, with the ‘NEARTOS’ programme for the financing of public projects, secondly, with the Special Financing Programme for Island Entrepreneurship for small and medium-sized enterprises active in the maritime economy and, thirdly, with the Blue Economy Fund, which will finance actions for the development of innovative entrepreneurship in the maritime economy and in the blue economy. Minister, at this point I would like to focus on the proposal from the Piraeus Chamber of Commerce and Industry, which has been submitted and which you know. I think it is particularly appropriate and I support it. It is about the creation of a ship dissolution, which, beyond its necessity, will also be a first-class perspective for job creation, and funds will be saved from the limitation of the imports of shraps and steel, but will also take a breath from the damaged shipbuilding industry, which has been so affected in recent years. Also, Minister, take note of the fact that the next threeteen years, due to the age of the Greek coastline, are out of service and will be given for dismantling. Is it possible to continue the policy to go for dismantling in Asia or Turkey and by the crack of Greek ships to build Turkish warships and research ships? Now, as you already know, there are the European Union's financial instruments and programmes for the creation of state and private solvents. So I think that the Ministry should pay due attention and attention to the idea and fine proposal put forward by the President of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Piraeus Vassilis Corkides. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome this draft law, which for the first time sets strong foundations for a national strategy in our island area and creates serious prospects for the development of our islands and the recovery of the local and national economy. I give the credit to the head of the Ministry of Commerce and the relevant service actors, and I invite you to vote in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u319	Thank you too, Mr Manolakos, especially for keeping time. Because they are still twenty speakers, I would ask that the time be strictly respected. Now I will give Mr Miltiades Hatziganakis the floor from SYRIZA. Then Mr. Vassilis Spanakis will be given the floor from the New Democracy. Mr. Hatzigiannakis, come on, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u320	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we know that today we are discussing a bill with a great title for development, the strategic planning of the island regions, the islands of Greece. The truth is, however, that we are seeing a strategic plan beyond the barbaric title, one of which is the full absence of the recording of the financial needs, that is to say, how the capital is to be pumped and what it is worth in order to be able to meet the great, enormous needs of island Greece. It reminds me of some exhibitions of various scholars' ideas. When I was the mayor, they came to me and said, 'we're going to make development planning' and I said to them: 'Children, on the basis of what do you suggest we do? What's going to happen here? How are we supposed to raise capital? Where are we going to end up? Where will you arrive?’ And they said to me: 'Without these reports and all these studies, you cannot move towards the future'. I, too, spent a small island as mayor and saw the problems - like all my colleagues - with my mouth open and I said: 'What exactly am I listening to?' I was now - from there I came - to a teleconferencing conference with the Mayor of Sifnos and the Deputy Mayors of Sifnos. Minister, does all this strategic planning that you've brought us here really touching the problems? Have you seen the problems of island Greece? Have you seen what it's like in winter our islands, this time, now? We've got endings in January. Have you visited our small islands, these under the three and two thousand inhabitants, which are the vast majority of our inhabited islands and which are then single municipalities and are supposed to have all the responsibilities that a municipality like the urban ones has? They are treated exactly the same way. I had a teleconferencing with the Mayor of Sifnos. But I, as mayor, had the honor and joy of visiting too many islands, because we had taken initiatives to build networks of islands. I travelled and visited them and smaller islands from Skyros, much smaller islands. I went to Psara, to Kastelorizo, to Onousses, to Kythera, to very many islands and smaller islands and to the same size or a little larger than Skyros. These islands have nothing in winter. They don't have technical services, they don't have towns. They have to travel without knowing how. We were going to visit and didn't know how to visit these islands. They don't have boats in winter. They don't have medical care. And we're talking about the strategic plan without at least discussing with them? What consultation took place with the local authorities of the islands of all Aegean islands? What consultation did we do to see if we can move on to a strategic development plan? The reality is that the islands have them as holiday centers in the summer months and winter, we abandon them and the islanders in their fate and insecurity, which means that you don't have a doctor, insecurity that you don't have a pediatrician and your little boy or your newborn child running a fever at night and don't know how to deal with it and where to go, who to go. In what has lived every islander in any place small island in our country. And where are these people going? Logically, the mayor will go, to the vice mayor and to the people who have to solve far greater problems than the ones that account for them and the possibilities offered by the state. The only time - not that we have done everything perfectly - that in the years that I have known, the government has really gone through and tried to solve the problems of the islands was the government of SYRIZA. And I'm explaining why I'm saying that. In addition to the constant request of all islands and chambers of commerce - because it had happened, before the equivalent was announced, with the Aegean Chamber of Commerce had come to Skyros and had met in collaboration with the Evia Chamber - the fixed request for decades did so by the government of SYRIZA. The constant request for emergency funding and for the island municipalities to be classified as a separate entity was made in the government of SYRIZA, both with the "KLITHEN" and with the "PHILDIMOS" programme, and now with the exceptional grants. Because the government of SYRIZA, the Ministry of Interior, did not stay in the "Philodimos" programme because, in fact, island municipalities, the small ones in particular, had a terrible problem in raising capital and that, because they do not have organised structures. Nevertheless, the Ministry also helped with the EBRD and other structures in the small island municipalities, and almost all mayors have to say so. But we also had a separate programme in the Ministry of Interior, from which the disadvantaged municipalities mainly draw a separate line, apart from what the Ministry of Health did to set up a special EKAB unit for the problem I said during the course of patients, which was piloted. They were here - because I also had the honour of participating as Mayor - in a meeting with the Ministry of Health with the then President of the EMCDDA and the Deputy Secretary-General to see how this can be solved in the northern Sporades. The SYRIZA government has really tried to solve the problems of islanders. He didn't baptize any strategic framework. Nevertheless, he created two very important investment projects of 100 million for the regions of North and South Aegean and was next to what we needed them. We therefore call on you, instead of putting heavy headlines, to reflect on how you can be next to the islanders in ways that will be possible to make infrastructure projects, to meet the needs of the people on the islands, who really in the winter months feel like citizens of a third category or even second. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u321	Thank you, Mr. Hatzyannakis. Mr. Vassilis Spanakis has the floor from New Democracy and then Mr. Maravegias Kostas from New Democracy will be prepared. Here, Mr Spankee, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u322	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, our Parliament is now being called upon to pass a bill that will make a decisive contribution to strengthening the competitiveness of the Greek shipping industry in the post-COVID era. And when we talk about strengthening competitiveness, we are talking about strengthening the Greek economy. And when we talk about strengthening competitiveness, we are talking about creating and maintaining jobs. We are also talking about support at all levels of the Greek economy, which is tested together with the global economy in a period of intense health crisis. Today, however, it is a historic day. It's a day of memory of Holocaust victims. And we cannot allow such events as they have been done and not honor all those faces, including many Greeks, who have had a very bad effect. I believe, however, that, speaking of this bill, there is no need for specific mention of the importance of shipping in the country's economy, of the pioneering of Greek shipping worldwide or of the role of the sea in general in our lives and our economy. It is something to which we all agree, regardless of what side we represent. So, logically, there should be no one who disagrees with the need to establish an integrated, serious policy for shipping and our islands. Our islands are not only three months of tourism in the summer. They have many and great opportunities for innovative development, such as agriculture, energy and elsewhere, and we must support the islands and our islands, especially the Aegean islands that have increased difficulties and specificities. And this is what we do today with the draft law of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy entitled "The Integrated Maritime Policy in the Island..." etc. I stress the title, because in addition to a great reform that is being carried out for the first time, it is symbolic, it is also indicative of the way our Government, the New Democracy Government understands politics and legislates. Today's draft law is an integrated text, which recognises the specificities of the Greek territory, the catalytic importance of the marine element and at the same time the advantages and prospects of development on our islands and on the sea. 18.7% of Greece's surface consists of islands and in this it is living 15.1% of the total population, while over 25% of GDP is derived from economic activities related to shipping, tourism and related professions. To date, however, and while almost all governments have characterized tourism as the country's heavy industry, this is not reflected in the policies that have been pursued so far. But, as I pointed out at the outset, we are not talking about tourism today. There is no doubt that tourism is a comparative advantage for the country and an area that should always be of primary importance to the economy. However, this should not be the only pillar of development for island regions. The islands live 12 months a year and not three or four months a year, and perhaps now more than ever we should support and strengthen them in practice. On the one hand, we have to face the challenges of neighbours, and on the other hand we have all the problems that have increased over recent years with immigration and, of course, almost a year ago, the health crisis, which has brought about a very serious economic crisis. That is why we are talking today about an integrated use of the wealth of the sea, of coastal areas and of the islands. Today we are putting the real foundations to prevent us from becoming - perhaps at some point - as Andreas Papandreou said in 1981 the 'garsons' of Europe. With today's bill the obligation to draw up the national strategy for integrated policy in the island area is laid down. To this end, an annual policy assessment report on the island area is to be drawn up. This report, as described in Article 5, evaluates and evaluates the policies implemented during the previous year. It is drafted and submitted to the Minister for Maritime Affairs by the Council for Island Policy, after having given a favourable opinion to the Ministry for Rural Development on fisheries and aquaculture matters. The report is then presented by the Minister to the committee responsible. You see, ladies and gentlemen, the way in which our Government legislates: in concrete directions, with the implementation of its election agenda, setting out clear objectives and, above all, with the logic of continuity, which is achieved through the introduction and introduction of tools and instruments for monitoring and evaluating them. In this context, the National Register of Maritime Economy Bodies is set up in accordance with Article 9 of the draft law, as well as the Single Monitoring and Documentation Platform in the fields of the national strategy. These are two more digital tools to complete digital governance. We also have a series of very important financial instruments. Article 6 also sets out the special 'NEARCHOS' programme for the financing of public projects. Such are the infrastructure projects of the ports, the port authorities, the facilities of the Ministry of Shipping, the facilities of the Public Commercial Maritime Schools. The programme is also aimed at developing island regions to improve their infrastructure. In particular for small and remote islands, basic infrastructure such as water management and transport, energy projects and the improvement of maritime transport will be able to be financed through the NEARHOS programme, in order not to keep the islands without transport coverage. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr President, and thank you. The Island Entrepreneurship Fund and the Sea - Blue Economy Fund are also established. Both these financial instruments are intended to develop the marine economy and the islands in an integrated manner, through access to the money market and taking into account all the specific geographical features of these areas. In the maritime economy, we promote actions and we strengthen innovative entrepreneurship and sectors such as shipbuilding equipment, the development of applications for shipping and others, thus strengthening employment. Let me mention very briefly - and I am closing down, Mr President, and thank you very much for the time - the provisions on the Port Corps and the Greek Coast Guard with which they are considerably strengthened. For example, the empty organic positions existing from the 2019 Tendering Schedules will be covered in order to directly meet the increased needs that exist. With the adoption of the regulation by the Head of the Port Body, issues of organisation and operation of the Port Authority on Mount Athos are regulated and so a solution is given to the problem that existed due to a lack of authorization.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u323	Finish it, Mr. Comrade. Finish it. Because we still have twenty speakers. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u324	Ladies and gentlemen, for the first time in history the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis has drawn up a comprehensive maritime and island policy which will bring growth, prosperity, employment, investment at a stable level, with specific objectives and evaluation of results, not by chance or season. That is why this bill needs to be passed by all of Parliament's wings, because it is a bill of reform and a serious national strategy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u325	Thank you, too. I would ask that the time be respected so that we do not need the seven minutes to make six and so that we are wronged by your other colleagues. Mr Maravegias has the floor from New Democracy and then the last speaker with a natural presence is Mr. Dravets. Then we're going into the Webex talker circle. Mr. Maraveya, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u326	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that this international context highlights the central importance of our country's islands and its strategic role, but it will also play in the next few decades. Issues such as the influence of the islands, the definition of EEZs with Italy and Egypt, the exploratory discussions with Turkey on maritime zones in the Aegean Sea and, of course, the protection of Greek interests in the south-eastern Mediterranean are top government priorities. It is no longer a general political announcement, but a specific strategic plan, which is implemented by concrete actions. Of course, such actions, with obvious international political significance, are not made vacant. They are supported and accompanied by measures of a defensive and economic nature, which constitute the material basis of the Greek objectives. A characteristic example is the last purchase of the eighteen Rafale from France and the ratification yesterday by the House of the Convention on the gas pipeline between Greece and Bulgaria. The aim of the Government of Mr.Mitsotakis is double. On the one hand, the increase in the power to prevent the country and, on the other, the upgrading of Greece's geostrategic role as an energy hub of a network of strong partners. Thus, our country's diplomatic movements on high-policy chess board now have a solid background and a long-term horizon. In this very national effort, the Greek islands come to play the top role without exaggeration. It is the chess on which our maritime strategy will be unfolded in the third century of the existence of the new Greece. Because, for Greece of the future, the ancient prediction of what it will be like to be a "greater state of the sea". This is therefore another Greece, much more ambitious and larger. After all, we have recently seen our homeland grow by 10%, taking advantage of its coastal character and island dimension in the Ionian Sea. Of course, the achievement of such a visionary objective requires two basic elements, economic development and the security of the island area. These two elements come this bill to protect, but also to promote. Guaranteed at sea is the Greek Coast Guard, the modern version of the Port Body. So this aspect of our island policy is coming to upgrade this bill, through the cooperation of the port with the European Border and Coast Guard. Article 33 provides the basis for the establishment of a permanent Community Maritime Protection Agency. This is a strategic choice for our country, which has always sought to cooperate with European organisations, especially with regard to the protection of the Union's external borders. Because the south-eastern borders of the European Union also happen to be Greece and Cyprus. We therefore have every reason to seek the cooperation of all the Member States of the European Union in matters of security. The second pillar, beyond security, for a successful island policy is economic development. And here comes the bill under discussion to make bold contributions, with the introduction of new funding programmes to support the local economy of our islands and the creation of new infrastructure through three financial instruments. The first is the specific NEARTHOS programme for the sustainable development of ports and the improvement of their basic infrastructure, the development of maritime cabotage, transport and water management networks and energy management projects. The Funding Programme for Island Entrepreneurship is the second instrument. The aim of the programme is to provide all kinds of funding, including grants to enterprises active in the maritime economy. And finally, the third tool is the Blue Economy Fund, to promote innovation in the maritime economy, in particular in the fields of maritime technology, maritime and shipbuilding equipment, as well as information and communication applications in the above areas. These are three ways that can be valuable for the exploitation of all available marine resources and the rapid development of our islands. I would like, Minister, at this point, to say a few words about the problem of local development, including the islands of my constituency, Magnesia, especially at this time when the consequences of the pandemic have been accumulated in island regions such as the northern Sporades. Skiathos, Skopelos and Alonissos are typical cases of beautiful Greek islands, whose development was mainly based on the tourist product. The recent economic crisis, however, and the perpetrator of the pandemic hit this sector hard, especially those areas dependent on tourism to a large extent. That was, I think, a lesson that we all have to learn through the coronary crisis. That is why it is very essential, beyond the islands' tourism, to invest in other areas, such as the green and blue economy, the local production, education and mobility of young people. On the occasion of this last remark, Mr Minister, I would like to put again the problem of the maritime link between the northern Sporades and Volos, a problem that I have described in three reports and came to the public yesterday, with the expression of complaints on the part of the teachers who serve in these northern Sporades islands. The issue is about the need to operate the ferry connection with Volos and Sundays. The absence of services on Sundays results in a major problem in teachers' movements, since if someone departs on Friday afternoon, the only return solution is either on Saturday morning or on Monday at 8 a.m., just before the bell rings. As a result, teachers are not practically able to move to mainland Magnesia and visit their families. The problem will be intensified on February 1st, when the teachers of secondary education to and from the northern Sporades and I am sure, Minister, that with your social sensitivity, which distinguishes you from the beginning of your term, you will do your utmost to restore the normal maritime connection between the islands of Magnesia and Volos and to remove this abundance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u327	Thank you too, Mr. Maraveya. Mr. Theodore Dritsas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u328	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I too am obliged to speak briefly on this important day of memory and honour to the Greek Jews, and not just to witness in Auschwitz's carnage. I would like to point out that the Greek Parliament, in the previous period, chaired by Mr Nikos Voutsi and the entire Bureau, placed great emphasis on this matter. The pillars that are out here, inside the perimeter, with the Jewish MPs, Greek Jews of the Greek Parliament, are something that had never happened before. The astonishing version of the persecutions of the Jews, and not only from the Nazi occupation, is a monumental version and has not been exploited as it should be. In Auschwitz, while since the next war Greece has had the right to a privileged presence, such as all the countries that had been persecuted, to have a stand in Auschwitz, it was the only country that had not been and acquired it with the SYRIZA Government and with the President of Parliament Mr. Nikos Voutsi. And at a special ceremony the opening of the temporary pavilion was made, with the aim of being ready, scheduled, to complete. He's left, he's left. Well, Mr President, I would also ask you to pass on to the honourable President of this House that we cannot do more. And to note that the Greek government, Greece, this stand in Auschwitz, not only in memory of the Greek Jews, who were primarily persecuted by Greek homosexuals, Greek Roma, Greek communists and many other categories of our fellow people and our compatriots who were victims and tortured in the creativity of Auschwitz. These are all recorded, with all the data and after huge research carried out by a scientific committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u329	Mr. Dritsa, I've stopped time. I will complement what you said that the Greek Parliament in 2014 also passed a law punishing anyone who has been maliciously denying or exposing the Holocaust. So you see there's a continuity.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u330	Of course, I say that the Greek Parliament - I mentioned the action of the SYRIZA Government and President Nikos Voutsi - has taken very important initiatives that must continue. This case cannot be left in oblivion. I will also say that the defence of Alexis Tsipras against his open attack, not just by journalists, but by people in a headed and outdated press oligopolis operation and oligarchs to be slandered, is a matter of undermining the political system and not just one person. Alexis Tsipras sent outlets for two months, described the whole thing and asked for rehabilitation. After two months of all the explanations he gave and details, he continues the same misery. Should not the SYRIZA President - Progressive Alliance support himself and the political system? Take a seat. I now move on to the National Strategy bill - Integrated Maritime Policy in the island area. Our rapporteur, Andreas Michaelides, said so, Nektarios Santorinios, Parliamentary Representative, and many other Members. Minister, you may have envyd the SYRIZA initiative, which the Isle of Indigenous Members took the lead and started in the previous years when we were a government, a process of regional conferences on productive reconstruction, with particular emphasis on the islands. We have a lot of material in this direction, too creative material, and we have it not in the closets, in front of us, we continue. And from that we understand that we need to do a lot more work to compose in a real direction the immediate implementation of an integrated programme and not just one government and one law. We've chosen the transport equivalent. We've chosen health. We have chosen and promoted issues. What you are bringing today - and you have seen, our criticism is creative, it is not derogating, it is not zero, so listen to our opinion - it still needs a lot of work. You were able to bring it to the Committee on Production and Trade, you could bring it to the Committee of the Regions and call for treatments. There's no point in making this a law of the state, which will be nothing, it's a shell. As for the rest, I will not defend myself or the rule of SYRIZA, but also for the coastline and for the many other issues of the islands next to you you have a worthy manager - I am not flattered by Mrs Kalogerou, with which we collaborated harmoniously and not just myself, but all the ministers of SYRIZA, despite our opposition and our differences. Mrs Kalogero can tell you the state of the coastline in the northern Aegean with the collapse of NEL. For the Kytheras it was not competent, but it can tell you about many and many others and how we handled them and how we did how much work from dawn to 2:00' at night. At 1,00 hours at night, we were calling, just because things were on alert because of the collapse of the ferry. How, then, will we not look at these and so easily will we present them? Solid waste. Look, the regulation of Europe and Article 105 and what we did to stop this misery of many decades, in which the public PPA and all the port organisations throughout Greece, with the monopoly of transaction and corruption, gave this battle both institutionally and practically and in all ways. It says the'many beneficiaries' regulation and, if all the conditions cannot be met, one. And you choose one, because you say that is the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of the House. Is that possible? Not only is it a question of corruption, but it is also an issue of uneconomic and anti-development. Since the first day I became Minister, the CEN, the Vessel Union, raised this matter to me. They can't stand it. And in Piraeus and other ports. And no ships that could come, but they prefer other countries and other ports for their waste. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me one more minute, Mr President. Thank you. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Theodoros Dritsas, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] RAL and DAL. Minister, the Memorandum of Understanding was to upgrade RAL and become powerful. And then as a New Democracy, you were in favour of RAL and DAL, the Troika didn't even want to hear it. We have succeeded with arguments that are inconsistent with the basic argument 'what is going on across Europe', and we presented to the Troikas what is going on in France, the Netherlands, Germany, everywhere, in all the ports, which not only dominated by the Public Port Authority but also has social links with the chambers and offices and the state and the IAL, which have been abolished. We have not dared to reach social composition. We started to cross next. And ral streamlined it, really upgrading it, within the framework of the Constitution. Please tell me, in your explanatory statement or in your last speech, an example of overlapping responsibilities that makes you put the downgrading of ral responsibilities. Tell us one. I know and this text, I am sure, was drafted by a legal counsel of a particular company and not by the Ministry's services. We know them very well. And we know very well how much 'COSCO' wants to be a state in the state, how much it wants to be a special purpose and a special economic zone, contrary to Greek laws and the concession contract. It is a huge development infrastructure - they are working today, I was down in the courts, representing the Members of the SYRIZA, for support - and it is a production unit of high-speed development for ports. Now have you decided that you are in favour of the Public Navigation Agency?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u331	Finish, Mr. Dritsa, please. You've been in ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u332	I'm done, Mr. President. So many years you've been saying to privatize before we took the government. The then New Democracy was saying to privatize the Navigation Service. And I'm finishing with the civil servants' health coverage. That's right, you're doing it. Unfortunately, the resistance we had was very strong and we were unable to do so. Good for you to do it. But why, Minister, did you have in the public consultation an article 29 that upgraded the number of civil servants to eight hundred ninety and in the bill you withdrew it and did not have it? Why? Would you give an explanation? I am tabling the communication from the Association of Shipbuilding Enterprises, the Shipowners of Perama, the Piraeus Engineers, concerning RAL, to see how much you are hitting small and medium-sized enterprises, and the Pan-Hellenic Shipowners' Association - Shipowners and Shipowners - they are not systolic - for the Navigation Service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u333	Thank you, too. Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, most of my tolerance to Mr Dritsa, in view of his reference to the Holocaust, and I therefore think that I have your understanding. Well, we're entering the Webex system now. Mrs. Olga Kefaliannis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u334	Thank you very much, Mr President. You will allow me, too, to first mention today's World Holocaust Memorial Day, day of memory and respect, day of promise that we should never forget the six million Holocaust victims. It is a day of struggle against anti-Semitism, against racism, against violence, especially nowadays, when intolerance and extremism reappear. Today and every day we all declare our faith in the values of freedom and democracy. And since I have previously heard the former Minister, Mr Dritsa, refer to the interim report on the presence of the Greek Jews in the concentration camps, that was indeed the case in the previous period, but I would like to tell you personally that the President of Parliament, Mr Tasoula, ensures that Greece's final report to Auschwitz is carried out in order to commemorate the memory of the Greek Jews who lost their lives in the concentration camps. Never again. That must be on everyone's lips. Ladies and gentlemen, I now enter the agenda and the bill we are discussing, which is a very substantial development project for our country, as our islands and the coastal area of Greece are very important wealthy resources. Tourism, shipping and economic activity in this respect account for 25% of the country's GDP. We all understand that this, at the level of production of goods and services, income and employment, means a lot to a country like Greece. Nevertheless, the specificities of islands create many and structural problems, due to their particular physical, social and economic characteristics, both in relation to the continental regions and between the islands themselves. For this reason, the creation of a single island policy in addition to a very important project is quite a difficult one. It needs emphasis and, indeed, discreetness for each complex or every island, even in matters of population, local market, access to health and education. And, of course, the human potential - particularly in the small islands - is a catalyst for effective and sustainable development. That is why it has to be strongly supported. The project is difficult for one more reason. The country's ten-year fiscal crisis hit even more small islands, remote islands and continental regions. Their permanent and structural problems have increased, the fragmentation of product and labour markets, increased demands on infrastructure and equipment, health and education, increased transport costs have strengthened the problems. In many island regions, the impact has been very negative in the country's already serious demographic problem. In many cases there have been no births on our islands, unfortunately unlike the number of deaths during the same period. Today the huge economic crisis from pandemic creates new unprecedented problems in these regions. One of the main pillars of their development, tourism, is underestimated. It is therefore very important that strong financial resources from Europe also be used for island development. This draft law will contribute to this. Ladies and gentlemen, for the first time an integrated island policy is being established, based on the use of the particular development prospects of the islands, an initiative which is expected to make a significant contribution to the economic social and territorial cohesion of our island area. It is planned to establish a national strategy for integrated maritime policy in the island area, which will enhance the competitiveness of the Greek shipping sector, in particular on the next day of the pandemic, with specific development objectives for port policy, maritime ports, maritime transport, island competitiveness and entrepreneurship, strategic maritime security, with control of its effectiveness, as it will be drafted every five years and will be assessed annually for the implementation of its objectives. Significant financial instruments are also being introduced to support the island area. The NEARTHOS programme provides funding for projects of a public nature in the fields of port infrastructure, the equipment of the port authorities, the public maritime schools. It promotes the strengthening and restructuring of the productive development model of the island regions. Financial instruments with resources from the national co-financed part of the Public Investment Programme shall be established. All types of financing are to be provided to enterprises active in the maritime economy and, in particular, to small and micro-enterprises. In the same development direction, the portfolio fund is to develop innovative entrepreneurship in the maritime economy. These are key interventions which will contribute to the tripartite blue economy: 'tourism, fisheries and energy'. Particularly for the tourism sector, as pandemic changes everything in the criteria for selecting tourist destinations, safe tourist experience, environmental sustainability becomes the modern indicators of durability and competitiveness of the tourist product. These new data certainly need to shape new opportunities, especially in the island region. The turn to green energy and the blue economy create opportunities to adapt services to visitors, create conditions for change in the structure and operation of tourism, based on the specific characteristics of the islands and of the geographical area. Ladies and gentlemen, in these new conditions, where everything is tested and we should look for new roads focusing on man, the environment, health and sustainable development, we must have this direction so that we can change the development path of island Greece. We must bear the burden of improving the quality of life of 15% of the Greek population, with what this means to increase its contribution to the national economy. Our islands have lifted and lifted huge weight from the migration flows. The Greek sea area of the Aegean, Crete and the Ionian Sea is of major importance in the international and European field. It is a neural field of protection of our sovereign rights. It is also a hub of European energy policy. For all these reasons, and as the Greek Constitution proposes, we must unite ourselves to prioritise the development and prosperity of our islands and do so today by voting for the Ministry of Shipping's bill. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u335	Thank you, Mrs. Kefaliannis, especially for keeping time. I shall now give the floor to the MP of SYRIZA Mr Panagiotis Kourublis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u336	Mr President, I would like to express my grief for the unexpected death of a great democracy fighter, Sfi Valyrakis. And, of course, I too should add to what all the previous colleagues have said, as far as the Holocaust victims are concerned, that humanity will never experience such pain again. Mr President, the ancient ancestors said: 'The term was'saving out'. Fortunately, there is a need to ensure that the European Union is able to play its part in this process. In words, our islands are at risk once again, as has happened in the past, especially with the transport equivalent, which the various governments have forty years brought, but only one government, despite difficulties and constraints, has implemented it and given it another perfume - let me be allowed to express - in the psychology of the citizens - that central power shows an interest in an extremely vital, not only developmental, but also in the national sovereign rights of the country and region. For this is the only time that we have committed ourselves to such a programme, with all the necessary appropriations being provided. But this is a paradoxical fact, Mr President. The Government is required to pay for the impediments of the implementation of the transport equivalent. And while he has not fulfilled these obligations, he wears rocked rabbits in a report of ideas without obtaining the credit. When there are no credits, such legislation is left to the unclaimed. Because they have never been able to implement their objectives since the appropriations had not been provided before. Mr President, once again, as in the past, the government has shown allergy to public education in the field of maritime education. From Article 17 to Article 19, the abandonment that exists in this sensitive area shall be demonstrated. Not only has she been abandoned, but I will be presenting a figure that demonstrates in the most plausible way what the government thinks about this area. We have secured seventy-two permanent staff posts, of those that had been abolished by previous governments in 2013 and 2014. Since 2018, nineteen positions had been guaranteed and so far the government, twenty months in power, has not carried out the recruitment of these teachers, to upgrade schools, when we launched a programme of 8.5 million to support all schools, when we founded and operated the school in Kalymnos that promised it for so many years. Mr President, a lot has been said about Article 22. I will only add the following. The Minister must take very seriously into account the fact that a ship with such a captain, now able with the provisions you are proposing for a vote, could serve the interests of a country in a lasting dispute with Greece, sink in front of the seafarer's entrance, and then you know what the consequences will be for the country. I would just like you to take this into account, and I would like you to take it very seriously, because it is really an extremely important fact that we need to anticipate as a possibility. As far as Article 25 is concerned, here is the transparency of the New Democracy, and it has grabbed the Greek people's vote, sinking into the solid waste of the ports. Mr President, Greek and especially Piraeus do not come to the ports. Piraeus, 'COSCO' has five tanks. Three hundred working days a year at five are a thousand five hundred days. Do you know how many working days for these five tanks? Six hundred days! So nine hundred days is no activity. Why is that going on? Because the cost of the waste prevents ships from coming to the Greek ports. We, Mr President, continue to extend for another year. Mr Plakkatakis had a ready-made provision, he had to implement Regulation 352 of the European Union and, in spite of this, went from an extension. And it reaches the peak of derogation and illegality, to resurrect contracts that have expired, in order to serve specific interests, without allowing other providers to take part in other providers, to reduce user costs. Ask the Vessel Association, Mr Plakatakis, to tell us publicly: does it agree with this provision? And then you will once again understand or many will understand what interests are served. I'm going to Article 30. Mr Minister, take note of the fact that the reference to national defence can be disastrous for the integration of these two programmes which we support, we have backed up and inconsistently to date you have not made any progress. I do not want to expose people, to tell you how long these two very important programmes have been in your office, which would give the country a maritime surveillance programme rather than just one. Ladies and gentlemen, I have two amendments to deal with. As far as the amendment to the RAL is concerned, an independent authority has anyway abolished IAL, when all the privatised ports in Europe have such a public body to supervise their activities. All right, let's accept that you did. You're coming now and you're trying to eliminate ral, on the argument of overlapping. So, present us with the overlap and tell us a port operator who has really not recognized RAL's effort. But that's what happens when someone objects and contrasts with you. Last night, you didn't even incorporate it, Minister, into the bill because you didn't have it in your mind. Once ral filed something different, you came to tear it down. These are the policies of the government of excellence, which has become a government of virtues! And I close, Mr President, with something that has really left me strong in the debate on the institutions. I heard a Ministère trade unionist, who was holding a great livanist - not to say anything worse - saying that we were fleeing the minefield of the previous government. And I was expecting Mr Placiotakis, as a politician who understands and understands the value of continuity in this democracy that we live in, to put him in his place. It was really a misery of expressions for a government, when the Port House very well knows what our support was. They know very well, and so I am forced to say that one of those who wanted and prevented the introduction of the pan-Hellenic examinations was Mr. Bassiakos and the others. Instead of supporting his persecuted colleagues, he comes here to make the government's defender. Well, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u337	Please finish, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u338	I'm closing, Mr. President. How many port ships sailed in 2015, when this government took over, and how much are they sailing when we handed over? Who established the frontier allowance and who demanded, ladies and gentlemen, from Europeans, in the framework of FRONTEX, the same wage as the porters of FRONTEX - who come from abroad - that the ports of the Greek Port Corps also receive? Mr President, I would ask the Minister to consult Mrs Kaloger and Mr Hadjimarkos, with whom we worked, as Mr Dritsa said, excellently on this famous upgrading programme at European level of the island policy. There was a decision in Valletta of all the co-legislative ministers. It is the only programme that, if you like, we can fight together for the islands of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u339	Mr. Curublis, you've spent ten minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u340	Okay. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u341	I didn't interrupt you. You're done?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u342	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u343	Mr.Tascakis Anastasios from New Democracy has the floor and Mr. Christos Gokas is prepared from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u344	Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law is an important part to determine the development path of our islands. It introduces the innovative tripartite: "Isle ofness, maritime economy, blue growth". Acknowledging the national importance of the island area as a whole, a holistic strategic approach of the island policy and the marine economy is being attempted for the first time, recognising the territorial and environmental specificities and the many advantages of the Greek island regions. The island country makes a significant contribution to our economy, ensuring around 25% of our country's GDP. However, the island economy has been faced with a number of problems for years, such as the issues of infrastructure, exclusions, increased transport costs and the products they produce. For the first time, therefore, an integrated maritime policy is being established throughout the island through the national strategy. Three useful financial instruments are activated, making it possible, in a timely manner, to implement the development objectives. The first programme concerns the financing of public-sector projects such as maritime transport. The second relates to island entrepreneurship, supporting financially small enterprises that are active in the maritime economy and are geographically isolated. The third relates, of course, to the establishment of a Portfolio Fund, to the development of innovative entrepreneurship in the field of the maritime economy and blue development. At the same time, important provisions relating to the post office armouring of port services are introduced, as provision is made for the coverage of empty organic positions in the Port Corps - Greek Coast Guard, which arise after the adoption of Law 4676/2020 with the provision of the ranking of ninety-five pedestrians of important and port guards of the 2019 competition. Ladies and gentlemen, in a geostrategic environment, where multiple unrest and security challenges are identified, it is important to shield our island area economically, nationally and socially, naturally in cooperation with the European Union and through the border guard and coastguard, which has already started to be structured in our country. And this is achieved through this draft law. The development objectives set by the national strategy relate to maritime ports, maritime infrastructure, maritime transport and island competitiveness. The island of Samothraki, the island of Niki, can benefit from this new strategy introduced by this bill. Mr Minister, at the port of Kamariotissa, as I have already informed you, orally and in writing, the necessary infrastructure must go ahead in order to protect the motto and to restore the damage to its western exit and to the northern motto. At the same time, it is absolutely essential to upgrade the infrastructure of the port administration there in order to serve the increased police needs of the Thrace and the northeast Aegean. At the same time, however, I must remind you - we must not forget - that all this space wants to protect, as it has been in the past, with the War Navy cannon. I think it is worth it and to protect our fishing grounds, because the neighbour unfortunately applies extermination practices and tactics when it comes to the desertification of these fishing grounds. At the same time, I recall the update of the study of the competence of the Region of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace concerning the construction of a Lakoma fishing shelter. The new programme, established under this draft law, concerning the financing of projects of a public nature, can be a useful tool for our island. Also, the ferry connection of Evros to the islands of the northeastern Aegean is a matter of utmost importance, both for our extreme prefecture and for Thrace and in general. The creation of a new sea Egnatia that will "walk" with the road Nea Egnatia in Alexandroupolis can change the economic environment of the wider area. A sea crossing will be created between Evros and the islands of the northeast Aegean and vice versa. I propose the overall re-painting of routes with a route of Alexandroupolis - Samothrace - Lemnos - Lesvos and vice versa. After the establishment of this route, we will also take on our course and the painful islands of Imbros and Tenedo, following an agreement with the neighbouring country, with simultaneous responses from Lemnos to Lavrio, from Lemnos to the central and southeastern Aegean, as well as from Kavala. It is a way of exploiting our vital space, which is the Thracian Sea and the interconnection of our markets with those of the northeastern Aegean. Ladies and gentlemen, it is essential that remote islands be stimulated and strengthened and not just areas of the extreme Evros. The insularity clause should at some point also take the form of accuracy. It can be linked to the accuracy and we can as Evros be the example by strengthening areas such as the triangle of Nea Orestiad, which together with its seventeen villages is the Achilles heel of the Prefecture of Evros. Ladies and gentlemen, the island policy and the support of the island economy cease to be the prerogative of fragmentary provisions and policies. On the contrary, the aim is to have a coherent organized policy that coordinates all the activities in island Greece, with the objective of eliminating inequalities and ensuring the sustainable development of our islands. That is why I am voting in favour of the bill, which really gives way to many problems. Mr President, thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u345	Thank you too, Mr Prussakis, for keeping time. Mr. Christos Gokas from the Change Movement will take the floor and Mr. Vassilis Ypsilantis will be prepared. Mr. Goka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u346	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to express my deep grief at the loss of our partner, the fighter of democracy with our party, with the PASOK of Sfi Valyrakis, and to express my warmest condolences to his family. I would also like to refer to today's International Holocaust Remembrance Day. We honor the innocent victims, including the Greek Jews who were exterminated, and all together must say again that we must not allow racism, Nazism and intolerance to lead to crimes such as these. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill follows the same practice of legislating as other bills, i.e. individual and fragmentary regulations and even though it bears the title 'Completed maritime policy', of the fourteen chapters which constitute it only the first chapter and its twelve articles correspond to provisions on maritime policy from the total number of forty-eight articles in the bill. The bill contains the general principles of programming declarations. It does not belong to a national development plan, which does not exist anyway, but which does not respond to the overall and with real reforms on the issues of island policy. In addition, in order to draw up the national strategy, according to the famous state of government's finality, a detailed planning of actions is required at each level and in each sector of activity per Ministry. And that is not the case, as we have pointed out on the occasion of the debate and other draft legislations. Is the sovereign ultimately centralization and control only? At the same time, no solutions are being given to essential issues, particularly the immediate and imperative problems of the island population, which after the super ten-year crisis and the outbreak of the COVID pandemic -19 have been exacerbated. Provisions for the effective support of the economy, society and citizens, for the effective relief of their problems are missing, while the lack of an overall programme for the management of operational programmes such as the NRP, the CFP or the Recovery Fund is evident. There are no specific measures for the social, territorial and economic cohesion of our islands. The bill is in general enough, with many authorisations to the Minister for the Establishment of Funds and financial instruments to enhance entrepreneurship and to regulate various issues of responsibility of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no debate, there is no measure from your Government, as the negative effects of SYRIZA's policy on the equivalent of transport continue. No measure to grant and support the increased transport costs for islands in basic goods, materials, feed and so on. We also reiterated and again tabled an amendment on the need to introduce, through constitutional provisions, the reintroduction of the reduced VAT rate, which we with PASOK governments had adopted. It was abolished by SYRIZA, while the government did not bring it back. Following developments in the pandemic, it is necessary to reduce VAT on all islands. Also, the islands - especially the smaller islands - suffer the consequences of horizontal measures because of pandemic, while, in the light of the epidemiological situation, measures can be taken and this by nature is easier for the islands to return gradually to social and economic activities. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Biagis has already been detailed in all the articles in the bill. I'd just like to stand by the following. It is unacceptable to exclude technical work from the environmental licensing process, in particular in maritime and island areas, the Habitats, even in “NATURA” protection zones, by invoking the reduction in the time of completion of the project in Article 30, while the insistence on Article 25 creates the risks that our rapporteur and other colleagues from the Change Movement have mentioned about legal actions against the country and while the exclusion of ships from navigation in the Greek ports in Article 22 does not provide the general conditions for the safe implementation of such a provision with the port structures given in our country. Furthermore, with regard to the amendment to amend the provisions on the Port Regulatory Authority, the already incomplete powers which it had, although an independent authority, are now being merged and others are being abolished, another example of the government's attitude to the role and functioning of the independent authorities in our country. We have established, voted for regulators, but truly independent and not controlled by ministers. Do not weaken what you cannot remove. As regards the amendment on the imposition of the relevant fine for the infringement of the working time of the seafarers of EUR 300 to EUR 1 000 per day instead of the current EUR 300 to EUR 500 per worker, I too would like to highlight the risks arising from this institution, since this provision does not protect, not guarantee labour rights and does not strengthen proportionality or rationalise the imposition of fines for the maritime sector. The addition of these two amendments in particular at the last minute obviously changes the nature of the legislation. Why have these provisions not been tabled in time for discussion? In addition, the issues of the amendments are neither unknown nor exceptional to justify speaking time to some extent. That is why our position cannot be positive in this form of legislation, apart from the individual provisions we do not disagree and we will vote on. In conclusion, however, I would like to say that this bill is a long way from the policies of an integrated island policy, decentralisation and regional planning, as well as the adequacy of infrastructure and services in social structures and the prospects for the inhabitants and the development of the islands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u347	Thank you too, Mr Goka, for keeping time. Mr Ypsilantis from New Democracy has the floor and Mr. Georgios Papaliou will then be prepared by SYRIZA. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u348	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, Mr. Deputy Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this morning I received from Mr. George Jedakis a film of the Cine Chevalier Film Lab, the "Supports Foundation for Scholarships of Rhodes Emmanuel and Mary Stamatou", on the occasion of the International Day of Remembrance for the Victims of the Holocaust, dedicated to an Isle of Rhodes, Jewish of Rhodes, Sami Montiano, who traveled from the island in thirteen years, not to find a better chance, but to meet the horror, horror and destruction along with other counterparts, to live the loss of his father and sister and face death daily in Auschwitz - Birkenau. In this way I would also like to honour the memory of the millions of victims, including the thousands of seven hundred Greek Israeli citizens of Rhodes and Kos from the atrocity committed by the nazis against humanity. Returning to our years and today's reality, addressing the negative effects of islands through the development of a coherent integrated maritime policy in the island area is, first of all, a very important and prosperous step towards supporting our islands. Despite the fact that Greece is primarily a maritime state, with a line of six thousand two hundred and ten nautical miles and more than three thousand islands, for the first time from its recommendation it has a substantial strategic plan aimed at restructuring the productive model of island regions and through this framework of the national strategy, the necessary financial instruments are created with resources from the national and co-financed parts of the Public Investment Programme. In fact, with what the honourable Minister, Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, has assured the committee, concrete interventions have been made to ensure that, when the NRP specializes, there is a clear and explicit reference to the issues of insularity and other policies of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy. Three are the main objectives of this project through specific programmes and actions. The first aim is to enable the financing of projects for port infrastructure and facilities and building infrastructure and equipment for port authorities and public commercial maritime schools. The second, and through national and Community resources, medium, small and micro-enterprises will be financed in the maritime economy. Finally, through the establishment of the Portfolio Fund, it seeks to promote innovative entrepreneurship in the field of the marine economy and blue development. It is an extremely essential condition to tackle islands, to have effective incentives. And with the introduction of what is introduced by the draft legislation being passed, this function can be served in the best possible way. The main areas included in the national maritime policy strategy in the island area are the specific development objectives related to the areas of port policy, maritime ports and maritime infrastructure, maritime transport, island competitiveness, entrepreneurship, maritime surveillance and maritime safety, blue professions, investments in the blue economy. Every year there will be the necessary report on the results and effects of the policies implemented by the Island Policy Council, which will be presented to the relevant committee of Parliament, and the necessary monitoring will also be in place. The draft law establishes a national register of bodies promoting the marine economy and development in one of the four sub-registers involved in all these relevant bodies. This national strategic planning is completed with the creation of a National Strategy for Decision-making and Knowledge Management Platform. Data, statistics and studies shall be kept. Also important are the areas imported in connection with the National Single Port Platform, while the long-awaited maritime tourism bill will provide for the digitisation of steps towards the establishment of shipping pleasure boat companies. With these considerations, I also wish to express the wish that, with development incentives and in the context of the national strategy, we will soon be able to introduce tax incentives, those which have been denounced by the third Memorandum of Tsipras, Kammenos, Varoufakis and, in particular, the reduced VAT rates for the islands. To finish once and for all, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, how do you think you have made an island policy? With the development conferences, Mr. Tsipras's show? By seeking to change paragraph 2 of Article 101 of the Constitution on Insularity, to intercept a legislative, constitutional and constitutional work introduced into the Constitution in 1975 by the New Democracy? With some workers who you made on some of our islands or with the so-called 'transport equivalent' you brought, that is, after the criminal assignment by you of the acquis communautaire for our islands of reduced VAT rates? It was New Democracy which introduced the constitutional concept of islands and which promoted the provision of Article 120 in the 6th Directive on reduced rates of VAT on the islands in the European Union. It is the fact that during the memorial period reduced rates have been observed in our islands. He introduced the specific provision that I personally proposed to the Committee on Public Administration and was accepted and included in Law 4622/2019, which added to any draft law or amendment, as well as a regulation of major economic or social importance, must be accompanied by an analysis of the consequences of regulation in relation to islandity. However, the main thing, ladies and gentlemen, is that the New Democracy, the great popular liberal party, is constantly next to our islanders by means of acts and works. I should like to conclude by congratulating the Ministry of Shipping's political leadership on this important intervention to deal with islands. In my speech, I declare the draft bill voted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u349	Thank you, Mr. Highlands. You were short too. Mr. George Papaliou has the floor from SYRIZA. Then Mr.Efstratios Simopoulos will be given the floor from the New Democracy. Mr. Papaliou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u350	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first and foremost before I referred to the bill, I would like to make a reference and to substantiate the reason why I tabled an amendment, which concerns an important omission made by the government in the recent draft legislation of the Ministry of the Interior for the IAS. In particular, Article 12 of the Law now defines the areas where residential areas are additionally located on account of the identity of the written invitation to tender to be conducted by the AACC. The draft report states that increased moleculosis is provided for the inhabitants of areas with particularly unfavourable geographical, geographical and population characteristics. The original version of the bill and the law mentions nominally the regional units that meet these characteristics, as mentioned in the report. This is regional units at the border. In this particular article, too, the Regional Unit of Kozani was added as a result of the defoliation plan. However, the final version did not include the Municipality of Megalopolis, the Regional Unit of Arcadia, the Peloponnese Region, also affected by the defoliation plan. Its inclusion is requested by my amendment. The addition of the permanent inhabitants of Megalopolis is necessary because this municipality is affected by the implementation of the degreasing plan and the closure of the lignite plants of the PPC plant, which will result in the abolition of a large number of jobs, thus increasing unemployment and, if there is no coherent plan for the period of lignification, which appears to exist from a governmental perspective, the depopulation of the area. This addition, adding Megalopolis, complements the cycle of all areas affected by the ligniteification of the country and thus applies the principle of equal treatment in relation to the areas of western Macedonia. I just want to say two words about the defoliation plan. Under the pretext and in the name of ligniteification, the current government has decided on the violent closure of lignite plants, unfortunately without a plan and within a minimum period of time for the preparation of the lignite age. The violent death of PPC's lignite plants in Megalopoli, which was announced and implemented is a overwhelming blow to Megalopoli and to the entire Arcadia. About a thousand six hundred jobs will be lost immediately, eight hundred forty-six permanent workers, hundred forty-seven men and four hundred forty-five contractors and indirectly many others, which will be the result of the region's marvelation. It will de facto bring about the violent death of Megalopolis and the wider region. The draft of a fair transition proposed by the government is moving within an insufficient period of time and is tabled without prior consultation with the local society and its representatives. And one last thing on this issue: Megalopoli, one of the lignite reserves areas that hosts PPC's units and which, as a society, has been built around PPC's factory, must seek and design outlets for its survival and development during the post-living period on the basis of its comparative advantages, with a sustainable plan in the long term. This addition to the affected areas for which increased moleculosis is anticipated is a kind, I would say, of even small compensation to the region, which has contributed to the country's energy policy for many decades. It is also an offer, a kind, I would say, of facilitation, even small, to the new permanent inhabitants of the region, without, of course, addressing the problem at the root of the problem. Ladies and gentlemen, another addition, which relates to the constitutional regulation of Article 106(1), which promotes, as stated, regional development and the promotion of, in particular, the economy of mountainous, island and border regions. I would say that this arrangement is aimed at the state in all its appearances to promote policies that favour island and mountain regions, in which de facto there are unfavourable geographical, geographical and population characteristics. Therefore, in the context of political, social and regional cohesion, a specific strategy is needed not only for islands but also for mountainous Greece. And now, I just want to say two words about the bill. It goes without saying that drafting a national strategy for island Greece is a first positive step. However, a number of problems make this national strategy an empty letter. There are more ambiguity and vulnerability, no specific activities, specific actions, even though the policy field refers to a wide range of sectors. There is no attempt to distinguish maritime policy from island policy. They obviously overlap and connect, but they don't identify. Not only is there no attempt to link the actions and tools proposed with the equivalent of transport, which I would say was the climax of the island policy pursued by SYRIZA, but for this transport equivalent no nominal reference is even made. I hope that this will not signal any relationship between his undermining, undermining a policy established by the SYRIZA government. There are also four financial instruments, without even an indicative budget. The sources of their funding shall be reported in a general manner, without an effort to determine how they can be exploited.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u351	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u352	I shall conclude, Mr President. Furthermore, it does not explain how these tools are linked to the sectoral and regional ESDP programmes or with initiatives such as the specific development programmes for the northern and southern Aegean. In addition - and I shall end - the element of consultation and the active involvement of local society in the formulation of the national strategy is missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u353	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u354	That is what I wanted to say, and I repeat, and I would like to stress that insularity is one of the components that is constitutionally provided for in order to form a strategy and political expert, for precisely because islandity and mountainity are characterised by elements which I would say lead to unfavourable situations for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u355	Thank you too, Mr. Papaliou. Before I give the floor to Mr Simopoulos, Minister, because there are references to the amendments tabled by Members, would you like to tell us what you are going to accept?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u356	Only the ministers are accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u357	The ministerial amendments will therefore be accepted. The Minister will not accept the MEPs. We move on to Mr Simopoulos from New Democracy. Mr Simopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u358	Thank you very much. Mr President, Minister, Thessaloniki is well known to be the metropolitan city of Hebrew Hellenism and one of the cities with the largest Jewish population hit in Europe by Nazism. So I too join my voice with all Parliament's wings, with all colleagues from all the Parliament's wings in 'never again'. On Sunday and Saturday in Thessaloniki we will have the established events, which will, of course, take place in a closed circle. I hope in a few months, when the circumstances allow it, that we take the memory course from the Freedom Square, where it was the camp that my fellow citizens Thessalonians gather to the Old Station, where they were taken by the train wagons to take them to Auschwitz. So I pay tribute to my fellow Christians, to my fellow Jews. With kids or grandchildren enough of them, I'm a friend today. I'm on my way to the bill. I will focus on its development sector more and I will not try to make a controversy - essentially what Opposition has done - with interests, in particular with 'COSCO' or opposition to opposition to opposition, because I have a field for opposition to the opposition. In particular, I have to say that this is an excellent idea, an idea that is perfectly practicable, in fact using ponding resources. I have own experience of the issues that the infrastructures in the islands have mainly as a former Secretary-General of Public Works, of the themes that we have financed and of the efforts that the "ENGINATIO DIALOGUE S.A." is doing today to do some work on the islands. I believe that the effort made by the EGENATIS LEVEL S.A. must be strengthened even more through the 'NEARCHOS' programme, which will support these infrastructures. It is a fact that we must support entrepreneurship on our islands, a entrepreneurship which must not be one-dimensional at the level of tourism. And obviously the entrepreneurship programme and also the innovation programme can help very much in this direction. I welcome interventions such as the Port Community System, the Maritime Transport Operators Register, distance learning, carnivores' ability to use the sanctuary. And this will create more jobs, obviously also to cover organic jobs. As regards pandemic issues and support for businesses and workers, these actions are moving in the wider context, which, for the whole of the Greek economy, ensures that the government mobilises or rather signals, implements. As I said, opposition has also come to the point in the wishes of the ideas reports of the famous development conferences. Well, let's not do that. It was purely communicational fireworks. It reached the point of former Minister to speak of the training of seafarers, when he has responsibility, because, for example, sponsorships from the Shipowners' Union on his government did not go ahead, sponsorships to upgrade the country's maritime complexes. Finally, with regard to Rule 38 - I will once again insist, I have also told the committee - we must also include the guards of external prisons in the possibility of going to military hospitals. This cannot be done only for us Members - who are privileged - or for workers in other structures of the state, such as the National Office, or even now for the officials of the Ministry of Shipping. I don't objectively. I think that this category should also be added. I would be happy if a legislative improvement were passed, even at the last minute. However, even if we do not have time to do so, I know that the government has the sensitivity and will move in this direction. Finally, I would remind you that even symbolically the government shows its sensitivity to our island region. Today, people in Kastelorizo were vaccinated against the coronary. Of course, this has also been done for symbolic reasons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u359	Thank you, too, for keeping time. Mr. Dionyssis Kalamatiano from SYRIZA has the floor. Then Mr. Kriton Arsenis from Mera25. Mr. Kalamatian, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u360	Thank you very much, Mr President. Many colleagues have mentioned the Holocaust of the Jews. I too should add that we should never forget the shameful crimes of Nazism and fascism against humanity. It requires knowledge, memory and exclusion of those politicians and attitudes that allow the hatching of the snake’s egg. Ladies and gentlemen, the government continues to legislate within the pandemic of provisions that eliminate the rights of workers and citizens, restrict the functioning of the public sector and satisfy private requirements. It continues its neoliberal programme, implementing arbitrary, authoritarian, anti-democratic and unconstitutional provisions, which are in no way urgent. While such provisions are not suspended, the Government invokes exceptional circumstances and suspends and restricts democratic and constitutional rights. It forbids meetings of more than a hundred people by decision of the Chief of Police and, of course, by the Minister responsible, Mr Chrysochide. It allows, of course, multiplier meetings at the stores, in closed malls, without any problem. It does not concern the overconcentration of passengers on buses and trains. It does not care about crowding in closed mass workplaces. Obviously, the government fears social response to its provocative and destructive policy and is rushing to restrict and ban by authoritarianism, violence and repression. But he should know that social reaction is not hypothetical, it is not suppressed by authoritarianism and repression. As the anti-democratic government is growing, the people's response will be more resounding and intense. I now come to the bill under discussion. I will begin by pointing out that there are many provisions in this regard, either simply wishing or clearly serving specific interests, without any substantial measures for the islands. I am referring first of all to the provocative provision for the pilot service. The possibility is introduced for masters of the first and second grades to obtain a navigation exemption certificate to enter ports without a pilot. This reduces the importance of the public nature of the Navigation Service and creates a huge problem in the safety of shipping and ports. This provision puts the safety of seamen and passengers at risk. Did you really think that an accident would cause human casualties or serious consequences, both in the marine environment and in the country's tourism? Professional navigators are recruited if they meet specific qualifications, pass by evaluation and are further trained to navigate safely. Their experience is a given and great one. But that's not what you're interested in. You are interested, on the one hand, in serving specific maritime interests and, on the other, in degrading and devaluing the Public Navigation Service. I continue with the provision you bring for the exemption from the obligation to grant environmental permits for the maritime navigation and surveillance projects of the port, as well as VTMIS, ERAS and the Maritime Traffic Monitoring System of the North Aegean. You know, of course, that the exception you are trying to make is a challenge to environmental legislation and is contrary to basic principles, both of the Constitution and of European legislation. These projects are, in fact, of national importance. You know, however, that they cannot be financed with European Union funds if they are designated as national defence projects and if they do not comply with environmental rules. You have unduly delayed the implementation, establishment and operation of these systems, which we as government had launched and guaranteed European funds. Now you're trying to cover lost time, bypassing environmental legislation. But you are creating greater problems that put the projects at great risk. I continue with the amendment to ral. What are you actually doing? You strip the Port Regulatory Authority from important responsibilities for supervising, controlling and safeguarding the legality of relations between public and private bodies of the National Port System. The upgrading of RAL to an independent authority was carried out to protect the interests of the public against the concessionaires of the ports. You are now turning it into a simple advisory body, leaving any sense of transparency. On the substance, you are abolishing any possibility of intervention and control of RAL. In this way, the ongoing audit procedures for waste management in port organisations and any other control procedures planned will be stopped. By transferring responsibilities for supervising concessions to the Minister for Shipping, you will have the following legally unauthorised situation: The Greek State will monitor contracts in which it is a counterparty. In addition, this amendment reduces the amount of fines imposed by RAL, which ranged from 5,000 to 1% of each offender's turnover. It will now be between 5,000 euros and 15 000 euros. You realise that, with this legislation, fines will be a mess for offenders who receive millions of euros. This is also the result of your amendment to reduce the fines for violating maritime legislation. It's obvious that it's a gift to certain shipowners. Until now, the fines in force in the event of an infringement of maritime legislation, and especially in the infringement of working hours, amounted to EUR 400 to EUR 500 per seaman. If, in other words, thirty seamen worked on the ship, the fine would be from 9,000 to 15,000 euros for the breach of the hour. What you are now introducing is that fines will be imposed per day and up to EUR 1,000, regardless of the number of seafarers. Until a grand, then, the fine and it's all over. What's the result? You know that very well. Shipowners will be able to force all crew on unpaid overtime, at risk of physical integrity, workers' health and maritime safety, and pay small fines in relation to their over-profits. Because the Minister referred to his speech, I would point out that he knows that, if there will be extraterritorial factors such as bad weather, and there is the force majeure to delay, then no fines are imposed by the Port Authority with the current framework. However, you do not want to cover the cases already foreseen and excluded. You want to ensure the profits of certain shipowners and allow them to break the working hours of seafarers, paying little for a fine. That's the truth. All shipowners and seamen know it. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to stress that the sea is alive and arbitraryly linked to our people. Any legislative initiative by the particularly important Ministry of Maritime Affairs must be initiated in the context of strengthening protection and respect for the marine environment, in the ports and, above all, in its people. Unfortunately, your bill goes in the opposite direction and works negatively for the sea and its people. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u361	Thank you too, Mr. Kalamatiano. Mr Kriton Arseni has the floor from Mera25 and then Mrs Panagiota Dunia from New Democracy. Here, Mr Arsenis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u362	Thank you very much, Mr President. The maritime policy bill on the island area is unfortunately once again a report of ideas. Unfortunately, however, where the government wants to become specific, it is done. Thus, blue-professionals include hydrocarbons mining. Didn't the government really hear the news? Hasn't he learned the news that the first thing that America's new political leadership did to restore "trambism" was to stop mining pipelines? It was the first thing he did. And now the Alberta of Canada, which produces hydrocarbons, has come to announce that he will sell the metal in scans to avoid the great damage. I wonder if the government has not learned that REPSOL, the mining manager in Epirus, Itolo-Carnania and Ioniano, has announced that, apart from unregulated departures from Greece and certainly leaves too many other regions in order to turn towards renewable energy sources? Will one, one of the companies need to leave Greece? Do you not understand how dangerous this mining policy is, which puts the environment at risk, increases tensions with another, Paleolithic political country, Turkey, which, of course, too - has been immersed in the past, in full disconnection with modern reality and in the fight against the climate crisis - is claiming oil and at the same time does not bring any, but no, income and benefit to the country? It seems that "trampism" is not over or rather continues outside America. The invasion of the Capitol continues outside America. The new programme finances the repair and construction of ports. And it's true. There should be a public investment programme. But really, haven't you given all these ports to the HICP and the superstition? With your own investments, do you aim to help citizens, or to provide ports to individuals, who want to be sold without having to make any investment and only to collect revenue? It's obvious you want the second one. You never forget the shipowners. You forget, however, easily about the workers in seagoing shipping, who have not received this poor Coronovirus allowance in October, neither in November nor in December, nor in December, as well as the long-term unemployed who are missing from the map of measures. It's obvious that the shipowners don't want you to forget them. It's obvious, because we see you're opening up the possibility of full tuition for private education for the merchant navy. Is it really just one of Mr. Chaku's private high school in Chios? In this private high school, are you giving this money, where tuition fees are 4,000 euros a year and 3,500 euros the stay? Are you going to pay these tuition fees? How much would it cost to strengthen and increase the public schools of the seafarer? Have you done an assessment of the alternatives? No, for a very simple reason. Your aim is to serve specific interests. You are, of course, forgetting VAT on the islands, which you have increased. We have had too many amendments to reduce them, restore them to the original levels, before memoranda. And yet you, not now, at the deepest point in the economic crisis because of the coronary, do not accept these amendments. With regard to the abolition of the responsibilities of the RAL for European Regulation 352: Tell the truth, you do not want this regulation to be applied. You have an interest in not applying this regulation. You serve interests by not applying this regulation. When RAL recently removed the circular needed to implement the regulation, you delayed issuing the Government's FEK for months when any other RAL document that followed this circular was made public in weeks. You are determined not to apply this regulation to Greece and you must say that very well. But you're talking about islands. Three to four companies belonging to either foreign multinationals or banks control all shipping, prices for islanders have increased, especially in the winter months. At the same time, based on calculations and public communications, 2025, 40% of the fleet will be over forty years. It has now failed private navigation. What is needed is the necessary design from the past decade for a public navigation that will unite each island unit Cyclades - Dodecanese - North Aegean. Three hundred and sixty-five days a year, the islands will have transport between them and their administrative centres. That's necessary. And in the transitional period we need an equivalent transport for all goods and people. We also obviously also need the creation of modern port facilities, but not to be sold to individuals, as you are planning. We need to regain control of public infrastructure, of fixed infrastructure, of gateways of entry and exit on these islands, otherwise there is no independence in this country when one controls all these main infrastructures. And then yes, we definitely need to invest immediately. Finally, what we wanted in the blue economy to do immediately - and it requires us to do so after my own intervention, if you wish, in the process of creating and deciding on the common fisheries policy - is catch shelters. It is what it could save fishermen today, who could save our environment, the health of our seas. These will be areas that will be excluded, and fishing will be prohibited in order to create these batteries for biodiversity and fisheries. And from there on, the catch will go out into areas outside the shelters, and very easily our fishermen will be able to fish with sufficient fish, without ruining our last sea stocks. It is a necessary measure which is also provided for by my amendment to the common European fisheries policy. I call on Greece and on this bill to implement it in Greece as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u363	Thank you, Mr Arseny. We are now entering the last circle of speakers, the first speaker of Mrs Dunia from New Democracy. To prepare Mr Christos Giannoulis from SYRIZA. Please keep the time and, if you can, limit it to six minutes by yourself, so that we can finish. Do not forget that we have a roll-call vote. Mrs. Dunia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u364	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, as a member of the 1st Pireau Region and our islands, but also as a Piraeusian with origin from Spetses, I have a special interest in fisheries and island policy. I am pleased that a worthy colleague of mine, Member of the Piraeus Parliament, Mr Katsafados, has been minated to the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy. I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate him on taking up his duties, wish him every success in his difficult work, in which we all invest a great deal, both in Piraeus and in our islands. As you know, in Greece we have about six thousand islands and islands, of which about two are inhabited. In the island, even, almost 25% of our Gross Domestic Product is produced in the island. So we can easily understand how much the island country contributes to our economy, in which main activities relate to shipping and tourism. The island country can play a key role in development, as long as it is given due importance. The dispersed and fragmented provisions which have existed so far have not been sufficient. I feel happy, therefore, that this draft law does just that. It seeks for the first time an integrated strategic approach to the island policy and the marine economy, in order to support and strengthen the economy of these regions, a strategy that recognises the spatial and environmental specificities, the many advantages of the Greek islands and the unique identity of our islands. The development of this policy is, moreover, part of the National Reform Programme “ELLAD BROSTTA” and is a key priority of the government. But what is it, ladies and gentlemen, the policy I am talking about? The national strategy is a single policy text, with specific development objectives - areas. Such objectives are port policy, port infrastructure, maritime infrastructure, maritime transport, island competitiveness and entrepreneurship, but also maritime surveillance, maritime safety, employment, investment in digital governance and, of course, health, welfare and education. As part of the preparation of this national strategy, special attention is paid to small islands, with the adoption of specific programmes for them. At the same time, important principles such as the economic, social and territorial cohesion of the islands, as well as that of non-discrimination, are being taken into account, which is coming, inter alia, to safeguard accessibility to the islands for people with motor problems. The national strategy, which we are talking about, will be drawn up every five years and will be assessed once a year. The first relevant national strategy will be drawn up and will be presented in six months from now and will cover the years from 2021 to 2027. The draft law provides for the mandatory preparation of an assessment and evaluation report on the effects and effects of policies implemented by the Isle of Policy Council. For the better and more effective implementation of the national strategy on the island area, a National Register of Maritime Economy Operators is established. This will work through gov.gr. Entities of Greece and abroad will be registered in this register in areas related to the national strategy in the island area. Its purpose is, of course, to promote, map, coordinate and network operators on exactly the same issues as the national strategy. It is also established at the Ministry of Maritime Platform of Single Monitoring and Documentation. This platform will serve as a mechanism for monitoring and documenting data contributing to decision-making and knowledge management in the fields of the national strategy. Such data are the statistical data and the relevant studies. The essential and driving force, however, which is acquired by this bill by island policy, lies in three new instruments. The first tool drawn up by the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy is the special programme 'NEARTOS'. This includes public-sector projects in the fields of port infrastructure, facilities and networks, management, transport and distribution of water, energy and maritime transport projects. In order to implement the actions of the Programme to general government institutions, investment loans may be entered into with the Deposit and Loan Fund. The assistance of these loans will be financed by the national or co-financed part of the Public Investment Programme of the Ministry of Shipping. The second new important tool is the Island Entrepreneurship Funding Program. This is a specific programme for the development of the island economy and for dealing with the difficulties on the market, which creates precisely the geographical isolation of island enterprises. The Greek Development Bank is responsible for the management and implementation of the programme. The aim of the programme is to provide various types of financing to enterprises, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises, which are faced with a presumption of a serious problem and are active in the fields of the maritime economy. The third tool is the Portfolio Fund, the so-called Sea - Blue Economy Fund. The Portfolio Fund is intended to finance actions to develop and promote innovative entrepreneurship in the sea, in the maritime economy and in blue development. It gives particular importance to the promotion of shipping technology, maritime and shipbuilding equipment, the development of applications, as well as the use of information and communication technologies in all these sectors. Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to this integrated maritime policy, the draft law we are considering contains other important provisions, for example for international shipping, for the Port Authority and the Greek Coast Guard, for maritime tourism and for the training of seafarers and their support for this critical period of pandemic. Let me make a brief reference to the last few months, as well as many others, so the maritime world has been seriously affected all these months. The bill specialises support measures for maritime work for January and February. It shall be possible to suspend or extend the suspension of contracts of chartering of seafarers if the vessels do not operate. The seafarers shall, of course, be entitled to special compensation for all days in which their contracts are suspended, while providing them with full insurance and health coverage. At the same time, for the smooth course of the academic year, the possibility for public schools to provide distance learning courses of maritime training is extended. Furthermore, in order to further support those affected by the pandemic, port rights are being reduced. In particular, there is provision for a 20% reduction in the fee for all kinds of compensation rights, such as fixing, tracing, porting vessels and professional fishing vessels for November and December 2020, as well as for the current January. In the same context, a sixty-day period is foreseen, instead of thirty days in force, by the ship's outlet for the repayment of pilot rights. Ladies and gentlemen, as we all understand the draft law of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy inaugurates a new philosophy in dealing with the island country. It introduces a new approach to island policy, based on an integrated plan, with strategic objectives, actions, tools and financial programmes. This coherent island policy, I am sure, will help both the sustainability and the development of our islands and speed up the pace of the Greek economy. That is why I consider it a duty for all of us to vote in favour of it. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u365	Thank you, Mrs. Dunia, too. Mr. Christos Giannoulis from SYRIZA has the floor. Then prepare Mrs. Mika Iatridis from New Democracy. Mr. Giannoulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u366	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'll try to contribute to the shortcut of time. Ladies and gentlemen, ever again, never again for Holocaust conditions. However, I would ask that today - and I appeal particularly to colleagues of the government majority from Thessaloniki - they have had the foresight to ask the Vice-President of the Government, if he still remains, Mr Pikramenos, to give us a tangible example of the fact that we are really contributing to the attempt to keep memory alive, to lead us to the outcome of 'never again' for the Holocaust, with the progress of the Holocaust Museum. Both the Thessaloniki Municipal Authority and the Government, once elected, are blocking and threatening the Holocaust Monument not to take place and expose our country internationally. This agreement had been formalised in the presence of two Prime Ministers, Greece and Israel. On this point, Mr President, I would also like to go on with the bill because it has the heavy 'developmental' title. I would say, on the basis of the news, that there is a confirmation that this is another customer legalisation of the irreparable Mitsotakis government. I'll explain immediately what I mean. It reminds us of the time when the current Deputy Prime Minister, the shadow Prime Minister, Mr Samaras, as Minister of Culture, of the miracle, had led workers to the Acropolis Museum come from Messinia. I inform you that a few minutes ago they saw the light of publicity dehearted revelations about the fact that the list of successful transport in Athens, the OSH, for urban transport, was eradicated, because the sixty of the three hundred sixty candidates unfortunately only qualified as the "blue" origin, because within the bill included the "blue" tools. It was the only qualification that they came to the competition and the ASA turns back badly the contest. Imagine that one of the candidates had only one standard qualification, according to the discovery of “NATIONS”, was only a double-cycle driving licence. All this, ladies and gentlemen, is weakening the credibility and confidence in the bill we are debating. I would like to make one more comment, because I saw in the bitterness and disappointment of the Parliamentary Representative and former Minister of State, Mr Brutsi, who lost the ministerial court and the television 'contract' of Sunday appearances - the 'contract' in many introductorys and with respect to the person of the Minister - I heard him accusing us of putting freedom of choice at risk, because the former Prime Minister and President of SYRIZA resorted to justice, after depleting all other possibilities, in order to restore lies, which were made in the face of journalistic criticism. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is disgusting that the natural and moral persuasive perpetrators of the greatest crime against freedom at pan-European level, the Samara Government with the support of Venizelou, who, when they closed down ERT, became a front page in all the newspapers in the world, because no one believed that in Europe of 2013 there would be a government that would throw 'black' into a journalistic organization. Now also, in 2020 and 2021, ladies and gentlemen, no one would believe in Europe that there is the 'Petsodrome', what gives money without any criteria in the media. So don't be transparent preachers of liberty, because you're the natural and moral perpetrators of the greatest assault on freedom and manipulation, as anyone who lives in the reality of modern Greece sees it. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, really because at some point we have to stop the discussions of the deaf people, at this point do you think that there are no questions which, through the bill, should be answered at the level of political responsibility? Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, don't you wonder why today the Greek hospitals are rushing to order the monoclonal antibodies, which could help from the day that evil SYRIZA and Paul smoking to you told you four months ago? Today, when you declare us the vaccination programme 'Freedom in the smaller islands', is it not the time when the view on the management of the vaccine patent is justified, which would result in us not reaching the current deadlock in Europe and, by extension, in Greece for vaccinations? Does this not give you a much greater political responsibility than party discipline and obedience to the approximately constructed model of Members' speech? Ladies and gentlemen, coming back to the 'never again' and to the Holocaust, the antidote to all of them, in the client's state, in the deadlocks, is democracy, social cohesion, the responsibility measures for citizens, and not customer legislation, which provides, among other things, for 12 million, Minister for Maritime Affairs, for the platform for documentation on island policy, and indeed on the pretext of transparency. It also provides for the complete abolition of the Port Regulatory Authority, which was one of the flaws of the SYRIZA government's forced policy, in a country that you went bankrupt, so that both the PPA and the EAH take the road they took, but that this government has put significant differences, which you are now abolishing, in order to get away from all public control and to be the following, which you have made a policy manifold, the controlled one being also the one that controls the quality of services. And 12 million for a platform? We have heard about the Blue Economy Fund. I've explained how I get it. Do you, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, in customer relations, which will be created directly with the Minister and in an activity where the fine that could be imposed falls from 1.5 million to 15 000? And all that, you think it's a model of development policy and planning? In the port of Thessaloniki, there is a lack of navigators and you're worsening the situation? At the port of Thessaloniki, Minister, because environmental dimensions have been placed, since 2010 there has been no tender for waste management. I would like to conclude by saying something about this picture that we are seeing today in Parliament. You know, I did it, too, to have the TV on. I said before - and I close, Mr President - that in everything that concerns us antidote is democracy. The picture given by Parliament, both in the current legislation and in the general policy of the New Democracy, that education should go to private people, authoritarianism, the Minister of Education, and Mr Chrysochoidis, as well as the image, technically and as a result, at this time since Parliament's meeting, does not help to promote a step further efforts to develop and promote citizens. It is something that you need to see beyond the blips of arrogance that is giving you no more support for citizens, but your feeling that your polls and communication policy are your weapon and your strength. Your strength should be the citizens to whom you are not addressing. You are addressing your friends and sponsors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u367	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. Mrs Chabika Iatridis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u368	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, today we honour the memory of thousands of Greek Jews and millions of Holocaust victims. With education, knowledge and memory we work so that humanity does not relive such atrocities. A constant request from the island of Greece and especially the smaller Aegean islands was the creation and implementation of a coherent and holistic policy for the development of our islands. The territorial continuity, the separate identity and the financial capacity of each island and the distance from the administrative centres are factors that create additional challenges for all those who have chosen to live in the acronym - and not just island - Greece. We therefore welcome, as islanders, the very important initiative by the Mitsotakis Government and the Minister for Maritime Affairs, Mr Plakkatakis, and his colleagues, for tabling this bill in the House. I would like to stress, Mr President, and my dear colleagues, that this bill also has a national dimension. We cannot talk about borders, maritime zones, AEZs and related issues, without first ensuring the presence of people on our islands, which gives breath, giving life to the Aegean and elsewhere. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today guarantees exactly the presence of islands on the islands and creates the conditions for their sustainable development, through financing and strengthening infrastructure and providing incentives for the development of island entrepreneurship. The bill provides for three main financial instruments: the NEARTHOS programme, which provides for the financing of public-funded projects financed by the national or co-financed part of the Public Investment Programme or by the NSRF, the Island Entrepreneurship Financing Programme, which through resources from the NSRF and the Public Investment Programme, will cover the needs of very small, small and medium-sized islands, and, finally, the Maritime-Blue Economy Fund through national and European resources, aimed at promoting innovative entrepreneurship in the maritime economy and blue-growing sector. This is complemented by the adoption with regard to the national strategy for integrated maritime policy in the island area, the National Register in the General Secretariat of the Aegean and Island Policy, where bodies related to the national strategy and the Single Monitoring and Documentation Platform can be written in the fields of national strategic policy, in which the necessary data, such as statistics and studies, will be provided. Ladies and gentlemen, the remaining chapters of the bill provide solutions and deal with issues which, among other things, concern provisions on international shipping, support measures for seafarers because of the COVID pandemic. I would also like to refer to the amendment that makes the framework and the fine more stringent when the necessary rest periods are not complied with. There are also arrangements to resolve issues that concern the Port Authority and the civil staff of the Ministry of Shipping, and provision is also made for the possibility of using hayaloos, beaches and others for shipbuilding, repairing and maintenance of wooden vessels up to 40 meters long, something very important to our islands. It is planned to reduce all rights of ships and professional fishing vessels other than cruise ships by 20% for the months November and December 2020 and January 2021. Ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of today's debate on the bill, I would like to conclude with two comments. The Dodecanese economy is based to a very large extent, by about 90% -95%, on tourism. The price of pandemic on our islands is very hard. Now is the time to reintroduce the system of reduced 30% VAT rates on all our islands. It is a move that will strengthen the inhabitants of the Aegean during a critical period. Finally, with regard to maritime connections, I believe that they should be strengthened even further, because it is a matter of life for our islands. For example, Antipalea has only once a week connection with Rhodes. It is necessary to see the possibility of this connection being twice a week, so that the police do not have to stay in Rhodes for so many days to complete their affairs. I close by stressing that this is a long-standing bill of creation and development for our islands at a time of nationally critical, which is why I fully support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u369	Thank you very much, Mrs Iatridis, and respect for the time. Mr. Apostolos Panas has the floor from the Change Movement and then Mr. Athanasios Zebbles from New Democracy prepares. Mr. Pana, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u370	Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today and we are calling on to vote on a bill which is, in some way, a string of many issues between them. This bill seems to have no reform, but it also seems that there is no real single maritime policy. However, the Greek islands are in a particularly unfavourable position, due to the chronic problems associated with islands, which have increased in the midst of a pandemic and a restriction on economic activity. It should be pointed out that even the planning of dealing with the pandemic has not taken serious account of the specificities of the islands, making economic and social activity difficult. At the same time, despite the fact that the islands were disproportionately affected with other regions due to the significantly reduced tourist activity, there was no special care to help enterprises, as any aid was distributed under the same criteria for the whole country. Today, with certainty that in the next few months we will have more problems, there should be an integrated development and support plan for the Greek islands. Only by means of such a project can the problems faced by pandemic be tackled, but above all the chronic issues which have led to an increase in unemployment and a reduction in population in many regions. In view of the last budget passed a few days ago, the Government did not pay due attention to the financing of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy. Apart from the budget, however, there has also been no emphasis on sea shipping, which is reflected in the slow support of the Greek maritime industry. Particular reference should also be made to maritime education, as this year's Academies in the Commercial Navy are in operation. The Change Movement has intervened with questions and has pointed out that the Navy Academies are subordinated and operate in an anachronistic context. Public maritime education needs modernisation. Ladies and gentlemen, from this bill we can see that there are fragmentary forecasts for integrated maritime policy in the island area, and there are no provisions for the establishment of the necessary funds and institutions. In addition, this draft law refers unilaterally to the definition of ‘Blue Development’, which focuses only on the economic use of marine resource resources. At the same time, the island entrepreneurship programme does not specify the terms and conditions of operation or the criteria for inclusion in it. It should be noted that the funding of this programme is expected to be made from the regular budget and from the Public Investment Programme, but which do not have the resources they need, while uncertain as well as funding from the ESDP and transnational programmes. The need to set up a special fund for the financing of these actions is to be noted here. As far as ship repair activities of wooden and traditional vessels are concerned, there is a need to strengthen them. In particular, a reference should be made to marine tourism, which can contribute to sustainable and sustainable development. At the same time, it is necessary to develop appropriate actions at both institutional and financial level, as the various financial instruments should be combined to maximise the benefit to local communities and to the country in general. Insularity issues should also be in conjunction with digital transformation. Therefore, through the financial instruments that need to be improved, it is necessary to focus the digital transformation of the islands' enterprises and all the actors involved. The integrated maritime policy, which has so far not been implemented, is in agreement with the green agreement' and should draw the necessary resources from the Recovery Fund. Finally, initiatives such as St. Efstratios should continue and be intensified, with the hybrid work that is being constructed, as well as Antipalea, by electricity. These initiatives maximise the benefits, while good practices are created, which can be disseminated throughout the territory. Ladies and gentlemen, we hope that the government will at last take seriously the proposals we have put forward and focus on island policy and the reduction of disparities between the mainland and the island, especially at the time when the pandemic is under way. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] In view of the above and in particular of the absence of a comprehensive plan concerning shipping and islands, the Change Movement will not be able to support this draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u371	Thank you very much, Mr. Pana. Mr Athanasios Zemplis from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u372	Thank you, Mr President. The Arrian in his work on Indians describes many and strange stories about the determination and courage of the Nearchus, which constantly sought new sea routes to strengthen trade and shipping of the Macedonians. It was therefore desirablely chosen to mark a new, ambitious and targeted policy in the field of strategic infrastructure support in the island area. This is very important and is achieved by a draft law which for the first time establishes a holistic approach to island policy. It is very important, too, that for the first time Evia is recognised as an island and included in national maritime policy. And this is a victory of self-evident. Indeed, it is a victory of self-evident that the second largest island of the country and the sixth largest island of the Mediterranean, Evia, will now be included in the island map of the country. I did not intend to insist on this issue, but the Civic Opposition, which is responsible for its previous legislative initiative to exclude Evia, has today criticised the alleged relaxation and enlargement of the term 'Islandity'. I must therefore point out that, apart from the region of Chalkida, which has a road link, the other regions of Evia are facing the problems of islandity and uninterrupted space. After all, it is well known that, because of this isolation experienced by northern and southern Evia, passengers and goods are transported by sea by public means: for northern Evia through the ferries of Ethiopia and Agiokampos and for southern Evia through the New Styria and Marbles. The Moroccan ferry line is facing a problem, which I hope is a temporary problem. This involves high costs in time and money, high costs, both for the living of residents and for the operation of businesses. Besides, the local market and the Evia economy are an important pillar of the maritime economy, as defined in this draft law: With its shipbuilding industry and its traditional carnayas. The ports that Evia has thirty two fishing vessels, four tourists, five industrial and four commercial ports, two of which are of strategic importance. With the fish farms, in which the first, most of the percentage, I think, is real, and we are trying to create the first organized park for their spaced development. Also, with the specialized tourist activities that develop in six hundred and eighty kilometres of a beautiful coastline, for which "NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC" also ranks Evia in one of the ten best destinations for sailing. Finally, with the five ferry lines from which it serves one million, six hundred thousand passengers annually. It is very important that the Government of New Democracy incorporated the port of Karystos on the intra-cyclical route, subsidising the Karystos - Andros - Tinos - Syros, and the competitive process should be accelerated. In this way, the link between Cyclades and Evia and Sporades and Skyros is achieved, which are connected to the ports of Mandudi and Kymi. These are the forces of the maritime economy, which will meet with the public bodies and civil society, to compile an alliance within the National Register of Islandship, with the Department of Port and Maritime Studies of the EKRF and the Kymi merchants' School, creating added value on the basis of scientific research. This is how we find Evia's huge contribution to blue growth, as it is a category of itself. These issues were not raised by us, but also by the Chamber of Development of the Hellenic Islands and other bodies. Nevertheless, SYRIZA with Article 12 of Law 4597/2019, which fortunately is amended by Article 42 of this - and thank you for that - has excluded Evia from the local competence of the General Secretariat of Island Policy and has incorporated our island into the mainland map of the country. Today, instead of SYRIZA talking about enlargement of islands, it would be nice to say: What is a Aquarium doing in Larissa? What's an island doing in the mainland? But, she, we said, was an island policy failed, fragmented and inadequate, an exclusion policy, could not even inspire that Mytilini and Lesvos are the same island. In this respect, this draft law answers the challenges of a new era, this intelligent ports and intelligent maritime transport. The establishment of the Blue Fund aims to promote a robust business environment to strengthen innovation and to provide electronic services in the marine economy. Further...(doesn't sound due to problematic connection to WEBEX)...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u373	It doesn't sound, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u374	Mr. Zebble, you don't sound clear, because you're moving, and I guess...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u375	I had a problem, an interruption, and I'm forced to talk from my office hallway through a cell phone. I'm making a great effort.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u376	We figured you had a problem. Repeat the last sentence, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u377	Furthermore, serving the same objective, the draft law creates a national single platform, implements the new technologies and modern trends of the port industry in the Greek port system in order to make it competitive on the globalised market. Of course, this is where the strong public investment in the NEARTOS programme is concerned, which should highlight the role of the island regions and provide all the necessary instruments and financial instruments for modernising the infrastructure, in the context of the five-year strategic plan for the elephant development of the island area. To conclude, I would like to point out that those who are talking today about depreciation and degradation of the Pilot Agency and of maritime risks were the same who had left the port of Chalkida without navigating, a port of national importance, which serves the largest industrial area, the Oinophilus region. Of course, this problem has been solved by the current government and Mr G. Plakkatakis, whom I warmly thank. Thank you. I'm sorry, 'cause I had a problem, and I had to talk...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u378	You're welcome, Mr. Zebble. And from Evia to go to Corfu and Mr. Alexandros Aylonite of SYRIZA. Here, Mr. Aylonite, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u379	Thank you, Mr President. [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[To enter page 556a - 556c]] Parliament of the Greeks today, the salvage year 2021. Coronary pandemic. Mr Mitsotakis' government legislates with the Greek people in his homes and completely and completely and diversely. In the Greek Parliament, Mr President, we are now enacting remotely, and the Chief of the Greek Police, who is responsible for all democratic prime minister, is issuing for the third time a federation that has been valid throughout the territory for banning meetings of more than a hundred people. If you leave the House and look to Ermos Street, in the first 20 steps, if you walk the street, you will see them walking and standing outside the windows of more than two hundred people. However, the police order is valid throughout the territory. All this, in the midst of the well-known media about the government's fabulous victory in the field of pandemic, which makes Greece the most effective against pandemic, the most democratic country in Europe, the world, the universe. The situation is, in fact, comic-tragic to me. Such repression, such a restriction on democratic freedoms, under the pretext of dealing with the pandemic, has never been seen by Greece. The Mitsotakis Government is declared to be the only government in the post-government state that every month issues a general ban on the suspension of Article 11 of the Constitution by police order of the head of EL.AS. She has a look at the protests tomorrow against the disgraceful bill for university police and the cutback of importers in universities and the growing wave of anger about her handling of health and the economy. And to note this, he's lying that he's got the expert committee's OK. It is a duty - I say this from this Step - for the left-wing and progressive parties to react collectively. Remind me again, Mitsotakis. His people have the right to appeal to justice when they are affected by their honor and reputation. Alexis Tsipras, no, can't protect his party, himself and his family. I think there should be a little shame in my view. What more can I say? Let me respect the legal science I serve and the civilization. The bill, Mr President. I come from the island area, Corfu. I have not seen a single thought recorded in the bill on how to strengthen our abandoned remote islands. Let me remind those who hear us and see us tonight that we have six thousand islands somewhere more than the two are inhabited. One million and fifty thousand Greeks live on the islands and I did not see a single line written in the bill, except for the verbalist title on the design of a totalitarian policy, on maritime policy and island policy. Our islands and residents want motive to stay there. They want a purely island policy, not a bill and a government to the benefit of the great interests. In my short time, it is unthinkable not to refer to the islands of our country, the islands of my country, Corfu, our Diaponding Islands, the association of Corfu, the Paxes and the intersection of our islands with Epirus and with each other. No reference to the bill to the specificity of the islands of the region. Two hours to go, Mr President, to Igoumenitsa by boat, by boat, and two and a half hours by Igoumenitsa, to come to Thessaloniki and four hours for Athens. Our small islands are isolated in winter. Infinite questions I have asked the Minister of Health about a doctor in the cross-cutting islands, an aeronautic in PPC, when we have a problem with damage to PPC’s network. Nothing. And are we now talking about a holistic approach to our island and maritime policy? In our small islands there are fewer and old citizens left. No financial incentive has been given to stay and go there. It is unnecessary to refer to the transport equivalent, which the government deliberately sabotages. It was said what happened in SYRIZA's era. I would simply like to say, in an incomplete way, about the equivalent of the port facilities that have been carried out in the overseas islands, but also in other small islands of our country, about the "Philodimos" programme, etc. As far as the bill is concerned, I would like to say that the text of the bill, in our view, is entirely vague, verbalistic and obscene. If someone was listening this morning to the speech by the rapporteur, Mr Ghika, it is certain that, as he has said, it is an overall picture, as I said before, of our island and maritime economy. Our rapporteur, Mr Michaelides, however, and also our parliamentary representative, Mr Santorinios, and the other speakers, have made it abundant and spoke of a bill that is battling to the side of major economic interests. And while we debate this bill yesterday, o of the miracle, in the absence of these policies, obviously following the takeover of the Holy Spirit, you tabled the two amendments, Mr Minister. They're inspirational! I'm being sanitized now. You have great reflexes within two days, after having heard the debate in the committee responsible, you have inspired them without making the necessary consultation, which you had and the bodies in the committee. We also had the bodies in the committee. The world is not lost for you, but the world is lost for those who fight in the ports and in the seas. You removed the critical responsibilities from the Port Regulatory Authority. You have seen the documents that have been sent today for the complaints by the Shipbuilding Association, the Perama Shipbuilding Association, the Piraeus Craft Engineer Association, and I imagine how many others have protested and denounced your policy. You almost remove all the responsibilities of the Port Regulatory Authority and the way you objectively legislate you serve great private interests, which are disturbed in their arbitrary actions by the application of the legality protected by the independent authority, i.e. the Port Regulatory Authority. You're practically extinguishing her. The regulation of such a serious issue, with a surprise, so that no opposition can be expressed and the committee I mentioned earlier, our committee, the Standing Committee on the Production and Trade of the House, can be sidelined. In my opinion, you are the first government to inactivate an independent authority, which is provided for in our Constitution itself. In other words, you are abolishing any possibility of monitoring RAL in the application of both Regulation 352 and other aspects of contracts. This is how audit procedures are being interrupted in relation to waste management at the Port Authoritys of Patras, Igoumenitsa, in my place, in Corfu and in Piraeus. You also remove all RAL's powers to issue directives for the adoption of Greek and Community legislation, which should be mandatory. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, very briefly. So many responsibilities have been removed. I'll say something else. With the second amendment, without any fundamental shame, you are reducing the fines submitted in the event of infringement of the legislation on working time and rest periods for seafarers from EUR 300 to EUR 500 per seafarer per case, applicable to Decree-Law No 187/1973 and at EUR 300 to EUR 1,000 per day. What protection will all these workers working 12 and 15 hours from now on have? And the only thing, whether it is twenty or a hundred or a hundred employees, can be fined against their employer for up to EUR 1,000, and now the fine hurts and is not dissatisfied, as you are trying to protect them. Finally, I think it is politically right to mention the complaints made by the Pan-Hellenic Federation of Commercial Shipping Officers requesting the withdrawal of Article 22, which provides for the possibility of exempting ships from compulsory navigation at ports and at the same time for zero payment of navigating rights to the public. Remember that there is the provision of navigating services, it is a compulsory public service. Remind me, too, of their request to increase by 150...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u380	Mr. Auslonite, you've spent time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u381	Such a bill and such amendments are not passed by my party. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u382	Be well. Thank you, too. Now we're going to Fthiotida, Mr. Themistoklis Himara from New Democracy. Mr. Himara, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u383	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, good evening. I would like to begin by responding to everything I hear from SYRIZA's colleagues, I think it will be in vain. I see that they are constantly taking advantage of the opportunity of plenary, regardless of the bill, and are trying to make politics, but a policy that people do not hear. I'm coming to the bill. Maintaining the economic and social cohesion of the island area is vital to our national economy and, of course, to our national sovereignty. This must not be ignored by anyone, but also by everyone in the biennial state, and how much more than by the central state. Unfortunately, however, the present situation of the island area does not reflect this common assumption. Problems that should have already been tackled continue to complicate the everyday life and ultimately the residence of the people on our islands, and have an impact on tourism at the same time. I had the luck of living as a student a few years ago in my beautiful and beloved Samos. I was living at that time, no doubt significant steps have been taken, but the truth is that even today there are problems with ferry and air connections, the lack of integrated funding programmes for the island area, the lack of basic infrastructure, the incomplete support for islands, the lack of agricultural island policy, the incomplete staffing and the organisation of public services and much more. We are all aware that the preparation of an integrated island policy was essential. European and national funds cannot be available, both from the NSRF and from the Public Investment Programme, and do not make full use of them. In recent years after the EIF, the NSRF of the current programming period 2014-2020, the Internal Security Fund and other sources had available financial resources exceeding EUR 1 billion in support of various actions, including port infrastructure. The absorption of resources, in particular as regards the 2014-2020 OP ‘Fisheries and Seas’, had significant delays by 2019. Of course, in December 2020, the invitations amounted to 91% and the enacted acts amounted to 86% of the programme, proving the good work done over the last year and a half by the Ministry of Shipping's political leadership and, of course, the programme's managing authority. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister, the Ministry of Shipping and the Minister himself have deep knowledge of the existing situation, so they have drawn up an institutional framework that can change the data in the way the Greek state is approaching the islands and islands. With today's bill, we lay the foundations for the implementation of an integrated, targeted island policy, which introduces, among other things, distinct financial instruments to meet the enormous needs: The NEARTHOS programme for the financing of infrastructure projects for port infrastructure, water supply, transport and water distribution networks, energy and maritime transport management interventions. The Island Entrepreneurship Financing Programme, which will cover the needs of very small, small and medium-sized enterprises in the island regions of the country and the Maritime-Blue economy, to promote innovative entrepreneurship in the maritime economy and blue-growing sector through national and European resources. I am focusing on these tools, because ports themselves can be a pole of growth, both at regional and at national level, and lead essentially to the stimulation of local economies and the strengthening of employment. By improving our port infrastructure we strengthen the capacity of the transport network, we improve the safety of workers, and we substantially upgrade the provision of port services. We support the increase in commercial and tourism activity in a group. I hope, Minister, that the financial instruments that we are establishing today will be able to be developed in a later stage in the next year and to include the coasts of the mainland, since they are equally important and efficient for the Greek economy. Fthiotida, from where I come, like many other regions, has extensive needs in modern port infrastructure. It has two major ports of interest, Agios Konstantinos and Stylis, smaller ports such as Glyfas and the port of Arkitsa, marinas, with increasing trends in passenger numbers, as well as significant fishing activity. The port of Styla, for example, if upgraded to infrastructure level, can be abundant to a business centre. I say this because it has the comparative advantages of its geographical location, since it is located in the heart of Greece, its direct link to the European Road Axis E75, the rail network, and it is also close to the E65, which is being completed in the coming years. At the same time, with direct access to the BIP of Lamia, it can create excellent development conditions in the wider region, attracting investments that will create quality jobs. Accordingly, the upgrading of infrastructure along the coast front of Fthiotis, together with the strengthening of local port services, can constitute a powerful economic, sustainable and inclusive development vehicle. Ladies and gentlemen, today's legislation is a coherent, comprehensive and realistic tool that will change the question of island policy for the benefit of our islands and the whole country. Its aim is to transform islands into an absolute and unique advantage for Greece. The support of our islands and islands, moreover, is not a question of a government, it is not a matter of a party. It's a national duty. I congratulate the leadership of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy for the methodical work and work it produces, which I am sure will gradually expand - through the cooperation and participation of all of us - across the coast of the island and the mainland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u384	Thank you, Mr. Himara. And since the beautiful Samos is your favorite, we will close with Samos and Mr. Ioannis Burnus from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u385	Mr President, Lesvos Law.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u386	Lesvos, I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u387	It's okay. You have fallen into the periphery! Ladies and gentlemen, once again the New Democracy Government brings a bill with the ambition of reconstructing a whole area of state policy in the direction it is concerned with, deregulation, neoliberal supposedly development, service of interests and environmental degradation. Secondary provisions, with which one might agree, but also supposed innovations are used as a wrapper, to pass what is truly of interest to you. You are talking about integrated maritime policy in the island area as if it were an innovation, without clarifying its relationship or its covertness with the island policy that has been a real political innovation and a very large deposit of our government. It was the first serious attempt to design an island policy and to integrate the principle of islandity into legislation and administration. In fact, while you want the policy of islands to be assessed, you have altered the composition of the Island Policy Council, with a drastically limited democratic representation of the islands by government and professional bodies and enhanced the representation of the government. You exclude, in other words, those who would evaluate your policies. The crucial policy of the transport equivalent seems to be disturbing to you, judging by the long-term delays in payments, and even at the very time when companies were struggling for liquidity. This is, however, the most important policy for the recognition of the islands and the special treaty defining the lives of the islands of our country. Contrary to such policies that have a real impact, you are persecuted by descriptions of policies that wish, without commitment or transparency of funding, without clear forecasts of budgets and European resources, without specialisation and objectives for improving the lives of the islands. Our government had brought a special development for the northern and southern Aegean, worth 100m euros. You, on the contrary, turn the Ministry, instead of a so-called state institution, into a service and distribution office for contractors and ruffet. More like a right-wing district minister, be placed than a minister. As you have systematically done since you came to the government, you are undermining and marginalising regulators of interests. You did so with the abolition of state aviation authorities at airports. You are now doing so with the amendment to the Port Regulatory Authority and its stripping of regulatory, regulatory and intervention powers in the supervision of concession contracts, the provision of port services and waste management, when you have already abolished the Public Port Authority. The purpose is obvious: Entities responsible for supervising and defending the public interest, for implementing legislation and respecting legality in public-private relations must be weakened, in order to obtain freedom of movement for various your actors and friends, such as the scandalous reduction in the fines in paragraph 5 of Article 114, imposed by the Port Regulatory Authority, in order to make more profitable the violation of the laws from their compliance. Or by removing the possibility of controlling the application of European Regulation 352/2017 to prevent the creation of monopolies in the management of ports. Or the provision in Article 22 of the bill of abolition of the navigation obligation to reduce navigation costs for shipowners. The importance of the changes you make to the Port Regulatory Authority will soon appear. The transfer of 16% of the shares in the HICP to 'COSCO' appears to run counter to the non-completion of the investments that COSCO had to have made at the end of the five-year period. What authority will be responsible for managing the matter and making such checks? The competence is now transferred to the Minister, but any decision by the Minister concerning a private concessionaire can be challenged by the courts, since the Minister, apart from an auditor, is also a contractor as a public representative. In fact, your maritime policy and the mechanism for client-sharing resources and a package of services to companies, concessionaires and shipowners has been completed. Less public control, that is, less democracy, but more immunity for your friends. I'll finish this. You are developing in the House today a comprehensive plan and a development perspective for the islands. Only the only development you have on the islands of the northern Aegean is refugee. Push in the middle of a quarantine, let and save the social reactions, make our islands a soul store in Europe, so that your few and chosen business friends, the ones who will build the new Cyts and take over the feeding and other services, but also to appoint through the "blue" mayors the children, the nieces and grandchildren of your local executives. Thank you, but we won't. You'll get back on her again, as you stepped on her last February in Lesvos and Chios. And when it comes, sooner or later, the time to judge, the people of the islands, the people you left in the pandemic, will answer you as appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u388	Thank you, Mr Burnus, for keeping time. I apologize, of course, for changing your island. And now good bills make good friends. One of the two talks is the parliamentary representative or speaker. We'll go backwards. I think two minutes is enough, Mr. Santorinier.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u389	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u390	You've been saying since morning. Mr. George Logiadis has the floor since Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u391	Many of these days have been heard in the committees and today. I would just like to give you a letter from Mera25 and I personally to Mr Tasoula, the President of Parliament, on the issue of the islands. We mentioned to him the following: "Mr. President, as a member of the Greek Parliament and a member of the Committee of the Regions and the Subcommittee on Islands and Mountains, I would like to express my proposal, as you will determine at regular intervals, if you agree, to visit members of the Subcommittee on Island and Mountain Areas from any politically blocking the winter island regions of Greece, due to the many tests of the inhabitants of these regions by the economic, social and political problems, indicative, refugee, continuing threats of Turkey etc. Such a decision, in addition to the major symbolic importance, will also have substantial value, because the National Representation itself will listen, support and convey the problems of these people to the heart of the decisions, seeking practical solutions to alleviate them. Finally, at the same time, a strong message will be given throughout the territory that the House of all Greeks is near the islanders, strengthening and forging their morality, symbolizing the nation's unity in dealing with their problems today's critical national circumstances." This proposal has been accepted by the Chair of the Subcommittee. Also, Mr. Dendias, whom we gave it, agreed. Mr Tasulas said 'no'. That's what I want to testify about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u392	Thank you very much, Mr. Loyadis. Mr. Hetas has the floor from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u393	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Placiotakis, the truth is, we're sad. You know, we don't see things as hot politicians in the Greek Solution. There are some cases, some bills, some topics, which we see with another eye. And we would like when we talk about such bills on our islands, on our islands, on the people of many people, to make substantial contributions to help these people. Because, indeed, people have drawn the pandemics, especially in our times, Minister, who are well aware that many islands are at risk of being replaced by a population, that the conditions, as they used to be, are not the same, because many of our islands live with fear, terror, the anguish of illegal immigration. As much as we have tried in a very good mood and seriousness, Mr Plakkatakis, we have seen nothing in the bill that helps our people and those who collaborate on these islands. We have not seen any aid from the many people in our islands, therefore, unfortunately. Because we must support them. That is where we need to focus, so that we can stimulate - and I have told you before - our local society, our fishermen and not just reduce unemployment. Minister, our islands are devastated. And you know it very well. What, then, are the actions that you have planned with local bodies? We'd like to see them here in the bill. We didn't see it today. Why bring in another bill? Why legislate to legislate? We spent so many hours today, while we could close the night today to dawn a better day for our fellow citizens, for the collectors on the islands. What is the action plan of your Government and your Ministry to stimulate local society in cooperation with the relevant ministries, such as the Ministry of Finance, and go by saying? We told you most importantly: you have not designated fishing zones. Finally, you also press this issue to leave the Ministry of Rural Development and to come to you. It's your responsibility. We asked you before - you did not answer - whether there is any purpose or reason described in our bill the Aegean Sea is divided, north into south. You're not reporting to the east Aegean. Tell us what's going on. Minister - and I close because it was a laborious process - give incentives as a government - it is simply things - to stimulate the local market in the islands, local entrepreneurs. And finally, because you too are a remarkable politician, make a difference. Get out of the process of 'legislation to legislate'. To bring substantial interventions to Parliament to help the collegiate ones. Nothing else. We really wanted in this bill, if there was a substance in it, we could vote for it. You just didn't give us that right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u394	Thank you very much, Mr. Heta. Mrs Diamanto Manolakou from the Communist Party of Greece has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u395	And on behalf of the JRC, we too would like to refer to the International Holocaust Memorial Day, the day of honour and the teaching that the struggle for the isolation of Nazi ideology must be continuous, without any tolerance. Of course, it's not a random choice on the 27th of January, because the Red Army released the broken ones and revealed the horror of the Holocaust to humanity. We don't forget. As far as the bill is concerned, all the legislative corrections you made do not seem to change anything in its essence. Although it was said that you would withdraw Article 17 and the legislative improvements, there is nothing for this rospheric article in favour of a particular shipowner. On the contrary, in Article 33 you have continuous legislative improvements. And yet, it is an article in military units such as the European Border Force, the possession of FRONTEX, the refugees and the movement. However, because in most paragraphs you regulate travel expenses, nights, compensation to the Port House and others, we will be expressed with'residents'. As regards the amendment to NAT's priced forms, in practice the Minister will have the main reason for the ministerial decision and the opinion of the eleven-member NAT Board of Directors, which is largely controlled by the Government and the shipowners. We're not voting for it. And I'm finishing up as I started my introduction. The pan-Hellenic strike of the personnel of the Navigation Service was a huge success. He had 100%, with great solidarity from a large number of pan-Hellenic associations, which shows the injustice of your article. This dynamic struggle attempted to stop, to stop the two companies of the Chinese monopoly 'COSCO', although not linked employers's to the Association of the Navigation Service and insulted the strike as illegal. The decision of the Court of Piraeus, which normally satisfys the business groups, is expected. However, a new, forty-eight-hour strike was declared and continues from 8.00 p.m. to 8.00 p.m. on Friday night. If you wish, Minister, to stop the strike, you may withdraw Article 22, in the interests of and protection of the safety of human life at sea and the marine environment. Do it at the last minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u396	Thank you very much, Mrs Manolakou. Mr. Dimitrios Biagis has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u397	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, since the first time in the working of the committees, we have been in the trouble of discussing, in substance, the proposed provisions from you, I believe that we have given our mark on the necessity of taking a firm step towards islands. I believe that we have really shown our intentions so that there can be a dialogue on the substance, which will also result in proposals and data, in stepping up the road to a better day for our islands. In spite of all the efforts we have made, we have not seen your own intention to discuss and jointly build this step which we all feel needs our country. On the contrary, on the eve of the debate in plenary you have also tabled two amendments. In tabling these amendments, I think that the glass has actually ended. These are two amendments. On the one hand, you actually come to abolish an independent authority, and the other amendment is, I would say, much more direct, not with regard to democratic rights, but with regard to the daily lives of thousands of our fellow people and workers around the ports, attacking the workers' work conquests in this area. We invited you to withdraw them so that we could discuss something that you did not do. We think the moments we're experiencing are unique. After a long period of time of the economic crisis our country experienced, the pandemic came and basically gave the charismatic shot to our islands and our islanders. We believe that every move we can make, which we must do, should not be postponed until tomorrow. In this direction, the Change Movement has tabled an amendment, Mr Minister, which we believe, if you really accept it, we will give a message of hope and optimism to the abbreviators who are following us and who are waiting from today's debate to get something tangible. We therefore call on you to accept this amendment, which is essentially to reduce differences between islands and the rest of Greece, and which relates to value added tax. For the very small islands under a thousand two hundred inhabitants, the current VAT is 60% lower, while in the rest of our islands 30%. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u398	Thank you too, Mr. Biaghy. Now we're going to the hard part. Mr. Nektarios Santorinios has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u399	You do understand, Mr President, and it is not right. I think that our position on the draft law and the amendments has been quite clearly tabled. I must, however, have specific answers and answers to questions and objections that have been raised mainly by Members of the New Democracy. Mr Brutsis told us if we solved the problems of islands. Obviously, the problems of islands have not been solved. When we started - and, Mrs Kalogerou, you were there - in Nisserro in 2016, when Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras talked about an integrated island policy with budget and specific funding and not in the air, as you are doing today, we had and knew that we could not solve all the problems. However, we have done most of the things. We proceeded one step ahead of islands. What you're doing today doesn't advance islandity, because it's just wishing. And I told you before that everything we deposited had a budget. What you are tabling has no budget, no funding framework. Because you told us about the barren lines, I told you that you did well and took them to the Public Investment Programme. However, the budget for 2021 says 75 million and not 138 and you have to answer how 75 will make it 138, unless that is in the logic of "we'll get the money", as if you were Jesus in Mount Sinai and had the food. The Deputy Minister told us that no island left without ferry transport in the pandemic. Really? Did you do a favor? Honestly, are these arguments from the State Secretary for Maritime Affairs? Of course, you have also given the terrible funding. You know, it's very useful to fund the line with Thera speedboat - Heraklion - Thera in December. I wonder how many passengers entered this line that you subsidised. We really need to know how many people got in. However, because I have said something positive to you, I believe that multi-annual contracts are very important. The study you call on, Minister, is a study that we started in cooperation with the Chamber of Naval and the SEEN, and I am very pleased that you are adopting such a proposal and I hope it will be financed by the Public Investment Programme and not by the Investment Bank. I expect you to present us with the list of 120 million now lost by both ERCF and VTMIS with the projects and supplies that will be made for the Port Parliament from the European programmes. And because you told us that we signed 'COSCO', yes, we signed it, but we had three bodies that will control the Convention: the Public Port Authority, which you abolished it, the Port Regulatory Authority, which we upgraded it, and the ESA, which cut off illegal extensions of the Master Plan of 'COSCO' and which, because it did not make you an instrument governmental body. And don't answer us for ral. You can answer the shipping operators, who are now denounced for what you are doing at the RAL. And I'm going to close up on a matter. In Article 26 we told you to put the Naval Agents' Federation on, and because for some reason you don't like them, why is that literally the case, you're going to take a certified naval agent on a draw? You're making fun of society? Are you kidding the Navy Agents? Are you kidding a club, a federation of agents? And I close with this and thank you very much, Mr President: the fines you are reducing for maritime work are not just at the expense of seafarers. It is mainly at the expense of ferry companies, which do not breach working hours. It's against competition, healthy competition. You are serving specific people who systematically violate maritime work and, unfortunately, are denounced by the shipowners themselves. They're the ones to answer. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u400	Thank you, Mr Santorinier. Mr Stefanos Gikas, the rapporteur from New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u401	Thank you, Mr President. I start by saying that, following all these twelve hours of discussion, I saw that, on the part of SYRIZA, SYRIZA colleagues, and especially on the first part of this bill - Articles 1 to 12 - presented a sterile opposition tactic and said various expressions. I am talking about this part, which is wider, which gives a perspective. When you say that it is a shell without content or when it is a "vacuum letter" or "empty shirts", they do not turn against the authors of the bill, but against those who say it, because they do not respond to the reality. I have heard colleagues say that there is no mention of the small islands and the very small islands. But can we say after twelve hours of discussion that there is no one in this bill in the first section - I am focusing on it - which is what we call the 'framework' to build the national strategy for the island area, a reference to the small and the very small islands? Of course there is! We have so many times analysed the "NEARCHOS", the Programme for Island Entrepreneurship, the Blue Development Programme. We have said what the general government bodies can do, which they have not been able to do for so long. They are given a chance, a way out. So, in the context of a misguided concept, I will say, a micro-political opposition tactic, 'we're just about to win the impressions'. I would also like to say and repeat what the Minister said. It doesn't change anything with the pilot service. It is supported by the Department of Planning. New people are hired. Markets for new vessels shall be launched, respectively. So there is no need to worry. It is simply a tactic that is followed in almost all countries. The Regulatory Authority shall also not be repealed. The State will, in any case, continue to have control. There are laws, there are procedures to be applied and implemented, serving national interests. To conclude, Mr President, I too should like to say and put my own voice to all the colleagues who referred to the Holocaust anniversary on the day of memory of so many millions of innocent souls. In fact, I come from Corfu, where there was once a blossoming Jewish community, which, unfortunately, was then destroyed. In these words, thank you. Of course, I believe that this bill promotes the national interest. That is why, of course, we are voting in favour of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u402	Thank you very much, Mr. Gika. We will close with the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, Mr. Ioannis Pakisotakis. Mr. Placatakis, iron after your adventure. I'm, at least personally, happy to see you again.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u403	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, I would like to express my warmest condolences to the unfair loss of the former Minister, Sfi Valyrakis. I would like to assure you once again, as I had the opportunity yesterday in my telephone communication with Mrs Valyrakis, that you must not have any doubts that the experienced representatives of the Port House will highlight every aspect and every point in this matter. Besides, this case is at the stage of the preliminary investigation and I have given an explicit order not to leave any shadow on this particular incident. I have complete confidence in the strains of the Port Corps. I will make one or two remarks, because most of them have already been said. All the projects that are part of our maritime border surveillance are financed by the European Union. It is also known that the European Union is aware of the fact that, for projects belonging to the Port House, for example, the ERCF - the national and strategic work that you have undermined, you have essentially responded with your olculity for four and a half years, your criminal oloculation - will also be exploited in military facilities. That is what the European Commission is aware of. So, whatever you say, whatever stumbling blocks you're trying to create, I categorically state that this project will be compatible in 2021. So, whatever you say, they are empty words. I sincerely want to thank all sixty-four fellow Members who spoke at today's sitting but also all those who participated in the public consultation of our bill, which shows that there is a huge interest in the development of the island area. I heard your criticism. I have heard your suggestions too. However, what I would like to say as a minister of this government and as a Member of Parliament, but above all as an islander, and you know very well that I am very much aware of my words - I would like to say to the last resident of this country, from the Departments to Kastelorizo and from Crete to Samothraki, that in the coming years it will be much better for our islands. And why am I saying that? Because the government has brought in an integrated framework for depositing a specific policy on the island area. Why, look out, what was missing all these years? The context was missing. And what do we describe? We describe specific objectives, measurable targets, indicators for the regional development of our islands and, of course, we describe specific financial instruments. Mostly, however, we describe mechanisms for evaluating our policy. That is what has been lacking, ladies and gentlemen, all these years. And can I tell you something? We will all be judged by our work and our actions. Everything is judged in practice. And here we will be in six months, which we have an obligation to submit the national strategy, immediately after the publication of the FEK, to assess the course of implementation of this draft law. In fact, I am not surprised that SYRIZA tabled a roll-call vote on specific amendments but also specific articles. Because the Party of Officers' Opposition continues to have political allergy to anything that is modern, to anything that is reformative. And you know what makes me more impressed? That you do not accept international practices on matters that have proved in practice and are safe and reliable. So our Government adopts best practices and promotes regulations that increase both efficiency and functionality. Corrects overlap of responsibilities and errors of the SYRIZA government. And, of course, we are moving towards a major reform work, a holistic approach and planning for the development of our islands. I'm sorry SYRIZA's stuck in the past. We, together with the vast majority of our citizens, take care of the future, the best future that we all deserve! Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u404	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles, amendments and the entire draft law of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy is adjourned: "The integrated maritime policy in the island area, provisions for compliance with international shipping obligations and the upgrading of L.S. - EL.AKEY. and specific arrangements for digitisation and in general strengthening the competitiveness of the Greek shipping industry in the post-COVID era." We are entering the vote on the principle, articles, amendments and the whole draft law, and they will be voted on separately. Ladies and gentlemen, on Articles 22, 25 and 30 and on Ministerial Amendments 717/17 and 718/18 of the draft law, a request has been made for a roll-call vote by Members of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group whose text is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u405	I will not read the list of signatories to the request for a roll-call vote because, given the special circumstances, we consider that there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for it. We are therefore adjourned for ten (10') minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u406	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. A roll-call vote on Articles 22, 25, 30 and Ministerial Amendments 717/17 and 718/18 of the draft law will take place here. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u407	I would like to inform you that letters and fax numbers have been sent to the Bureau, pursuant to Rule 70A of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, to which they give their vote. These votes will be taken into account in the calculation, which will be followed. [[The letters referred to above are lodged in the minutes and are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] Once you have finished, please close the electronic voting system.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u408	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce the outcome of a roll-call vote on the articles and on the amendments. A total of 300 Members voted. Preliminary ruling — High Court of Justice (Queen's In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 158 Members voted. Against this article, the 120 Members voted against. 'PARON' 22 Members voted. Article 22 was therefore accepted by a majority. Article 25: In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 158 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', they voted 142 Members. No one voted. Article 25 was therefore accepted by a majority. Article 30: In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 158 Members voted. Against this article, the 132 Members voted against. 'PARON' were voted 10 MPs. Article 30 has therefore been accepted by a majority. The Ministerial Amendment under General Number 717 and Special 17: In favour of the Ministerial Amendment, i.e. 'NAI', they voted 158 Members. In other words, 142 Members voted against the Ministerial Amendment, i.e. 'OH, 142 Members'. No one voted. The Ministerial Amendment No 717 was therefore accepted by a majority of 17. The Ministerial Amendment, Nos 718 and 18: In favour of the Ministerial Amendment, i.e. 'NAI', they voted 158 Members. In other words, 142 Members voted against the Ministerial Amendment, i.e. 'OH, 142 Members'. No one voted. Therefore, the Ministerial Amendment No 718 and a specialist No 18 were accepted by a majority. Members' positions, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u409	At the end of the roll-call vote we proceed to vote on the principle, on the rest of the articles, amendments and on the entire bill. The rapporteurs and the special speakers are requested to submit to the Bureau documents with their votes in order to be included in the official minutes of the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u410	Therefore, at the end of the vote, the draft law of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy: "The integrated maritime policy in the island area, provisions for compliance with international shipping obligations and the upgrading of L.S. - EL.AKEY. and specific arrangements for digitisation and in general strengthening the competitiveness of the Greek shipping industry in the post-COVID period, was accepted by a majority, in a single debate on the principle of Articles and of the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u411	I would ask the House to empower the Bureau for its ratification of the Minutes in its entirety.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u412	The requested authorisation was granted. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-27-S1-commons.u413	With the consent of the House at 23.55 the meeting for tomorrow, Thursday, January 28, 2021, at 10.00, on the subject of Parliament's work: legislative work: only debate and vote at first, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Health: "Signature a) the Donation Convention between the Greek Government, the Social Benefit Foundation called "John S. Latsis (John S. Latsis Public Benefit Foundation)" and the N.D. under the name ‘Athens General Hospital ‘C. (b) the donation contract between the Greek State of 4th Y.P. of 9.12.2020. Macedonia and Thrace, the Anticancer Hospital of Thessaloniki "Theagenio", Anna Maria Louise Ioannis Latsis and the Hellenic Anticancer Society and other provisions of the Ministry of Health, according to the additional agenda distributed.
