ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to inform the House of Wednesday's topical and urgent debate on Wednesday 22 September 2021. A. FOUR first-cycle Questions (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by Mr Alexandros - Christou Ausloniti to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Control in notices of OTA recruitment, which do not meet the principle of merit and equal opportunities." 2.H by number 1073/20-9-2021 a timely question by F' Vice President of Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Georgios Lambroulis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "The MEDIA and their families once again victims of the rubber protocols and the anti-scientific and contradictory decisions of the Government". 3.H by No 1069/20-9-2021 a topical question by MP B2 West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Aid and simulation of cleaning staff in the schools of western Athens". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "Organisation of the Law Council of the State (NCCC) and the situation of its officials and employees". The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 16 September to discuss the draft law at a single sitting in principle, on articles and amendments. With regard to the organisation of the debate, it is naturally proposed that the rapporteurs, the special speakers and the parliamentary representatives should be involved. A first cycle that will include one speaker from each parliamentary group and a 12-mile circle of speakers with the following ratio: Five from New Democracy, three from SYRIZA, one from the Change Movement, one from the Communist Party of Greece, one from the Greek Solution and one from the Mera25. With Webex platform teleconference service or physically present, a 12-mile circle of speakers is also proposed with the same ratio. The name of the speaker has already been assigned by the Parliamentary Groups by letters. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u2	The House has agreed. The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Vassiliou - Peter Spanakis, has the floor for 15 minutes. I would ask that the time be respected in view of the fact that speakers are too many, but also because there are many colleagues who also have other services in the committees. Here, Mr Spankee, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u3	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour today to present to Parliament the draft law of the Ministry of Finance for the Organization of the Legal Council of State. At the meetings of the committee responsible, there was an important discussion with both the rapporteurs and the special speakers, as well as with the relevant bodies. Everyone agreed that the draft law was in a positive direction and as the President of the State Law Council said, "the philosophy of the new plan for the organization is more democratic and effective in terms of the interests of the public and the service of the citizens." Any reservations from colleagues from Opposition about individual provisions by the Minister responded in detail and clarity, and he told us that it would bring improvements wherever, and if necessary. The Legal Council of the State is a single supreme state authority and is directly subject to the Minister of Finance. It is a constitutionally anticipated and consolidated institution with the 100ath article of the Constitution. The power of the Legal Board of the State is the legal support of the State, but also of the independent authorities and legal entities governed by public law. Today offices of a State Legal Adviser operate in the Parliament, the Presidency of the Government, in each Ministry, in important general secretariats in Piraeus, to independent authorities such as the Independent Public Revenue Authority, the National Transparency Authority, the Competition Committee to legal persons governed by public law such as e - EFKA, the National Health Services Agency, EEAY, the Fund for Deposits and Loan, as well as the largest universities in the country. In addition, judicial offices operate in twenty-nine provincial cities. Nearly twenty years after the adoption of the Implementing Constitution n.3086/2002 ‘Organisation of the Legal Council of the State, etc. It is necessary to reform it in order to make it modern, redesigned, flexible, accelerated and simplified. Contribute to the rapid administration of justice and to the implementation of the judgments of the courts, but also to greater transparency in the functioning of the Legal Council of the State. The same applies to Presidential Decree 238/2003 ‘Application of the provisions on the Law of the State’. This reform concerns the responsibilities, the structure and the establishment of the Legal Board of the State, as well as the service and disciplinary responsibility of its officials and staff. The aim of these changes introduced by the new Agency is the Legal Council of the State to upgrade and harmonise its services to modern challenges and to offer even higher quality legal services to the public and to the other bodies whose legal support is acting. To carry out its work in a more flexible, modern and effective way accessible to the administration and to the citizens, who will take advantage of the high scientific training of their employees and of the advantages offered by technology. The achievement of the above objectives is facilitated by the extensive digital transformation of the Law Council of the State which is already fully developed and is in line with the digital transformation of the rest of the public sector and of the courts. What, however, are the main priorities of the new Organisation of the Legal Council of the State? Priority: Digital transformation and electronic operation in line with the digital transformation of the rest of the public sector and of the courts. Priority: The restructuring and modernisation of the structure and operation by creating eight thematic formations to deal with similar cases and by emphasising the specialization and the economy of staff and resources. Third priority: Simplification of procedures, decongestion and elimination of bureaucratic practices and its contribution to the rapid administration of justice and the implementation of court rulings. Fourth priority: Strengthening the constitutional competence of the Law Council of the State for an ex-judicial or compromise settlement of disputes between the public and other bodies with individuals. Because, ladies and gentlemen, there have been reservations and disagreements from the Opposition on this issue, for my part, allow me to express my question as to why one might object to compromise and out-of-court resolution, while in any case this should be the main priority? It is a practice that applies to all modern systems. It makes a great contribution to the decongestion of the courts and to the rapid administration of justice and everyone is aware of our country's performance in this area. And, of course, this leads to savings and reductions in costs for everyone. Finally, the fifth priority of the Legal Council of the State and the Organisation to come is the update of the provisions relating to the general Staff Regulations of Officials, both as regards the conduct of the import contest, which is now regularly carried out every two years on a regular basis with new criteria and sorting, as well as the inspection, promotion and disciplinary law of the officials of the Legal Council of State. Among the most important changes made by the proposed draft law are: Modernisation, simplification, strict disciplinary law of the officials of the State Council. Improve the operating inspection system. For example, an independent Inspection Office is being set up, the evaluation criteria are being redefined, in order to comply with the increased modern requirements for the quality of work that a senior public operator has to provide. In particular, this bill is divided into four parts and consists of a hundred twenty-fifths of five articles. The first part concerns the tasks, responsibilities, the structure and the formation of the Legal Council of the State. The first Article defines the purpose of the present, which is to modernise the law-making board of the State, to speed up and simplify procedures with a view to providing a high level of specialised services to the State, but also to increase transparency in its functioning. Article 4 defines in detail the responsibilities of the Law Council of the State as the institutional representation of the State, the independent authorities, the legal persons governed by public law and our universities. The following Articles 5, 6 and 7 shall record in detail how the collective bodies of the Council of State, the Plenary Assembly, the Chambers, the Chambers and the Chambers of three-member committees are to be established, the quorum shall determine the quorums, the competence of the Committees to deliver opinions or to decide by means of acts on certain categories of cases. The way in which cases are handled is also simplified and accelerated. The responsibilities of the departments and of the Plenary Assembly shall be recorded. Article 9 sets out the functioning of the Legal Council of the State as a collective body. Article 11 speaks of the responsibilities of the Chairman of the Legal Council of the State, and the necessary changes are also introduced in view of the digital transformation, in particular as to how the mandates are to be granted, and Article 12 sets out the responsibilities of the President as a representative of the Greek democracy in the European Court of Justice. The same chapter clarifies the roles of the Central Office, the Office of the President and the Secretariat of the Legal Board of State, and the Directorate for Electronic Governance is also established. To say a few words about Article 16 and the formation of judicial and extrajudicial matters. It is important - I mentioned it earlier - that it is one of the main priorities of the new organisation. The proposed provision may be constituted by a decision of the Chairman of the Board of Legal Affairs of the State, on the subject of handling groups of cases. Today, there are three such formations and they were created as the need for specialised case defence was presented. These formations are expanding. In doing so, we will have much better to deal with assumptions that need specialized knowledge and a high level of expertise. The State Legal Board also operates the independent Inspection and Data Protection Offices. These are referred to in Articles 18 and 19. These changes improve the system of inspection of the officials of the Legal Council of State. Article 26 defines the general tasks of the officials of the Legal Council for faith and dedication in Greece and democracy, for the confidentiality they must observe, and their particular duties are defined after the assignment of a case to them. Article 28 speaks of the services' obligations to provide information, information, documents and anything necessary to support each case. In fact, denial, delay or allegiance to the fulfilment of this constitutes a disciplinary misconduct. I now enter the second part that takes over most of the bill. The first chapters deal in detail with all the official matters of the Legal Council of State, such as the organic positions, the hierarchy, the tender procedure and the appointments, their insurance obligations in respect of transfers, extracts, movements, licences, promotions of officials and others. It should be noted that the new written competition has already been launched. We then have the provisions on cases of the availability and public holidays of the members of the Legal Council of State. The sixth chapter, ladies and gentlemen, refers, among other things, to the Inspection Office, the powers of inspectors and the inspection of officials. In particular, Article 74 regulates the composition of the Inspection Office, its objectives and tasks. The employment of the members of staff is primarily exclusively for the purpose of acting on the inspections of officials and the evaluation of the staff units effectively, and in the following article all responsibilities of the Head of the Inspection Office are set out in detail. Article 77 provides for the first time that the evaluation of the departments of the Legal Council of State is to be carried out. This will be carried out at least once every three years. The evaluation, and especially when we talk about public officials, when we talk about public interest and public services, is at the forefront of our government's agenda. We want the evaluation. We import it into every relevant bill. But we are establishing criteria and merital procedures. We are boarding, on the other hand, but we are not punishing. We give incentives and opportunities. In this case, the evaluation is a useful tool in order to identify staff problems, shortcomings in logistical infrastructure, problems in cooperation and in general in the smooth functioning of the unit. Article 78 refers in detail to the inspection of the officials of the Legal Council of State. It is important that the improvement brought this bill to the inspection system which, through the proposed changes, is in line with the increased modern requirements for the quality of the work that a senior public operator has to provide. The seventh chapter includes Articles 81 to 102 and is dedicated to Disciplinary Law. It is worth pointing out once again that one of the key points that changes with the proposed bill is that the Disciplinary Law is stricter. And that is something that the ministers themselves agree with. This was also noted by the President of the Legal Council of the State at the meeting with the institutions. The third part deals with administrative matters. The last, fourth part, includes the authorised, transitional arrangements. Here, I shall refer to Rule 120. The Legal Council of the State shall draw up a report for each judicial year. This annual report shall be forwarded to the Minister of Finance and delivered to the President of the Parliament and presented to the Committee on Civil Service, Public Order and Justice of the Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law proposed is an important bill, it is part of the operation of the State's Legal Council. For the quality of the services provided. It is an adaptation to current data. It is accessible to public administration and citizen-friendly. It is, moreover, a bill that has been preparing for years. It was a demand and necessity to update the current legal framework not only for the digitalisation of the State's Legal Council, but for its full modernisation, in order to achieve flexibility, speed up and simplify procedures, decongestion, elimination of bureaucratic practices and greater transparency, both in the establishment of the Agency, as well as in its structure and responsibilities, in the service and disciplinary responsibility of officials and administrative personnel. It was understood in the process by the Committee on Economic Affairs and the discussions that have been made that it is a bill with which everyone agrees, most of them to be more precise. Everyone described it as a "very important bill" and concluded that the goal for a modern operation of the new organisation is common. Any reservations have been heard carefully, they have been answered in detail, proposals have been incorporated and other improvements will be made if necessary. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] For all these reasons - and I thank you very much, Mr President, for the time you give me - I call on all sides to vote in favour of the new institutional framework for the Legal Council of the State which has provided much for decades in public administration, the state, the citizens and the Greek society. However, today, we are also being asked to vote in favour of very important amendments, such as the amendment to the transfer of losses brought by the Ministry of Finance, the amendment to the Centre for Culture of Stavros Niarchos Foundation, the reduction of the withholding rate and the netting of ODA debts and important provisions for ODA, which the Minister announced yesterday in the committee responsible, as well as important provisions which come from the Ministry of Interior on measures to speed up projects and studies for the control and control of flooding flows, as well as many other provisions, such as the Ministry of Health for incentives for vaccination and extensions of regulation on COVID, as well as the amendment of the Ministry of Culture and Sport. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr. Spaniard. The SYRIZA rapporteur, Mrs Sultana Eleftheriadou, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to refer to an amendment tabled by Members of the SYRIZA and our fellow Member, Mr Friend, concerning the cleanliness of public schools, migrants and migrants who were not hired this year because they did not have Greek citizenship, even though they were hired last year. Let me remind you that the issue in question last year was solved by extraordinary amendment, and these people went to work, solving a constant problem of schools, the problem of lack of cleanliness. There is also a request from the Athens Municipal Council that all these people should be recruited because they are necessary and typically qualified, they simply do not have Greek citizenship. On the bill, this bill was posted in public consultation on June 5th, 2021 at eight o'clock in the morning and was open in comments until June 19th, just a few days, although the interest of readers was too great. Thousands of comments were made in the hundreds of twenty - five articles in the bill, many of which were closed and were not received comment. The comments and comments submitted show how incomplete this bill is on specific points. Also, no stakeholders, such as representatives of the judiciary, such as representatives of the Union of Judges and Prosecutors, were present at the conference of bodies directly, and they were not able to attend because of a technical problem from what I learned the representatives of the successors of the 2019 competition. I shall refer to this issue in detail below. With Article 100a of the Constitution, the Law Council of the State as a large body of administration becomes a constitutionally anticipated and guaranteed institution. The Law Council of the State is a single supreme State authority and is directly subject to the Minister of Finance. The competence of the Legal Council of the State lies with the state's legal support and the defence of its interests. We believe that the crucial role of the Legislative Council in the State is clear from the abbreviation of its responsibilities in Article 4. This draft law essentially attempts to re-establish the Council of State, since we are in front of a new body after almost twenty years of operation. So there is certainly a need for reform in its structure and function. There is certainly a need which the pandemic has shown even more, and it is crucial to renew and complement the human resources it serves in it. We have also said to the committees, and now we have also pointed out that the organic positions which exist at the moment are equally in line with the needs of the Legal Council of State. In particular, the two hundred and fifty-five judicial officers' posts would say that they are minimal in terms of needs, so you are forced into too many cities, whether there are or there are no judicial offices, to assign cases to private lawyers, according to this draft law, even criminal cases of particular public interest, at a very high cost for the Greek State. The articles of this bill contain provisions which give rise to questions concerning both their feasibility and their effectiveness and the impact on the functioning of the legal board and the defence of the public interest. Minister, we reiterated our specific remarks and objections to all the meetings of the committee responsible in specific articles, which you have, of course, ignored to date. We believe that today, as you announced yesterday that some modifications will be made, you will incorporate in this bill and our comments. I have to say it again. In Article 5, therefore, which concerns the possibility for disciplinary boards to meet by teleconferencing, we are firmly opposed. In particular for meetings of disciplinary boards, i.e. where there is disciplinaryly persecuted, the procedure should be close. The disciplinary officer should receive all documents of the disciplinary procedure with confidential correspondence and not as provided for in this bill by e-mail. It should also receive all disciplinary documents with confidential correspondence and attend the disciplinary board meeting. With regard to Article 7, departments and plenary powers, in particular Article 7(3), the possibility of convergence of the administrative Plenary Assembly should be established and, where requested by the General Assembly of the Union of Members of the Legal Council of the State, should be requested. Article 9 of the Law Council of the State as a collective body states that in specific cases, particularly for reasons of overriding public interest, the opinion of the minority may not be recorded in the opinion of the minority. This is really unacceptable and the improvement you have brought to this article that in order not to give a minority opinion, three quarters of the section or plenary will have to vote in favour of it. The problem is that the opinion of a minority, as in any judicial decision, should be recorded in detail, as is its justification, otherwise its non-registration with the collective, transparent and democratic functioning of the Legal Board of State and in many cases also presents a risk to the public interest, since the Minister or the competent authority cannot be informed of the opinion of a minority, which may result in the majority not being consulted or asking questions to the chambers or plenary. The courts of the Legal Council of the State provide that they may be appointed to the extent of the legal adviser of the State by decision of the President of the Council of State. The supremacy you have given the President of the Council of State is diffuse throughout the bill, beginning with Article 16, and there are too many articles in the bill, and that is unacceptable. You are creating a situation where the President of the Council of State, together in some cases with the Minister of Finance, decides on everything, for promotions, for the abolition of offices, for a merger of offices, for everything. So, in the case of promotions, there must be an agreement of the Administrative Assembly to avoid any unpleasant situations and to ensure that the whole process is done transparently and with dignity. The same should also apply in cases of merger or abolition of judicial offices. With regard to the abolition of judicial offices, at the moment neither the courts nor the Legal Council of the State are ready to abolish any judicial office. On the contrary, many judicial offices that have previously been abolished have been opened up, because there is a great need to represent the public by officials of the Legal Council of State in hundreds of cases. Even in provincial cities on the pins every day there are hundreds of cases of Greek public interest. Also, the courts have not yet joined the electronic system solon.gov.gr. However, even if everything were to be incorporated, you have extended the power, you put as the beginning of the application of Article 21 not the 15th -9-2022, as the bill was tabled, but you said that you would extend the scope for a year if I am not mistaken. In addition, however, in 2023 all courts will have joined the "SOLON" programme and the possibility of electronic submission of documents is available, there are procedures in both the administrative courts and civil courts and criminal courts which the officials of the Legal Council of State should be present in person. You understand that this will make their work very difficult, will intensify their work or you will choose the other solution to appoint private lawyers to hundreds of cases every day at the offices of the regional courts, resulting in the very great cost to the Greek State. Let me clarify that when a private lawyer attends a court, he pays the lawyer's note, which is at least a hundred euros in the simplest case. When an official of the Legal Council of the State is present, this exit is not paid. Only the salary of the Minister of Law of the State is paid and, of course, a qualified official may well defend the rights of the Greek State. Article 27 ‘Consensual Dispute Resolution’ is unprecedented, first and foremost. You are entitled either to a single official or to a plenary session to be compatible in the event of a judicial dispute with the Greek State. And how can it be reconciled? Suppose the Greek State would lose. And I told you that this provision is criminal. Then I made it simpler. I told you it poses a risk to the public interest. However, you continue to change nothing from this provision. Until now, in order not to take judicial action either the Legal Council of the State or any legal person governed by public law, represented by officials of the Legal Council of State, there should be a well-established case law of higher courts on the simplest, not to say irrevocable judicial decisions. How will anyone now come to suspect when his debt and his job are to defend the interests of the Greek State until the last degree, even if he believes that he will in the end lose? So this is a red line for us, Article 27. Please until the end of the debate you will see it again and perhaps bring some change, because we have come to this debate in good faith. For the organic positions of the members of the Legal Council of the State, I repeat that they are too few, especially the positions of judicial officers. Modernising the structure and functioning of the Legal Council of the State requires an increase in organic positions. An issue is being raised, which one colleague from another party mentioned in Rule 37. It says - and I agree - that the appointment of a member of the Legal Board of State does not apply to the special provisions of a law which introduce privileges for preferably occupying positions. Here you need to clarify whether the same applies to cases of AMEs, of physical weakness. Let's go to the contest. We are in favour of a regular competition. But there is a very great injustice here and I would like to add to what I have told the committees that all the previous lists of successors drawn up in accordance with Presidential Decree 238/2003 have been exhausted and all successful ones appointed. The only table from which not all successful ones were appointed is the 2019 table. And because there is a dispute about this, I would mention that in 2003 we had a 17-position notice. There were twenty-eight successful ones. They've all been appointed. In 2006, 11 posts were opened and we had 12 successful ones. They've all been appointed. In the 2012 competition there was a 20-seat notice, a 20-one-seat hit table and they were all appointed. In the 2013 competition, the notice was for fifteen posts, a table was drawn up of sixty three successful ones and all appointed. And the participants in the 2019 competition waited six years to open a competition - six whole years - and to absorb all the successors of 2013. And now you come and what are you doing? Choose before the early end of the table, i.e. the 30th-9-2020, to cover only the four of the thirteen spaces that were empty at the time. Minister, there is a very big injustice. I do not want to repeat what we have said in the committees. People, these children, have a request that with many sacrifices they waited six years, participated in the contest and succeeded in the contest, waiting for you to vindicate them. It is not too late, even today, by transitional provision, to start the entry into force of Article 40 for regular competitions, after recruiting the successful ones of 2019. For Disciplinary Law, we have had too many objections. Disciplinary Law becomes stricter. I have heard your rapporteur say that he is proud to become the Disciplinary Discipline. Mr. Spankee, the Disciplinary doesn't just get tighter. It is stricter than for judges on too many points. Disciplinary Law does not simply become stricter, but it is done by teleconferencing the whole process, the documents are engaged in e-mails, the redefinition becomes more stringent, the education licence is not possible due to the preparation of a doctoral thesis, the education leave for ages more than forty-five is impossible. The individual operational records shall include it being. The contents of these files do not have to be defined at the outset so that they know what is going to happen and what is not, there are unclear concepts of the evaluation and development of the officials, compared to equal grades, it works without any specified criteria and all that we have told you in the committees. Minister, we really want to vote as many of the provisions of this bill as we can, because we really believe that it is necessary to remodel and modernise the structure and operation of the Legal Council of State and we really believe in the Legal Council of State that all these years it really supports the interests of the Greek State. With your provisions, however, with many of the provisions you bring, you achieve exactly the opposite result. We hope that by the end of the debate you will bring the changes that you have promised us and that we will be able to convene in even more of what we have converged and not included in our remarks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Eleftheriadou. The reason is now the special speaker from the Change Movement, Mr Constantine Scandalidis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u7	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Minister, I will start from the answer you have given me on the point of view I have made of the impulse in committee. I think you have made a misunderstanding if we believe that there is a budget space which, because of the government's policy, has been widened and can therefore be used in specific directions that are the benefits, the possibility of making benefits in different directions. We have never doubted that under the current procedure in our country and the resources it has to make available could widen the financial space, perhaps under the objective conditions of the development of economic issues in the country. We disagree on the direction of benefits. For example, we think that, with all the measures that the government has taken so far, businessmen are actually being strengthened and, indeed, unequally. It does not help the businesses that are close to going bankrupt. You also provide benefits, generally slime, small incomes and here selectively. But refuse, on the other hand, to deal with the accuracy and unacceptable appreciations that bring an unequal equilibrium to giving and receiving incomes. In our view, there is a way of moving the government in another direction, connecting benefits to companies with particular investments, so that we can also see tomorrow's business in addition to the receipt of money by entrepreneurs. And, secondly, that the market and prices for first-hand goods should be strictly controlled. And don't tell me the market rules are forbidden. Here are exceptional circumstances and Spain has already put a cap on some products. Even the issue that seems to be fairer and lower, in our opinion, is neither fairer nor lower. It is lower for the few, because for 5% of the richest owners it is virtually zeroed through the parental benefits and the abolition of the supplementary tax and it is higher for many based on the change of objective values and the provision that exists for the coming months and years. So here, too, we have a difference of philosophy, a difference of direction, a difference of policy. It's the picture of the next phase for our country. Unfortunately, your policy will be bankrupt businesses and the poorness of the non-preferential Greeks wherever they are. To close, in this regard, an ideological political issue linked to this is this: we are following the confrontation of the two gladiators in favour of representation of interests and the prospect of the middle class. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that you are speaking in a foreign barn, a stranger to your politics, your ideology and your space. On the amendment, first of all, I should like to say our two positive points on the question of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, but above all on our defence industry. Survival and the development of the war industry for us does not only serve the country's defence and its deterrent capacity, especially at this time when the war industry is a privileged place to achieve added value more easily than other sectors. So the development of the war industry, and first of all its survival, we think it is very positive and certainly must be supported by the government, and it is noteworthy, if it is true, as far as its current situation and future are concerned. I now come to the issue of deferred taxation. The deferred tax requirement of the banks constitutes the major part of the capital base of the banking system. Until the restructuring, the Government rejected the Bank of Greece's proposal to set up an asset management company to transfer unserved loans to their net book value and then to be securitised in real market conditions. The transfer, according to the Bank of Greece, in their net reporting value provides incentives to banks with a high index, while market-based securitisation increases the liquidity of banks, strengthens organic profitability and improves the quality of supervisory capital. We recall that the three systemic banks have already made progress in corporate transformation, which is a tool to prevent the activating of existing legislation. In the case of Piraeus, the company transformation followed an increase in the share capital with a levelling-off effect for the interests of the Greek State, as well as for the private shareholders, except for three shareholders that were created by the process in investments of the foundation stone. Your amendment provides that the debit difference from the exchange of Greek public-sector bonds with the guarantee of the Greek State pursuant to the Greek State's programme of participation in the rescheduling of the Greek debt is to be deducted as a priority from the credit risk difference from the gross revenues of the above legal persons. You have a objective, obviously, to avoid a significant one-off reduction as a result of the tax depreciation of accumulated losses of loans. This is why a more flexible use of loan losses is allowed within the 20-year amortisation period. What's our stand? We recall that the Change Movement had already proposed, in April 2017, the creation of Bad Bank for the management of business loans, without our proposal to be exploited either by the Government of SYRIZA - ANEL or by the current government. Furthermore, following our proposal, on 19 February a debate was held in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the relevant subject. In this debate you, in collaboration with Mr. Zavvos, continued to say that HRAKLIS is enough to raise the burdens of the banking system and again rejected our proposal and the Bank of Greece. So you must inform us of your intention, even now that the bank responsibility has returned to you, since Mr Zavvos is no longer in the government. And, okay, these are Prime Minister's choices, we can judge how they are done. The provision you bring confirms the view that excessive faith in the potential of “HRAKLE” and corporate transformation is unrealistic. Indeed, in the case of Piraeus it has been shown that the potential damage to the public and private sectors can be disastrous. The banking system demonstrates every day that it fails to perform the financial role effectively at a very critical moment for the Greek economy and while liquidity from the European Central Bank is huge. On these issues, you must respond sufficiently to this in order to determine our position and so that by the end of the day we can support or vote against this provision. We are now entering the issue of the bill. Twenty years have passed since the implementation of the Constitution of law, and obviously the time has come to reform it, in order to have modernisation, redesign, flexibility, speed up and simplify procedures, contribute to the rapid administration of justice and to the implementation of the judgments of the courts, but of course also to greater transparency in its functioning. The importance of the draft law is therefore quite great, because it is historically an institution that operates about a century and a half, that its officials are present at all national courts - administrative, political, criminal - at the Court of Auditors, at the Special Court, at all the European and national institutions and which handle more than fifty thousand judicial cases of the State and bodies representing each year and participate in six hundred and twenty-five committees and councils operating in the narrow and widest public sector and guide the administration with legal advice and opinions. The new organisation has some key priorities, with which it is very difficult to disagree. What can one say about his digital transformation? What can he say about restructuring and modernising its structure and operation, simplifying its procedures, strengthening its constitutional competence for extrajudicial compromise resolution of disputes and updating the provisions concerning the general property situation of its officials, in general its staff, promotions, disciplinary law and others? They're positive targets. We told you by the committee something very important, that we consider the procedure to be very important and positive, in which you brought the relevant draft law to Parliament and to the proposal, which was essentially integrated with the administrative bodies, the Association of Members of the Legal Council of State through a dialogue of seriousness both through their own proposals and also with regard to legislating. Because for us it is very important - and I stress it again, I have told the Commission - that it should not take place in key institutions which have exhausted their ability to produce the work in new conditions that are required, that there should not be a gradual and individual enlargement - let us say - or individual changes, but that overall reform should take place in order to bring the agency into a new era. I therefore believe that this process of shaping and its content must also come to our vote in favour because it really concerns an exceptional function of your Government - I repeat, exceptionally. The other bills are genograms in their overwhelming majority. On substance, you will first of all proceed to a thematic reorganisation of the central agency described in Article 16 and the reorganisation of the offices of the Legal Council of State and of the special offices described in Article 21. On these two issues we have had some serious differences. With regard to the thematic reorganisation of Article 16, the three existing structures will be incorporated into the new structure and, at the same time, there will be five others which will be formed and which, in our opinion, express real needs, that is, genuine specialisation and division of the huge work that the Legal Council of State has and could not question the correctness of such a way of building additional structures and therefore legal consultants specializing in this matter. Here I had an objection, which is literally about this grand organizational chart and its process of implementation in time and manner. Here you will allow me to question this possibility, and we would like you to guarantee us and tell us which conditions, under which procedures, at what pace and at what times the implementation of this agency will be completed. As far as the second point is concerned, we believe and believe to a certain extent that this legislation does not serve to ensure that the legal services are provided by reason of the spatial distribution of the offices of the Legal Council of State, which are currently scattered everywhere and you want to gather them. We also welcome the fact that you have agreed to go to appeal regions too, apart from administrative regions, to establish offices. I would like you to see this with even greater attention, because it will be a suspensory process, once you multiply and specialize in the subject. Of course, our controversy remains and our opposition to the President's overpowering to make decisions on his own as far as this procedure is concerned. The administrative plenary should be able to participate actively in decisions and transformations, so that they can be implemented in a concrete way. It is a question of a contrast between the centralised model that at all levels of the administration you also choose in our own perception that is much more decentralised and, in our view, more effective than your own centralisation. On the basis of these remarks, Mr Minister, we are waiting - if you wish - for your views on these issues and we will determine, apart from our vote in favour at first reading, our position in the debate and, finally, in the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr. Scandalides. The reason is now the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Maria Konnakas. Here, Ms. Konnakka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, firstly the consistency in tabling your amendments was exhausted early, four more were tabled last night and we wonder if we are waiting for more. Of course, what remains the biggest problem is this poaching, and at some point it must be stopped. We asked you yesterday about the amendment from the Ministry of Finance that was incorporated into the bill. But it has again been incorporated as a single article, so we cannot prevent us from voting separately on the completely different provisions that it includes, for example, the articles on ODA, which we have told you we do not disagree, but we are bound by our opposition to other serious provisions of the amendment, such as the legalisation of the mission of personnel from the Armed Forces outside the borders to missions that do not, of course, have any connection with the sovereign rights of the country, weakening its defence capacity, and at the same time creating other risks to the people of our country that you have converted into a magnet of hostile attacks. Now, in relation to the bill, in order to be able to place itself and judge the new body of the Law Council of the State, one must first answer a key question about the nature and role of such a body in the civil state. In their positions, all other parties stress the importance of the Legal Council in defending the public interest, i.e. the financial interests of the State, which has indeed been entrusted to it by the Constitution. However, in order to really understand the essence of the nature and role of such a body, the question arises: Can the so-called 'public interest' currently be of a general, neutral nature? Is it - let me speak - a united interest in all, in particular, the great majority of the people? In this critical question alone, the JRC responds clearly that in an urban state, which has at its heart the safeguarding of capitalist profits, the competitiveness of the economy that serves the rules of this free capitalist market, objectively, the public interest is determined on the basis of the rules imposed by this sovereign order. Therefore, the legislation which the Legal Council is called upon to implement is not enough to protect the genuine public interest, but is in line with the interests of large capital, domestic and foreign. The predetermined framework, for example, today is the anti-linguistic prerequisites of the Recovery Fund, namely the new'super-Monthly' which loads new burdens on the people, to share money with the large business groups, the green digital transition strategy, translated into new weights and precision, energy poverty for the people on the one hand and on the other, new privileges in the 'green' business chapter. Was these interests not served by all three previous Memorandums, the hundreds of implementing laws? And on that, of course, you all meet, you share the same strategy and you call it a public interest, which is why you are limiting your confrontation mainly with details, so that you can rise conveniently and tons. It is characteristic - let us say - the example of the criticism of the committees by SYRIZA to remove from the responsibilities of the Legal Council of the State the legal support for the Interministerial Committee on Restructuring and Privatisation on matters relating to the procedure and the conditions of the deprivation, which, of course, has also been speeded up by the Minister to avoid - saying - misinterpretations. The essence of the matter, however, lies, firstly, in the fact that you do not disagree with the sale of public property, in which the SYRIZA Government continued from where the New Democracy Government and Tubalin had stopped today and the PASOK, and secondly, the Minister's confession that this possibility was never used by any government in twenty years of the validity of the provision is also the greatest confession for the decorative role of such arrangements and institutions in general, which the government in question has the opportunity to circumvent, when it considers necessary. Especially nowadays, with the increasing compatibility of the state with the large business groups, public-private partnerships, privatizations of public-private property, and so on. After all, this is the basis for scandals, whether they be cases such as 'SIEMENS', 'NOVARTIS', or any other cases which are sometimes on the surface, which, of course, both the government and the other urban parties, after exploiting for their own small-party interests and the disorientation of the people, in the end in one way or another, they are actually covering them. Truly, the famous opinion of the Legal Council on the NOVARTIS case, which recognised the enormous damage suffered by the Greek State and urged the state to claim compensation, what happened? Hey, he went where they went and so many other similar! In order not to go back, of course, and remember the famous opinions on the Vatopedio case, which demonstrates that the great private and diverse interests, such as the majestics of public land, public service wings and various other big businessmen, are sometimes pushing for even more favourable treatment, sometimes succeeding in overhauling opinions and judicial decisions cut and sewn in their measures, if they do not, of course, achieve scandalous amendments to existing legislation that are being circumvented even the basic rights of the people. In other cases, of course, the Legal Council is being used precisely to give legality to predetermined anti-grassroots guidelines and policies, when even the way in which the questions are raised by the respective government actually defines the content of the opinions. It is characteristic, for example, in questions relating to wage content or to the service situation of personnel that these must be accompanied by the views of the relevant Office of the Ministry of Finance, the General Accounting Office of the State and the views of the Ministry of Interior. Aren't these opinions giving the direction? That is why there is a very problematic possibility of this new really allowing Article 9 of the non-registration of the minority opinion in opinions on issues which are deemed to be of superior public interest and which does not alter the substance of the criticism the Minister has made for the required 3/4 of the votes cast, with which you have tried to gather the reactions that exist. What is the risk that you suddenly discovered in the public interest from recording a minority scientific opinion? In the same sense, could one be understood in a judicial decision to exclude the registration of a minority as a dangerous allegedly in the public interest? I guess the exact opposite happens. Its hideout is the one giving rise to dangers and questions. How true is the organisation's operational independence, when its own leadership, the President of the Council of State is appointed by the respective government, much more so when this body is entrusted with very increased tasks and powers for the President, as set out in Articles 11 and 12, but also in various other scattered articles, demonstrating the intentions for the role you reserve in the Legal Council of State. And when, for example, a number of issues relating to the staff situation of officials depend solely on the President's judgement and entirely subjective criteria, both with regard to promotional qualifications and, in particular, with regard to the issues of placement, extracts and movements of members of the Legal Council and, in particular, with vaguely anticipated terminologies, such as the behaviour and manner in which the officials perform their duties create problems in the service? Who's gonna judge that? The president? While with only the President's judgement of unjustified delay in answering questions, there can be even a lack of wages. Who actually sets these criteria? In any way, that is to say, the possibility of pressure on the members and officials of the Legal Council is increasing in order to discipline themselves in the directions which the government seeks to impose. Thus, the members of the Legal Council of the State are faced with this legal and political reality which does not allow them to serve the well-known public interests, but imposes them the exact opposite. At the same time, it is well known that they are faced with the serious shortages of their service mainly in staff and also in logistical infrastructure, which, of course, together with the continued increase in the volume and complexity of the material they are required to carry out, will lead to an increasing intensification of their work and, indeed, under reduced remuneration conditions. The fact is that even the digital transformation and electronic operation of the State Law Board are being used to further intensify the work of members and employees and to merge the departments. At the same time, of course, they create new dangerous issues for the processing of personal data. In the direction of a uniform and more effective implementation of government policy for the benefit of all the business groups, it is also intended to harmonise the handling of cases by the merger of departments and the creation of legal themes, at the sole discretion of the president, thereby undermining the existing personal and operational independence of its members, as well as the enlargement and systemicisation of the award of public affairs to legal corporations, as well as the procedures for out-of-court dispute settlement. It is a typical example of the recent past, the assignment to a British law firm in London of representation and legal handling for drawing up the country's loan contract, the well-known memos, which had then been discussed and strongly criticised. Where, in other words, you are interested, you are making sure that even these commitments of the Legal Council go beyond them. It is even characteristic that the criteria for the permanentisation of the judiciary, as laid down in Article 64, are tightened up with the possibility of extending up to one year of the two-year trial period. What really are these kinds of obstacles to the permanentisation of proxy, when they themselves have proved their scientific adequacy through their participation in demanding competitions? You want to increase the pressure and control on the judiciary, turn them into more persuasive bodies. At the same time, the establishment of the independent inspection office, the way in which it operates and its composition with a decisive role here and here, and the introduction of new criteria for evaluating members of the Legal Council, are precisely aimed at their more powerful manipulation, of course, along with the new more stringent disciplinary law. The provisions relating to the powers, the structure and functioning of the Law Council of the State, its relationship with the Government and its attitude toward its own officials are complementary to each other and strengthen that nature of the Law Council of the State. That is why we will vote against all of them. But even with regard to administrative staff, for example, you have responded to the self-evident and permanent requirement of a single working relationship by transforming people into permanent organic posts, with which, of course, we do not disagree, but remains the central direction of intensification of working conditions, as well as the manipulation and control of employees through evaluation, stricter disciplinary procedures, with all sorts of cash and sometimes unacceptable criteria. Minister, I left for the end the well-known issue of the undetermined successors of the 2019 competition. The answers you have given so far are a classic case of reversal of reality and insult the intelligence of all of us and especially of those children who are struggling for their future. The extension of the list is not an exceptional one, a special treatment for those who are successful, but, to date, a permanent practice followed by the public, an exhaustion of the list of successful ones - and, moreover, there is no table of participants - beyond the original positions, as was the case for all the competitions to which the previous speaker referred. In particular, in the last competition in 1913, which was opened for fifteen posts, a table was drawn up and sixty three successful ones were appointed, this led to the waiting for six years for all these children to be able to participate in a new competition, so that many of them also reach the upper age limit. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And what are you telling them today? That in an arbitrary way you deprive them of the possibility you apply to all the previous participants in the competitions. The introduction of the regular invitation to tender could be positive, but it can only be a matter of future candidates, not of a surprise to those who have already formed a legitimate confidence and expectation of their appointment, and indeed on the basis of your own actions. So, in fact, you put them in dissatisfaction and unequal treatment when, for example, they were initially given the validity of the competition until April 12, 2021, while there were empty organic positions that were not covered before the sudden end of the table on September 30, 2020. In fact, you did not cover the entire ones, nor did you cover the ones you created by the same law. So explain to us what criterion you choose to stop the table in the seventh, instead of the seventeenth, second, etc., when it is known who the successful ones are, thus creating reasonable suspicions of distinctive treatment? So what criteria do you play the lives of young scientists in the dice by overthrowing their professional and personal planning, which they have shaped with many sacrifices so far? For the last time, then, we invite you to stop this injustice at their expense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Konnakka. The reason is now the special speaker of the Greek Solution Mr Vassilis Viliardos. Here, Mr. Villardo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, as we have said in committee, this bill concerns the reform of the Legal Council of the State, of Law 3086/2002, with a view to modernising and improving its operation. Generally, now, the Legal Council of the State, which was set up in 1882, is as follows: firstly, the public lawyer, who represents it in all the courts - national, Union and international - secondly, his legal counsel, who consults and guides the administration and, thirdly, the judiciary that recognises extrajudicial claims and is compatible with disputes arising between the public and private individuals. The specific threefold role of the State Law Council was recognised and reflected in the Constitution, where its function was shielded and guaranteed for its members, which apply to judiciary officials. The Legal Council must transfer the centre of gravity to the constitutionality of a law, and its opinions must be impartial. In combination, of course, there should also be a constitutional court, such as in most countries, even in Skopje or Turkey, so as to examine the constitutionality of a law and have universal effect. It is something that we constantly mention, and it is a key part of our programme, the Greek Solution Programme. Why isn't there in Greece? Obviously, because it prevents it and does not want the country's political elite to engender power. The powers of the Legal Council of the State are now referred to in Article 4 of this draft law, where, in relation to the law revised and under Article 2, we have been struck by the exclusion of the power of legal support from the Interministerial Committee for Reconstruction, particularly in matters relating to the process and the conditions for the implementation of the destabilisations. In this regard, we assumed that the lenders, whom all of our public property has been pledged with the criminal PSI, are not allowed to do so. It was transferred to the supreme foreign office, in essence, with the third memorandum, which was passed together by the "troika of the interior" - that is, the New Democracy, the Change Movement and SYRIZA - which today stands informally, judging by the support of most of the draft laws of the Government. However, the Minister promised us that he would add it by legislative improvement, which we obviously appreciate and expect, of course, to do. However, we must note here again that the House is not even informed of the sale of public property, such as the recent Egnatia, the DPRK and the 49% of the UN. The government, having an absolute majority of fifty - eight MPs, of which 50 were granted free of charge by the electoral law, plus the support of the two other conscientious Memorandums, literally, decides and orders. Is it not unacceptable that a government elected by a majority of only 58% of Greeks and, in fact, elected only eight MPs, decide on such serious matters as the sale of public property? Now, with the report, the programming of the years 2018-2021 provides for the digitisation of functions, the decongestion of the Legal Council from small cases of low economic interest and its contribution to the more rapid administration of justice by not exercising unfounded legal remedies. The other function of the Legal Council, and indeed of the Development Council, is on page 139 of the report. We are talking about its contribution to the system of protection of products of designation of origin and geographical indication at Union level. We all know what happens with the imitations of Greek yoghurt in Germany, feta and many other products of ours, for which, unfortunately, the government, the state in general, is doing absolutely nothing. In the first part of the bill, now, the responsibilities of the Legal Council are described again, a deadline for the adoption of an opinion of the Legal Council, the limits for the adoption of practices in judicial and extrajudicial matters of the public and of the ADP are introduced. However, the AIA does not, in fact, fall within the public domain. They also cover organisational issues, the creation of another address and two sections at the head office of the Legal Council of State, the establishment of offices in public bodies, the reduction of the Regional Judicial Offices of the Legal Council in eleven, the tasks of the Legal Council and the establishment of an extrajudicial solution. In addition, the definition of legal corporations or lawyers is laid down to assist the officials of the Legal Council, either in matters of a high economic object or in difficult legal matters. In the second part, the organic positions of the Legal Council, the qualifications and the appointing prerogatives shall be defined, the notice of invitation to tender every two years for filling in vacant organic positions and the relevant procedures. In addition, cases of legal defence are defined for the officials of the Legal Council, the authorisations and benefits of staff, the promotion of staff and transfers, the inspection of the offices and functions of the Legal Council, the disciplinary procedure, penalties and fines are laid down. The third part shall also cover organisational issues, such as the allocation of organisational positions of qualified staff, the assessment of administrative staff, the selection and placement of Heads of Directorates and Sections, as well as the provisions on the Staff and Disciplinary Board. The fourth - and last - part includes transitional and final provisions. Generally speaking, however, there is neither a lack of, nor a lack of, in this bill, common excessive authorisations to ministers to regulate matters which should be regulated for reasons of transparency and only by means of the parliamentary process, such as the permanentisation of trials of judicial prosecutors and the promotion of officials from the Legal Council of the State. Nor are there any ‘derogations’ relating to the locations, transfers, movements and secondments of officials of the Legal Council. We note that we disagree with both, with the supremacy of the Ministers and the "within" provisions in every bill to be voted on, not just in this particular legislation. A problematic point is also the alleged assessment of administrative staff, since, in fact, it refers to a kind of internal evaluation by a special committee, made up of members of the relevant Board of Directors. In simple terms, it does not appear from anywhere that this committee is specific, but exactly the opposite. We should also point out the strong involvement of the Minister of Finance, both in the disciplinary procedure and in the setting up of overtime groups, which will be paid particular attention - who will judge it, in fact - when there is a special service need. Finally, emphasis is placed on the President of the Council of State, the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Justice, who is given the authority to decide on their own and without limitations on any particular subject. Thus, through the authorizing provisions, a real legislator becomes the Minister. In this regard, the only expenditure foreseen by the General Accounting Office of the State is EUR 35,000 for operating expenses and posting allowances, annually, from new units of the Legal Council and EUR 41,400 for their equipment. These amounts are very little, in our view, so we ask ourselves whether they actually apply, since the General Accounting Office of the State does almost never make proper calculations, and most of the time it does not at all. In the hearing of the bodies during the chairman of the Legal Council with the current draft law, the structure and functioning of the Legal Council is upgraded, its digital transformation is strengthened and its philosophy becomes more democratic and also more effective in order to better defend the public interest. Always according to the president. In this respect, we can only respect its view, not least by noting that, in the Chair of the Association of Members of the Legal Council, the digital remodelling system introduced in the last six months has several malfunctions, while the transitional period lasts for a long time and burdens its executives. As regards the President of the Chamber of Economic Affairs of Greece, we regard his comments as reasonable in Articles 107, 108 and 110 and in particular in the fact that it is unacceptable and dangerous for the public interest to place non-economic graduates in positions of responsibility for economic matters. In any case, it was a good thing that the Ministry of Finance was working with the Legal Council of State on this bill, as at least the Minister and the chairman of the Legal Council assured us. In hoping, now, that these bad texts will be corrected, we would like to point out that according to comments and testimonies from lawyers we know from the Legal Council, it is perhaps the few, if not, the only body that fulfils its work to an exceptional extent. According to them, citizens and lawyers who represent them may in many cases feel wronged by the development of cases against the State, but this is mainly due to the proper legal representation of the members of the Legal Council of State, while it is not the officials of the Legal Council that judges are particularly sympathetic to the public or to the exhaustion of legal means by the public, but the system and legislation. Obviously, the officials of the Legal Council would have liked to have been able not to bring legal proceedings, especially in clear cases, if the legislator allowed them to do so. The Legal Council of State itself, however, obviously after political intervention, requires, in a way, that civil servants do not participate freely as witnesses in the courts in support of truth and law, only in support of the public and in no way against it, unfortunately, even if they can contribute something important for the adoption of a judicial decision, threatening them with penalties and disciplinary proceedings, and thus threatening to cause, not only damage to the citizens, but also harm to the very concepts of law, truth and justice that we all have to be interested in. Worse, in this draft law, this possibility is founded, since increased powers are conferred on the Minister and the Chairman of the Legal Council of State, in general, on the regulation of several operational procedures. We hope that this is not precisely because of the support of the President of the Legal Council, and the most important point that concerns the citizens regarding the action of the Legal Council is the exhaustion of legal instruments, even in cases where there is reasonable or obvious injustice. For example, the case of Myrtus, which is afflicted by the state with courts, as we will testify in the Minutes, while the public should resign, even if a special approval of the House was needed. We stress, again, that in the Myrtus case, the state should resign from the courts, that the judge of Golgotha should stop and that her mother should not be forced to become a beggar for her child, like her mother, at least, says. It is disgraceful for all of us and unacceptable for the government to have the S.H.E. to decide. In conclusion, the main reasons for not voting in favour of the bill are the superpowers we have mentioned, the derogating provisions, as well as the two anti-constitutional articles that we have contained and analysed in committee: Articles 37 and 57. What is of fundamental importance to us, of course, is that the changes to the Legal Council should not be initiated in order to become more robbery in its trials with the citizens and also not to be fully subordinate to the Minister, so that it is also in the troika as part of the change of ownership status of our country. However, we were struck by the vote on the first amendment tabled yesterday in an article, despite the fact that the Minister assured us of the opposite, while, of course, we want to vote on the articles on the ODA, but not on the whole. With regard to this amendment, we will only refer to its first article on deferral tax. Another hardouveli violation, which the banks have literally turned, into a rag with the 'hive down'. The other articles will later be referred to another colleague. This is a very complex technical issue which we would not wish to tire about, not only by noting that the 'hive down' is being circumvented by its logic in any case by a charismatic Hardouvelis law with which future tax obligations have been capitalised, namely air which will be depreciated over a 20-year period. In the case of losses, however, the State would then be called upon to add capital by taking on shares, which is not the case with the ‘hive down’. As the President of Piraeus Bank said, however, here in the House, it is mainly to prevent the deferral of the tax and to issue new shares for no reason. Isn't it a shame? Mr. Hardouvelis, who is now president of the National Bank, what does he say about this? However, historically, the phrase that "ten families rule Greece", although in today's case the right thing would be that four banks and the superstition rule Greece. Finally, with this amendment, the debit difference that should be amortised to twenty equal instalments will continue to be amortised in twenty instalments, but, if the margin of netting has already been exhausted with obligations - profit for one year, it will be moved to the next. But why is the transfer at the moment? Why not lose a small part of the deferred tax on supervisory funds? We would like to ask the Minister to confirm to us whether this figure will remain in supervisory capital. Certainly, the European Central Bank and the Bank of Greece would not want to create a question of capital adequacy, at the moment, when they have placed so many capital in Greece, because of the pandemic, with the well-known catastrophic effects of rising deficits and debts. In any case, this is another facility for the banks to which the New Democracy owes substantial sums. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, too, Mr. Villardo. Before giving the floor to the Special Speaker of Mera25 Mr. Logiadis, I will give the floor to the Minister of the Interior to develop the amendment for two, three minutes, with a general number of 1070 and a special 169. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u13	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with Amendment No 1070/169 from 20-9-2021, measures to speed up projects and studies to control and regulate flooding, especially in areas affected by the recent catastrophic fires, which were of unprecedented intensity and extent, are being introduced. These measures fall within the scope of the measures taken by the Government to restore these regions. In particular, they are part of a holistic anti-military action plan to ensure that these areas do not suffer again. In the context of this holistic plan, the regions take on a key role and conclude programmatic contracts with the relevant directorates of the Ministry of Energy and the Environment, which have the relevant know-how. Armouring these areas with flood risk minimisation projects requires immediate action, necessary studies and appropriate projects to be completed as soon as possible in order to prevent severe weather phenomena in winter. This requires the completion of the competitive procedures to be carried out by the regions in an extremely short time. That is why the amendment makes use of the excellent provisions of Law 4412/2016 and the procedural deadlines are shortened to make it easier for contracting authorities to act immediately and effectively. In particular, given the urgent need, which is not disputed, it is foreseen that the regions may award related projects and studies either by recourse to the procedure referred to in paragraph (c) of Article 32 of L.4412/2016 if the estimated value of the contract is greater than the limits of Article 5 of L.4412/2016 or by recourse to the direct award procedure under Article 118 of the same law in any other case. At the same time, the regulator shall, firstly, be responsible for all acts adopted in the context of the invitation to tender, without requiring the opinion or presentation of a collective body. Second, the award procedure shall be completed within forty-five days of its entry into force, with a corresponding abbreviation in half, where necessary, of the time limits laid down in Article 102 and paragraph 4 of Article 105 of Law 4412/2016. Thirdly, the pre-contractual audit of the draft contract carried out by the Court of Auditors shall be completed within twenty days of the date of transmission of the dossier to it. Fourthly, it is confirmed that, as NASA has consulted in similar cases, its prior assent is not required in view of the assistance of events which fall within the concept of force majeure. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Minister. Please just don't go for a minute. Is there any of the rapporteurs or the parliamentary representatives who would like some clarification from the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u15	I would like the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u16	Mr. Katrinis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u17	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, if we read correctly the references you make to the amendment to Article 5 of Law 4412 - and correct me if I am wrong - with the amendment that you are introducing at the moment, you will enable the regions to make direct awards up to EUR 5.225 000. I want you to confirm that. Because we understand the urgency for forty-five days after the catastrophic fires, but I think it is something that shocks the Chamber, that the National Delegation should vote directly over 5 million euros. And I want you to clarify that, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u18	Mr President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u19	Here, you have the floor, Mr. Heta. Minister, you'll answer the whole question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u20	The good thing about you, Mr. Pecha, in the government is that we have now learned to see the cheese, too. Because taking the amendment to his hands and reading the title 'Accelerating projects and studies for the control and regulation of flood flows' says 'it is the good government that works quickly so as not to flood the cosmopolitan!', but going down a little further, Mr Petsas, and reading that all the awards are issued by the relevant regional authority without the need for any prior opinion or suggestion of another collective body finds that we are talking about the 'part of' of our lives! What for? Will you invoke the speed? But is that possible? Yannis drinks Yannis buys where they want to assign them? We're in Greece now. Again, we've learned with you to see the cheese and the lentil, because otherwise we'd have fallen a hundred times into the face of you in trouble.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u21	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u22	Mrs. Eleftheriadou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u23	Furthermore, Minister, it says here that there is no prior publication but negotiation. Shouldn't there be at least a previous publication?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u24	Mr Minister, you have the floor to give the necessary clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr President. In fact, it is up to the limit you have said, Mr Katrin, because as you know, these anti-milling projects have a very large budget. I can only tell you that, for the disasters that took place in Gerrena, at the end of May to the beginning of June, the restoration works are about EUR 10 million for the Attica Region and EUR 2 million for the Peloponnese Region, involving two municipalities which are closest to each other but in different regional units. Also, the anti-military projects related to northern Evia and the projects related to Attica are also EUR 110 million. Therefore, if we really want to make sure that in the Chamber we have given the necessary tools to the regions after the programming contracts, I repeat, which will enter into with the Ministry of Energy and the Environment to do their work in the medium term in winter, this process is necessary. The government is taking the initiative to say that yes, we are giving these tools so that people do not drown, that property is not destroyed. That is why we will come to shorten the deadlines. That's what we're doing here and we're pulling hands to get this thing done quickly. If we do not make this sure that it takes six, eight or even ten months to go ahead, winter will be over and we will not really be able to stand up to the circumstances that society requires. Comparison exists, it's the case again at the Geranea Ores in the case of Kinetteta. See how long it took to do the works that have not yet been done and have been three years to understand what we have in front of us. We have the political will to bring about such a process that respects the Union framework - because the limits you have said, Mr Katrin, are within the Union framework - but it also gives the flexibility we need. (c) Article 32(2) is the subject of unpublished negotiations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u26	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u27	Here, you have the floor in addition for a clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u28	Minister, we understand, we understand the necessity and speed of the process, but I think it would be more testable instead of the regulator deciding and taking the actions out to be a decision of at least the regional council, there would be a control body for the whole process. By the Representation coming and empowering a person to make direct assignments of up to EUR 5.225 000 I think we are opening a bad cycle, which we will find in front of us, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u29	Minister, although you've made it clear, here's the floor for you to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u30	If you look at the amendment, you will understand that we are talking about the exceptional case of this year's catastrophic fires. Specific regions, four in number, will conclude programme contracts with the Ministry of Energy and the Environment. There will be nothing but what will be described in the programming contracts. I want this to be clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u31	You were clear. The reason is now the special speaker of Mera25, George Logiadis, and I will immediately give the floor to the President of the Greek Parliamentary Group, Mr Velopoulos. We will then enter the first circle of speakers. Mr. Loyadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will start with general remarks. Firstly, how can the Legal Council of State function properly and effectively when there is no clear distinction of powers and, essentially, justice is not independent, but everything depends essentially on one, by the Prime Minister concerned? Secondly, when all public property - I stress, all public property - has been allocated to the institutions for ninety years, what are the essential possibilities of the State's Legal Council to defend public property? Also, if there is any issue, any involvement with the ADP, whose position will prevail? The Legal Council of the State falling within the Ministry of Finance or the AIA which is subject to the Troika? Article 29 of the current draft law refers to the gradual merger and operation at the headquarters of the districts of the judiciary of the State Council of State located outside the Attica Region. As a Member from Crete, from Heraklion, I would not like Crete to have only one office in Heraklion, as the draft law states. Not all of Crete can have just one office. And what's "stadian"? How many years? On what criteria? Article 68 states that in order to apply for a withdrawal of a decision without a request, the telephone is sufficient to start the time limit - I stress it - the telephone information. This is certainly wrong, because the person concerned cannot take into account the text of the decision. How will he apply for revocation if he doesn't have the text? The time limit for the application must start from the performance of the decision on transfer. The main priority of the new organisation is the digital transformation of the Law Council of the State and its electronic operation. Of course we fully agree and support. But our question here as Mera25 is who made this software, who controls it, who controls these platforms. Because anyone who controls the network which travels a product or service or information, controls the product and information and can intervene at any time according to what is happening. The Minister said to the committee, and I am just reading: "For many months a very serious job has been done by the Legal Council of State, which began about a decade ago, and I would like to thank very much the Chairman of the Legal Council of State and colleagues, the Honorary Chairman of the Legal Council of State and all those who worked on the main provisions of the draft law, but also the President and the Union as a whole for the members of the Legal Council of State for the excellent cooperation we had, the dialogue, the inclusion, as the President said, of comments made." It's a clear statement and raw. First of all, a technical remark: While all the judicial decisions of all courts, civil, criminal, administrative are published in a word format and anyone who can copy and make use of their content, on the contrary only the opinions of the Legal Council of State, for unexplained reasons, are published in PDF, which makes it difficult to copy the contents of them without due reason. All laws are in word and court rulings too. Lawyers fully understand this point. Secondly, a notorious observation: the unjustified designation of legal counsellors or judges as officials, referring to religious officials, has become contrary to conceptual content, which unfairs themselves, because it is perceived by society as something more than other workers, which is rather negative than positive impressions for the same workers, since all workers are serving to the same extent and with the same responsibility in society and in that sense all of them are exercising a profession of equal importance for society - a function, the same as judges and legal advisers. I really do not understand what this hideous, overriding semantic attack serves, which rather refers to the ages of noble and aristocratic titles of the Middle Ages, etc., rather than to today's era. I believe that the modesty in titles should be mainly due to the servants of legal science and justice as an example of courtesy and equal recognition of the members of society and not of comparative superiority through the use of the unpaid title of the minister, which is repeated emphatically and infinitely in the bill, to the extent that it is rather splendid and causes the intelligence of the reader. As MERA25, we stress that every worker in society is equally useful to it and to the community as a whole, and self-evidently he is a servant and a civil servant. It would therefore be more practicable and modest to define the term 'legal counsellor of the state, of the law and of justice' than'manager'. After all, it is the value and the offering of each worker that determines him in the eyes of the members of society and not the collectively degraded title. I also did not see any provision in the draft law on the Legal Council of the State, which clearly and clearly states that the legal counsellor is entitled and has to support a reasoned, legal and factual view, even if this view of the State conflicts with the interests of the State. Otherwise the Legal Adviser is a mere public lawyer, not a servant of legality and justice, which, among other things, undoes the custodial title of the Minister of Justice. The legal counsellor should have the right of his own reasoned legal opinion, which could not necessarily match the narrow interests of the State, but be identical to the legality. Above all, we stress that this draft law has obviously been drafted by the members of the Legal Council of State themselves, and not by Parliament's Legislative Committee. It cannot be right that the person concerned, the Legal Council of the State, promotes a draft law for himself. He cannot, for whom he becomes a law to control, legislate himself. That is why, obviously, plus others, the president of the Legal Council of the State gives himself the power to do so. And to paraphrase 'legislative Council candles, the Legal Council drinks!'. This is called a bad legacy, a disgrace to the House and a mockery to the citizen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Harris Theocharis, by letter to the President, tells us that he will be absent from September 22nd to September 27th for personal reasons abroad. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u34	The House therefore approved the requested permission. The President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr President. We analysed the bill as Greek Solution, we said our opinion on the State Legal Council. I would like to start with the serious ones, because what is happening in New York is very serious. So, the Erdogan Mitsotakis meeting, I'd say, obviously, is a very serious story to get over it. I wonder what one might think of this government. What should we believe? The Prime Minister at the IGC informed us he would not meet with Mr Erdogan. Erdogan states in the "REUTERS" that Mr Mitsotakis asked him to meet. The Government spokesman said yesterday that Mr Mitsotakis had asked for a meeting. How can anyone get away with such a government? Of course, the same happened in the past, and in SYRIZA. But Erdogan again last night and this morning he again announced that he would meet with Mr. Mitsotakis, because Mr. Mitsotakis himself requested it. So the government continues to disprove, saying 'if the dates coincide', 'the dates will not coincide'. He's been lying all the time. I really do not understand what the logic is in a government that self-determinations, self-determination and self-determination. The problem is not whether the government is humiliating and degrading its presence. The point is, the country is getting rid of it. The point is that we are humiliating ourselves internationally. Of course, since the morning I have heard rounds, such as that it is not wrong to meet with Mr Erdogan in the international community. Clearly it is the logic of light-patriots, which says the very simple thing: why should the Prime Minister not see Mr Erdogan? What do we respond as Greeks, as a Greek Solution? Only Ammochosto was taken the last time the country's Prime Minister Mitsotakis met with Mr Erdogan! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] I really wonder hours - hours where we step and where we are as a country. There is no serious foreign policy. You can't play with foreign policy. Minister, Mr Stavoura - you are well playing with the economy - but stop playing with foreign policy. Let's go to the economy. I shall make a few references and address 55% of the Greeks who have not voted. The debt, Mr. Stavoura, has pulled a terrificly ugly one. I don't know if you've understood it as a government. The debt is growing daily with the borrowings you give from here and from there without the production of wealth. I'll explain to you what I mean. In 1980 Constantine Karamanlis delivered the debt to 22.7% of GDP. Andreas Papandreou in 1989 delivered it to 60.2% of GDP. Constantine Mitsotakis delivered 10% of GDP in 1993. Costas Simitis delivered it 102.3% of GDP. Karamanlis delivered 127% of GDP in 2009. George Papandreou delivered it in 2011, 163,5% of GDP. Antonis Samaras delivered it in 2014 189.5%. Mr. Tsipras delivered it in 2019 to 184% of GDP. And the Prime Minister of the most good and reforming government in 2020 comes with debt to 213% of GDP. I'll leave the evidence in the Minutes. Where's this story going? Do you understand what you're handing over? Only debts. Do you know what public debt means? We're not talking about private now, I'm not talking about red loans. Public debt means debts and you do not leave them in your home, but you leave them in the next generations. Do we get it? You're lying to me about economic policy, Mr. Stakoura. I apologise for saying so, but for you to understand it too. Your lies will appear when the waste of EUR 42 billion with borrowers stops. You take credit and squeeze holes, but unfortunately not in the production of wealth but in the benefits. It's wrong. Even more will the argument of growth and good administration be dismantled in economics when surpluses begin to be measured. Then problems will begin after the German elections. Hence some people are talking about elections in March, because since March you will no longer stand the lies! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] You know, they're making comparisons now, Mr. Scandalidis, the ministers of the New Democracy of development. Development, he says, in relation to the rest of the countries, we are developing, we have an explosion in growth. But you can't understand that growth compared to credit and expenditure. When your expenses are specific, you don't compare unparalleled things. And the Minister explained it. The Minister, the intelligent Minister of New Democracy, the man who comes out every day on the channels I'm tired of seeing him because it's like seeing my house all day! I'm sick of him. It says, therefore, that 'the accuracy is due to growth'. It's because our economy has an explosive growth, and the accuracy, he says, that's where it's due. Where have you learned these finances, Mr. Stakoura? If your ministers don't know financially, do them at least do them, let's learn a little financially. Because they are either semi-educated or foolish. The Ministers of the New Democracy are either semi-learned or foolish. If someone loses 10% of their money and another 2% of their money, is it the same if they grow 5% of them and 3% of them? It's not the same. Is this growth compared? So we got to minus 10 with the recession we had or to minus 20, and suddenly we got 2% up and we're happy. That's not reasonable. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] The measures, in fact, Mr Stakoura, are solely due to your government's inability and your impotence. Because the worst of all is pretension and arrogance. You're lying to me about economic policy. You could've pressed the filth. You didn't. Instead, I see ministers going and meeting and smiling and smiling with some folklors, with others who have great supermarkets in Greece and enjoying it when the Greeks take his basket and fill it with 20 euros it is not filled with anything anymore. What's our proposal? Because I don't want to make you a misappropriated criticism. If you know that growth will come and it will be a shame. Or you say price increases have been made because of growth. All right, there's a proposal: the suspension of VAT on all kinds of topical need! It's a measure. Because the ministers tell you that this is a temporary phenomenon. Since it is transient, let them absorb it from VAT at least. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] So the government MPs of the New Democracy, after they think we will return back to the past and we will be fine, I will tell them something very simple, which is not populism, is the truth. Because if you weren't so provocative, I wouldn't say that. You must therefore reduce the salary to EUR 600 in order to withstand the accuracy, since it is all right. The Members of the New Democracy who vote for all the anti-grassroots measures may have a salary of EUR 600. Will they be able to live? You won't be able to. It's a fact. Listen, Minister, the government commits constant crimes. You're committing energy crime. The other issue is the increases in PPC. Crime first: Frozen the energy contracts for the extraction of natural gas deposits on the fourteen plots of the country. Crime second: Continue the country's energy dependence from Albania, Skopje, Bulgaria and Turkey, hostile countries that produce nuclear power from Bulgaria and lignite from other countries. Crime third: You insist on spending huge sums on renewable energy sources, which do not provide energy security. Crime fourth: Close the lignite units of the country. These are your crimes in energy. And wherever energy, real development. And where energy, cheap current and production costs lower and Greek citizen's pocket much better. All of this, while I was reading to GUARDIAN today, the British are opening their lignite mines. At the time the Germans open their lignite mines, the Prime Minister is going out, smiling and saying to the Germans: 'I close the lignites in Megalopolis and in western Macedonia to get the Germans to work'. That's wrong. It's a national crime. Understood! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Make our new slaves. I'm telling you to understand that, Mr. Stakoura, you and your government. And I'm sorry as a human. You all have nieces, relatives, grandchildren. With a degree, postgraduate, three foreign languages, the best staff for a country that wants to go to 3000, they have to work with 500 euros a 12-hour, and without a badge. Find your children if they work like this. You force them to become slaves and because they cannot find a decent job to survive them you have made immigrants abroad. Six hundred thousand Greeks, which New Democracy, KINAL and SYRIZA, with their criminal financial mistakes led them there, abroad, will bring them back, you want, you don't want. They're the new kids, tomorrow of the place. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] I am also further disturbed by the attitude of the opposition parties, especially SYRIZA. You agree on everything. You vote for 60% of the bills. I cannot understand what kind of opposition it is that consents to 60% of the New Democracy bills. And if you want, so you don't have an illegal marriage relationship, just collaps from now on and not after the elections, which you'll be doing anyway. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Why isn't Mr. Tsipras asking for elections? Why isn't SYRIZA asking for elections? Let me know why. He's not asking for elections. All he asks, Mr Stavura, SYRIZA, the co-government party of the New Democracy is officially the vaccine. That's the only agreement I've ever made. Ask for elections. Ask for elections! And because we also heard Mr. Tsipras in the IGC - since I said it last week about the Prime Minister for Finance - to tell you that I did not hear anything specific from Mr. Tsipras. How will the next government manage, after he says it will be the first party, the twin deficits and the twin debts? Let's say, without populism, no illusions, costing what he said, because the number joke is over. Because if you want numbers, I repeat that we have seen enough numbers in the last fifty years. Numbers I mean politically, speaking with numbers, I really mean to have a serious conversation at last, each one about his programme. Mr Tsipras' only mention of foreign and defence policy was again a 'thick' view. He stole it. What did man do? He took the Greek Club's programme - someone who whistled it to him - and said he will do a National Security Council, what we have been saying for two years since the first day, the Foreign Policy and Defence Council in our country. I mean, only with stolen ideas can some make programs, and that's what bothers me. Today, SYRIZA blames the Greek Prime Minister, Mr. Mitsotakis, for what he has done. He signed a number of commitments and implements them. Because the state has continued to be involved in the betrayal of Macedonia, in the betrayal of illegal immigrants, in the betrayal of economic crimes. They've got them all the time, the criminals always have. So he says, "SYRIZA," he's oppositioning things that he's been through. The only difference between Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Mitsotakis is their signatures in the same memorandum. This is their difference, they have no other difference. They sign the same things, the signature is different, in one Tsipras, in the other Mitsotakis. This is a political and strategic deadlock that both SYRIZA and the New Democracy have. Because their strategy is premeditated, premeditated. And I understand SYRIZA. I do not understand the New Democracy line, because their strategy is one and only one, and it is coming in the next few months. And we've been saying it for a long time, and unfortunately some people don't understand it. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Will you not understand that in the New Democracy? Here's the new Minister, Mr. Plearis. Minister, do you agree with what your MEPs have signed on the marriage and the adoption of homosexuals in the European Parliament? Do you agree with the resolution? I've got it here for the Minutes. New Democracy, SYRIZA and KINAL, have all agreed and signed what? Listen. Resolution of 14 September 2021: Recognition of the right to have children from homosexual couples is of particular interest. What everyone does in bed doesn't concern us and does well, it's his choice. But to come to New Democracy - the resignation of Constantine Karamanlis, the values of this resignation, the traditional values, morals and customs - and to ask through the European Parliament - because it will also come here - adoption by homosexual couples of children, I never expected it. I never thought of it. You are, I repeat, the shame of the party! You'll be ashamed and ashamed of what you're doing. The shame will be ashamed! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Where's that patriot's mind? Is there among the MPs? I can see it, too. But when they become ministers they speak differently. Cowards become chickens some. Let them decide, or leirates chickens will be or eagles, who really always say 'no' to what some people tell them who are opposed to what they believe. Finally, I'm going to say something to the New Democracy. The New Democracy is now moving on the Central Left. He has a philosophy, Mr. Scandalides. All pasophiles became ministers. All pasodes don't deserve New Democracy. If it goes a little more to the left, you'll see them on course for Marx. It's for granted. Let me see a new democrat on his way to Carl Marx and 17 November, anyway, and what in the world! What's that? I can't believe it. Aren't there any officials in the New Democracy? Aren't there worthy people? Finally, what leadership do we want, ladies and gentlemen? Do we want the leadership of these political leaders who have autocue and speak? Do we want political leaders who have bloggers? We want leaderships with ready-to-date answers, which means very simply that they don't know what they're answering? Do we want leadership that speaks from the heart, from the breasts? It is a shame, therefore, that political leaders speak of major issues of the country's economic foreign social policy by means of text. Leadership small for a great Greek people. It's not worth it! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] And I remember Constantine Karamanlis I, Andreas Papandreou, Kanellepoulou, great forms of our political track, who spoke from breasts. They dare not leave a line of what others write to them, the present-day political leaders. I said here from 2019-September month, if I remember correctly - that he's coming hunger. Some were smiling, some were ironing. After the UN and Bluberg yesterday vindicates the Greek solution. There's hunger in the world. The food crisis is the greatest threat to humanity, the title of the article. And I've been yelling for two years for all parties to sit together and make a draft primary sector, and I didn't say it because I just wanted, if you want, to "bad" votes, I said it because I knew what's coming. I saw it. Political means prediction. Greece, due to the unlimited potential of natural beauty, climate, etc. It would be a good thing if we were to become our heavy industry, the primary sector. Take advantage of this historical juncture and make Greece a producer of food, heavy industry with huge super-profits. You just don't hear and when the last minute arrives, you steal the Greek Solution in what it says and you start to say it too. We used to call wealth production, everybody says so now. We used to call the primary sector, they all say so now. Hey, let's get serious. Let me give you examples, ladies and gentlemen, of crimes committed by the New Democracy and SYRIZA. Crime first, beekeeping. The Germans first. We were in the first three places a few years ago, now we're ten. Listen, they put beekeepers in a programme of young farmers these people here that you see and put teachers, teachers, that is, geopolitics. Apiculture, what does it have to do with agronomics? The geopole doesn't know what central bee, honey, pollen. pollen knows why it's a plant. But why did you get them? So they can take a ride. Follow apiculture courses by beekeepers who have no practical experience from beekeepers. Crime 2. We lost yogurt, too. Germany is the first to produce Greek yoghurt. You know that? Where were the governments? And because money's a lot, you don't know the numbers. I'll tell you now and look for them. Three billion euros of milk products based on the Greek yoghurt type. Three billion. Exports of Greek yoghurt, seven million. Three billion in package ready ahead. What does the leader have to do? Start making the climate so that we can have ovine and caprine animals so that we can have yogurt. In the end, they'll take you with the yoghurts in the election, and there won't be any tons of yoghurt. It is a crime for Greece to be in the tenth place. Dairy products valuation United States, 11.2 billion euros. Numbers exist, huge market for us. We didn't do anything. The Skopje took yoghurt the Greek and did theirs in Canada. Crime third. Imports of fish from Turkey over the last year. We did nothing to stop fishing from the Turks. In the Aegean Sea yesterday, we almost had dead. Why? I'll tell you now. Thirteen thousand seven hundred eighty-one tons of fresh fish from Turkey took Greece, caught in the Aegean Sea. After these had been cleared, they were released for free circulation. And I read SYRIZA's law, just before the national elections - to this law - "it is noted that according to the new Criminal Code, the conduct of fishing by vessels flying the flag of Turkey in Greek waters is no longer a criminal offence. A law of resentment that the New Democracy applies and is not ashamed of. They allow the Aegean Sea to fish for fish because there is no law. I'm giving him your law, because the state has a lot to do. It keeps your state, these crimes are going and you and these are crimes. Because the issues are very serious and globally scary changes are taking place on the planet, I'm just going to make some "letters" of geostrategic and geopolitical, because I've been working on them for years. De Gaulle, Brezinski, was talking about an enlarged West with Russia. This message by De Gaulle, that view by De Gaulle, is Greek solution. Europe cannot exist without Russia. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] What does the West need? That's what Brezinski, the head of mind, not Velopoulos. That's what De Gaulle said. But we have Members of the New Democracy, Members of the SYRIZA who voted - 74% of MEPs, New Democracy, SYRIZA, KINAL - on Thursday 16 September, preventive sanctions against Russia. Here's what your party did. They voted shortly before the Russian elections, because tomorrow's elections in the country would not be legal. To impose sanctions on Russia. Aren't we a little embarrassed? What are the Members of the European Parliament? Who is an enemy of Greece? Russia or Turkey. In Turkey you always vote positively in Russia, always negatively. Why are you doing this? So, in a small West, in an Anglo-Saxon West, and globalisation is avenged. Listen, Anglo-Saxon, where racial and national, Australia, Great Britain and the United States are chosen and I tell you, you and your SYRIZA because you are fighting the nation. Knowing something, without a cohesive web, without a connecting link, you can't fight enemies. You need the nation, the country, the history, the semantics, the flag to fight. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Today they - Americans, British and Australians. Anglo-Saxon party, I repeat - indifferent to the interests of their allies, France. The France that's in NATO. How easily did the Americans sell the French, did you see it? Another so easy they will sell Greece and Turkey, because we are being useful idiots with the national crimes you are committing. And I repeat that Greece's policy is wrong. It's wrong because she has her economy dependent on Germany. Organically part of the German mandate, where Germany exercises full control over it in its own interest. Wrong, why does Germany draw strategies, you know where? Investments from China, nowhere else. Incorrectly, because it puts its security through the United States, Germany, while Greece has no ally - a joint defence partner. Wrong, because China is turning an opponent of the United States into a number rather than a competitor. Wrong, because Germany is the closest partner of our enemy, Turkey, our own existential threat. Today we are threatened to exist as a state. Leave the nation. If it's not your concern, it's my concern. As a state Greece is threatened by Turkey as a whole, which Germany has as its second child, to understand. And of course, you must finally stop committing national crimes. Third countries such as Israel, Egypt, and even Turkey are trying in every way to exploit the geopolitical, geostrategic value of Cyprus and you in the New Democracy, in SYRIZA, are saying that Cyprus is another country and another state. Cyprus is Greece, it's Hellenism! Now let's do an EEZ with Cyprus before the game is lost. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] It is a mistake that we repeat every day, gentlemen of the New Democracy. My friends, like SYRIZA and KINAL, who have a lust with Germany, the Germans - I will say it directly - look at their interests. The Greek politicians told us a few years ago - I listened to many ministers, there are a couple of them here, in any case - that: 'Green Britain will be destroyed if it leaves the European Union. In supermarkets there won't be any food to eat. They won't have to drink. They won't have milk. They will not have meat." That's what they said. Great Britain has left the European Union and has finally become the third new pole of a new world order. It's the third pole on the planet. Do you understand that? You didn't get it. So is the future far from this German Europe? Is the country's future far from the German boot? Answer honestly. Answer with conscience what you say. But we have a terrible government. We don't have a patriotic government. I'm saying it straight away. She's terrific. The horrific can't be patriotic. The scary one's scared. I'm not saying they're not patriots. I'm saying they're scared. So now it is an opportunity to ask the affected France strategy, a defensive agreement with one voice. "Greece - France alliance", not in words, but in actions. That's what the Greek Solution says. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Let me tell you that the game is much bigger. You don't know most people. I'll give you some numbers to understand it. The real war now between the United States and China, apart from geo-economics, is their companies. The US companies, ‘GAFAM’, ‘GOOGLE’, ‘APPLE’, ‘FACEBOOK’, ‘AMAZON’, ‘MICROSOFT’, have a total capitalisation of more than 7 trillion dollars. It's five, six companies. Their rivals are BHFs, companies from China. The BAXT acronym relates to ‘BAIDU’, ‘ALIBABA’, ‘TENSET’, ‘XIAOMI’. Total capitalisation of 1,1 trillion. And NATU has now come out with NETFLIX, 'AIR BNB', 'TESLA', 'UBER'. This is the confrontation. American companies in the showroom, management of NETFLIX, etc. They collaborated three poles worldwide that have 12 trillion dollars. Do you understand the number? This is the enemy of the people. They divide the people. This chapter is the multinational, the oligarchy is an enemy of the square folk layers. This is the world enemy. Understood. The rulers, the presidents, the Prime Ministers, are moved from there as puppets. The politicians must take the knife and the watermelon. And I'm not just talking about our planet. I say that for Greece too. The Greek Prime Minister cannot be brought in and behaved by fewers. He can't make Ministers, because a shipowner or a few of his people asked him to make a minister of this kind or a man of this kind. It's a disgrace to our political system. It's a disgrace to all of us. The government is, unfortunately, acting in the interest of the United States. There goes Mr. Dendias to sign a deal with the Americans, and here's what a crime he's done, ladies and gentlemen. It did not separate the negotiation of the bilateral defence agreement with the United States. It didn't separate it from the supply of the wells. What did we do now? We put on the free bases that we gave the Americans without getting anything and loaded us on a payroll of ships that the Americans themselves don't buy. The admiral, the American, said that the ones that Greece is going to get the freshmen don't do for the American navy and they'll never get it. That's what you did. Everybody's going to haggle underwater. We're stuck in the wells. Only the Greeks - I will say again - make mistakes in the armaments because they have linked the presence of the Greek Army to the Natali interests. You're wrong. There's no NATO anymore. You saw it with France. Our weapons, our programs, it's not about naval interests, but it's about national Greek interests alone. Understood. I say it and insist. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Nor can any party give a solution. It's a given now. You don't have a plan. Especially in foreign policy are you enjoying many of you from German or American orders. Only the Greeks will save the Greeks and Greece. And we as Greek Solution represent the Greeks. We represent Greece. That's the reality. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] The future therefore belongs to those who are preparing for this future today. And we're ready. We need four years to change the country. Closed up, so I don't have more time, I'd like to go to the coronary for a little bit. But I will go to the political dimension of the matter. Friends and friends, if the New Democracy did not exist, Greek intertwined media should have invented it. If this government did not exist, site, radio, newspapers, televisions, they would have shut down and should have invented the New Democracy as a government to be able to earn money themselves. Many journalists with a site would be hungry. He reaps money abundantly, flows money into the media, the channels, the websites, the newspapers. We're an incredible, a corrupt, intertwined state. With state advertising they've been hammering the government all day. With money stolen from the pocket of the Greeks you make political communication rather than governmental. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] They remind the media of the octopus. There's a lot of them, not all of them. About two hundred million euros, the occults took them. I'll tell them one thing: In crime, you're either a thief or a thief, you'll be punished and you'll be imprisoned. I'm telling them to know. When the Greek Solution comes to these dirt, the gentlemen will pay them. He cannot have taken 800,000 euros for an old site, Minister, to sneeze your government. We must all be ashamed in here, not just you. But we have said that you are ashamed and ashamed of what you are doing. It's embarrassing. We're talking about proposals. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Since we're talking about coronary, do antibodies tests instead of case control. Don't fool people with cases. It doesn't mean that I'm going inside the ICU to hang out. If they did, then, we would know how many people went through a coronary and we would know that forced vaccination is not necessary. Why are you doing this? You're doing this to work on your buddies, like in Larissa, with the masks. Because when you go through a coronary, you have antibodies. Maybe you don't need a vaccine. We also said: we will not force anyone to make a vaccine, nor will we threaten anyone to do so. It's over and out. Why don't you remove the impunity? Why do you only pursue the Greeks? Remove the impunity. Now I'll say for the Minister's hails. They're killing the public. They're killing the health system. With the inhibitions, people will die. You're killing nurses, doctors. Hell in Patras. Ryu University. A hundred and ten sanitaries and twenty people have left cleanliness. Command says it'll cover the void with contractors, their buddies. Their friends, the contractors, the private people are going to make money. And I don't know if anyone else is. Twelfth: In parole of seventy sanitaries. Comett: forty-four sanitaries. The hospital's urology clinic is closed. Drama: ninety-six sanitaries left. These are their hails. The pathology is shrinking. Surgery has been combined with urology and orthopaedics. Break your leg, go for urology - if you want - straight away. In surgery, the hospital has stayed with an anesthesiologist. Xanthi out of a hundred sanitary people. In Ptolemais the ICM was closed due to a lack of staff. In Kavala, a hundred and twenty - five sanitaries have left. In the EKAB, the administration imposed immunization. Nobody's talking. The suspensions relate to five hundred eighty-eight employees. Their private friends, friends, the private health that the Greek Prime Minister of Sweden has brought to the attention of the socialist. But in Sweden socialist did not set an example of the lockdown shortage. This is where we got nine months in prison. Sweden didn't have a lockdown. This is where we had. Ten thousand auxiliary health officers are in charge of the ESS. The two thousand are the qualified doctors. They have offered maximums for the past two years. So here it comes and the deadline for them to exist is over. So I'll show the Minister of the Transport Hospital. Look at it. I'll give it to you later, Minister. They are wrapped with aluminum foil - listen - the fluid for chemotherapy because they do not have packs. Because in order to protect your chemo, this liquid must not have any sun. The exposure reduces the activity of the chemotherapeutic drug. I'll testify to the Minutes for the Minister to see it. It's from the "Metaxas" Hospital the other day. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a reproach for democracy to inspire an idea that the state knows your good better than you do. That's what the junta used to say. That's what the seven years are saying. If you want to be associated with them, be likened. We are with democracy. No more democracy tiles. You don't know the good of the citizen better than the citizen. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] So here comes the worst. For us it's fascism, it's authoritarianism, it's a cause of many evils. So we are with the democrats and not the tyrannocrats. Democracy means self-sufficientness in this House, and everyone does what they want. I'm hanging up with the Shepherd who left like yesterday in 1971. "The important thing is not to change our lives by dreaming of another infamous life." And we're paraphrasing: The great thing, however, is the dreams that we make it come true, to come true. This is the great thing for the Greek Solution, this is the great thing for the next generations, this is the great thing for the Greeks and we as Greek Solution can do it and we will do it for the Greeks. For us the choice is only one: victory. We will win for Greece and the Greeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u36	Thank you very much, Mr President. I shall now give the floor to the Minister for Health, Mr Ploirou, to put an amendment to his Ministry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, once again I will repeat in support of the amendment to the National Representation that the figures are ruthless, because this is the pandemic of the invaders and it is a good thing that we have a public initiative to take our responsibilities towards the citizens who are currently enclosed in the ICMs. The last figures show that 91% of ICUs are invasive. Nine out of ten over sixty years of age incorporated in the IFS are invasive. What else do some people need here at last to show a seriousness that people need to be vaccinated? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Some who close the eye from here and there, go out of the NYPDs that nine out of ten people have heard them and have not done the vaccine. So we are talking about the pandemic of the invaders, and those in this world are responsible for suspecting that something else is happening and that vaccination is not the solution, because if it were the whole world vaccinated right now, we would be talking about an absolute management, not even pandemic. The numbers are relentless. I will say it every time I come and anyone who goes up to this Step and comes to talk about the choice rights - which are respected - or about the right to vaccination or not to be vaccinated, to end up and say 'I accept taking the risk of having 90% of the unvaccinated ICUs because I say these things'. We shall now proceed to the amendment. In this spirit that the government is trying to promote vaccination and to regulate and issues relating to the management of the pandemic, in the first article of our amendment we are dealing with the subject already announced by the Prime Minister and by the Thessaloniki Report on the Freedom Pass for the people of 15 to 17 years, which will choose to be vaccinated either with the first dose or with the single vaccine. The second article enables private doctors and their doctors to be vaccinated at home in the previous legislative framework. Within the framework of the government at the outset, it was precisely because the doctor is the factor to discuss with the citizen and it is a factor that can convince even the one who has a concern because he is his doctor, to enable him to make the vaccines at home, and we do give him compensation of 50 euros when a single dose and 30 euros is taken for each dose, if it is more than one dose. If you are in the hospital, 20 euros if you are the only one or every other dose in the other 15 euro vaccines. The same is true for private diagnostic centres and private multimedical hospitals. We very much believe that we should enable doctors to come into contact with the world. Especially as a father of two children - my daughter, in two months of age, will be vaccinated - I will say not to hear this from the citizens here, but to listen to the pediatricians. They don't need to either read internet or make conspiracy theories that some people here very expensively adopt. To go to their pediatricians, to speak to their pediatricians, because vaccination at the age of twelve to fifteen or even fifteen to seventeen years is not just an act of altruism for society, but it is an act that protects and shields our children. Then we have an amendment to deal with the clawback hospital. There have been negotiations and we now get discounts from pharmaceutical companies in order to sell to hospitals. For technical reasons, the 2020 clawback must come out without calculating those discounts to be calculated in the year 2021 because the procedures have not been completed and the clawback should be removed, i.e. the discounts paid by the companies will not be counted in the second half of 2020, but will be counted in the first half of 2021. At the same time, by means of a specific provision we make an extraordinary increase in the EEAY budget, because with documentation produced by EEAY there was a transfer from public structures to private structures in 2020 and 2021 in primary care, because there was no direct operation of primary care and there was also a fear of the citizen going to hospitals and chose to go to diagnostic centres. This excess has been measured and is 15 million per year, so we have an exceptional budget increase of 15 million for 2020 and 15 million for 2021 for diagnostic tests and, respectively, for oxygen services is EUR 1.5 million for 2020 and EUR 1.5 million for 2021. Otherwise, the following articles have to do with extensions that are completed in previous articles that exist. Madam President, this is what I had to support.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u38	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u39	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u40	President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u41	I too, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u42	Will you ask a question, Mr. Heta?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u43	For the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u44	Not now, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Varoufakis, who is the leader of a party, has asked for the floor and I have to give it to him. When Mr. Varoufakis is finished, immediately then you can take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u45	I have to go, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u46	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u47	Wait a minute, Mr. Heta. You are a parliamentary representative. You have the floor for a minute, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u48	Mr. Flouris, I have the amendment in my hands. I have to say that communication is going well. You have in your last three presences in the House and in the family and staff in order to make it a little more emotional. I would like to ask this, Mr Plori: why is the world not inoculated? Why is it that despite the ambitious efforts you are making, the world is far away? First question. Secondly, as Minister for the Transport Hospital, will you tell us about this picture it presents? You didn't answer. Third: Why do you not remove...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u49	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u50	Don't interrupt, sir. When you take the floor...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u51	Mr. Comrade, please ask your questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u52	I'm interrupted, Madam President. You're trying to cover up your inadequacies on vacation! Thirdly, why don't you remove the impunity? Tell us a little bit. To convince the world, to say 'children, to abolish the impunity'. Why? You don't answer that, though. You're taking it to the personal drama. I say that because you keep invoking the children, your own family. Why don't you remove the impunity? Also, let's give you other ideas. Let me tell you about the 50 GB you give that with 10 euros the companies give unlimited. This youth extortion - apologies for the expression - must stop, like the money pocket for doctors 30 and 50 euros and "go home, get in there, get 50, give 30". Are you going to convince this one? We'd ask you to buy the second drink, Mr. Plearis. This is not a serious policy for such a serious situation. When you show the Step from which it has come to the President of Parliament's party, you will not say 'the ones who say that'. That's what you did. So these people here say this: that the defendant must choose himself and is responsible for what he will do. Do you understand that, Mr. Pleari? That's what we're saying. The rest of yours belong to the seven years.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u53	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u54	Ladies and gentlemen, please, a little quiet. Parliamentary spokesman of the Change Movement, Mr Katrinis, has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, unfortunately you repeat the mistake that often make government officials in this Chamber. You are trying to make a micro-political controversy on an issue that should unite us all and which is the national effort for vaccinations. They've done it by ministers who aren't at the Department of Health for communication purposes. You continue to make the same mistake without feeling that this controversy you are causing will probably play at some pointpoints pass a whole different message from what the National Representation has to go through and, of course, agrees with the vast majority of the parties that are in this Chamber. The first point is that. Now you are bringing an amendment here instead of looking at the mistakes you have made and the vaccination programme with twenty thousand per day has been fully marked. You do well and extend the operation of vaccination centres. However, we read that some of the major vaccination centres will probably also be suspended because there is no need for it and that should be our concern. I see you're putting the doctors ahead of them to go to home vaccinations. I consider it incomprehensible why, for example, a medical act is paid differently if it is on a single dose and otherwise paid in two doses. This is where the practice is being rewarded. We don't actually have doctors provoke the vaccinations if that's your design. But I do not understand, Minister, that eighteen months after the beginning of this pandemic, this government, which spent an hour ago an amendment to direct awards of up to 5.200,000, has not found a mechanism for making competitive procedures for the benefit of the public interest, and you are coming and saying that you are re-expanding for the supply of self-tests for four months with the well-known tactics that characterizes you. I consider it incomprehensible and incomprehensible a year and a half later, and while the pandemic has not stopped at all, there is no mechanism of competitive procurement with a supreme horizon so that we do not go to extensions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. And because you're also a legal person, you're welcome to use the workers and they're prolonging their contracts in Article 11. And you tell them, however, that "we as much as to extend the contracts to you, you have no illusion that you will be permanent", because you come and clearly say that "no matter how long you work, no matter how long you support the country in this effort, you will not become an indefinite period of time, because I do so in Article 11 at the end, that they are not counted in twenty-four months". But, because you're a legal person, you know very well that this is lame. So people who support this struggle and effort do not say to them "I prolong the contracts, but I will then throw you into the unusable bin". Be a little more careful, and I think it is even more correct for those people who have set their backs and who are many accusations, Minister. They are OAS workers, they are workers in hospitals, they are a series of people who in these difficult circumstances support the National Health System and the effort and not your voices and your denouncing speech in this Chamber, which works exactly opposite to what I am sure you too believe and support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u56	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Mr Chakalotos, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative. I'm sorry, because I didn't see that he lifted his hand.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u57	I agree with Mr. Catarini, except for the last seven words. I'm not sure at all. I don't like my finger shaking, Madam President, and in this style, when this government had such support for the pandemic almost all of Communism. You were very lucky to have these parties that supported you. We made our position very clear, because they must all be vaccinated, because that is the dominant one. There are other things, but that's the dominance. I do not like to be shaken at my finger when we have a Minister of Health who said ten years ago that the public health system will not deal with refugees and has had ten years to withdraw it. Have you recalled it and I haven't seen it? I saw on Twitter that you were asked and I didn't see you withdraw it. It is unacceptable that we have a Minister of Health who tells doctors: "Forget the oath of Hippocrates." I give you another chance to withdraw something that no one in a serious state in Europe could be a Minister of Health and have done so. Most important, however, is: Why can't you understand that the National Sustainable Development Commission says that you had to do a lot of things before we got to more authoritarian solutions? That's what he tells you. And you do not do all of this and you do not answer why we are at the lowest places in Europe for the rate of vaccination. What went wrong? They may be mistakes you couldn't avoid, but make this review and tell us where you went wrong. Maybe he wasn't in total. We might disagree with someone. But something didn't work out, and we're in the worst places. And the last point I want to raise is that here there are two worlds. We don't think pandemic is transient, that we won't have any more pandemics. We understand - and I think other opposition parties have understood - that the National Health System wants a great deal of investment and, instead of investing in primary health and primary health can go to people's homes to see that there is a public interest, the public health product, you prefer to give private doctors. When they ask us on the channels with whom you think the government is, you will give a very clear answer with this amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u58	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u59	Madam President, I would like to speak, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u60	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u61	First of all, it seems to me that the Greek Solution, without naming it, recognised its party in what I said. That is something to worry about.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u62	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u63	You're serious. Let go of the political jokes. Say something serious. Answer me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u64	Do you want me to answer you or not, Mr. Chakaloto? You raised a point, Mr Katrin.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u65	Ladies and gentlemen, please. Minister, wait a minute. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister has listened very carefully to the questions. Please do the same. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u66	I'll answer everything. Mr. Catarin, obviously there is a difference because they are two doses of one vaccine. We wanted there to be a little better price to one who would have a choice of one vaccine and visit once. When there are more visits, it will automatically be compensated better. We are looking to find techniques, because you, too, know the difficulties that exist for someone who will have a Pfizer vaccine and who can have six dates at the same time to go to do so. It's technical, but that was the philosophy that existed. Now what you say and I will reply, because it is a matter of the national health system as a whole and of what Mr Tsakalotos has said. What's happening right now? Because I listened with interest to the Chief of Officerial Response from Thessaloniki and obviously the evidence he had was wrong, which he gave him. It was mentioned for 2 billion extra budget in the ESS, when the SYRIZA government has the lowest number in the ESS hospitals, 1,450. It referred to 1 billion from the Recovery Fund, and that was impressive that you already - you do not know it - the Government has guaranteed EUR 1.5 billion for the Recovery Fund. More than Mr. Tsipras' proposal has been made by the government. And that is all about, Mr Tsakaloto, and the ESS and primary and all the structures. And now, with Mr Stavoura and Mr Psulakakis, we are in a comprehensive agreement because they are entering programmes and entering projects. Within the pandemic we have 12 thousand more subsistence staff renewing their contracts, we have four thousand sixty-eight permanent doctors coming out and three notices come out, one of five hundred thirty-four doctors, the other of four thousand nurses and the third of nineteen other sanitary doctors. The numbers, if you look at them, are the government that has put most people into the National Health System, and subsidiary and permanent staff. Because you said insultingly to me that you want me to answer you seriously, so I am seriously telling you that these are the numbers, Mr Chakaloto. So let the Chief of Officer Response be informed when he goes up to the DMD not to say lower numbers than they exist, because he's being exposed. From there on, of course, it's an ideological difference. You're obsessed with private doctors. The pediatrician who comes to make the normal vaccine in your home would like to become in public structure. You now forsake us that we give private doctors to carry out vaccines. So any vaccine that our pediatrician does is quit. They should all go into public structure. And we have another philosophy, Mr Tsakalotos, because we in the Ministry believe that there is the National Health System, there is the primaryity, which we will upgrade, and there is private health. And the EEAS with private providers contributes. Why, Mr Chakaloto, have you not cut the contracts with private providers since you are against private health? And, on the contrary, why did Mr. Paulakis and Mr. Xanthos put thirty tests that did not have private providers and gave them? You have recognised yourself that the EEAS contributes with private providers. So, tell us, the left government, why did you keep these conventions? Why didn't you say 'all back to the public system'? Because basically you say refreshing things and you know it. And we have no idealism and we say yes, we are in favour of public-private partnerships, we are also in favour of public-private-health partnerships. What for? Because the Ministry's obligation, Mr Tsakalotos, is to provide the public with a good of health, to find that good. It is not a paternalistic concept that this good only gives it to the state. It is a perception that the state must ensure it and look for where it will give it. And because you also referred to my personal issue, Mr Chakaloto, you could have put your colleagues in a little bit of a search. Because even for this statement in the paper "Kathimerini" in 2016, when I was not a Member of Parliament, and I was a ordinary citizen, I said that I was another thing to say, but as it was heard it was wrong. I'm not telling you to accept it. But do not be inaccurate when you go up and say 'yes, he said this', but you will not say that he has never mentioned this statement. You didn't know. Now you know it. So tell your partners before you refer to a political opponent, if you cannot read, read them better.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u67	I shall now give the floor to the President of the Merra25 Parliamentary Group, Mr Giannis Varoufakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Ploris spoke of partnership and cooperation between the public and private sectors. That wouldn't be the problem. The problem is that this government only cares about one thing: to despair the public sector and deliver it to the private sector, but this is another story. Today, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to deal with e-food, because during the pandemic we had another epidemic on the labour market. The pandemic will go away. Hopefully he'll leave as soon as possible. But the epidemic that starts with the "e-FOOD" in Greece - has started with other companies abroad - will not leave. And it will not go away unless we find this 'virtual' way of limiting it, digesting it and ultimately destroying it like COVID -19. I want to take you 30 years back to a personal occupation. I lived in Australia then - it's a story, but I think it matters - I was a professor at the University of Sydney and came the trade union of truck drivers, who were white as sails. What had happened was: Last night, all truck drivers in the state where I lived were fired by the 'COCA COLA', the 'BHP', the big companies in which they worked as drivers. And what did they say? "But don't worry. Things will get better for you. We will help you...”, and they also gave them contracts ready, "... place a mortgage on your home, get a loan from a bank with which the big company has been contracted, to buy the truck from us, which you will repay from your revenues, which you will get from us that will be paid by the kilometre, i.e. the piece." These in 1991. It is clear that ruthless, inexcusable, unbearable, ruthless capitalism is always fighting. He always wants to blow off whatever restriction he has been placed on him by a democratic society when it comes to the exploitation of workers. I referred to those events in 1991 because I think that whoever observes what happened now with the dismissals or the attempt to dismiss the distributors from 'e-FOD' and to turn them into independent partners, associates and partners, is exactly the same, only then in Australia it was even harder. They were also given a pledge loan for their home. Finally, we won that in the Australian courts, but we knew that this attempt to go to the 19th century will come again and again. Ladies and gentlemen, if you wish, a little bit more theoretical in the course of this speech is this: many people say what difference there is now between the Left and the Right and that these are outdated things. Of course, it is not and you will allow me to use this debate, this matter, to make it clear from our side, from Mera25, what is the quintousity of the left-wing difference? This is how we deal with unpaid work. We treat her as a merchandise, like any merchandise or not. And I want to refer to a scientific article by two of our acquaintances, Mr Stavoura, Mr Tsakalotos, Alchen and Dengets, in 1972, when it does not ultimately matter what goes on to say 'dismissal'. When I stop buying from a grocery store - they wrote in that science article - I fire the grocery store? The same thing is to stop working with a worker. The well-known Paul Samuelson said that in the end, in theory, it does not matter who rents who: the employer pays him wages, or the employer pays the employer pays him back with a profit? This is true if work is a mere commodity, as the 'e-FOOD' wants. Since 1991, that effort has been made in Australia to transform workers into collaborators and to transfer them with the stagnation of capital, the truck, at their own risk of business, has developed digital technologies, which have changed everything and have made this attempt to dissolve any restrictive framework for workers much easier. We are now seeing it with 'e-FOOD'. We see there's a panic. The company knows exactly where each distributor is at any time with GPS. If he refuses a call, because it's a little further away or rains at that particular moment, he loses points in the system. The system per period is sent to them on purpose - it is so configured - to the parts of the city that they will not be able to go, just to reduce their ratings in the system so that they are paid less and be cheaper. It is a parametrication that conscientiously increases the possibility of an accident, so the company of course prefers not to have workers and must have them covered and have partners. ‘Stop your neck if you hit’. This is Charlie Chaplin's film "Modern Times" in the ninth, who remembers the clock that made the worker go faster. Anyone who enters a storage room of "AMAZON" - whether it is the storage room of "AMAZON" or "e-FOOD" in Athens - will see exactly the same thing: a technology that aims to make the worker operate as a machine, to automate the worker who follows the automatic application, to go faster and faster, at the cost of exhaustion, his accident, the destruction of humanity, his soul, his body. None of this is new. We also saw them in Ken Lows' film - for whoever knows it - 'Sorry, we miss you'. It's none of this new. But there's something that's new. For the fact that it is not new - whichever one of us or one of you has read a little Marx - to read to you a chip from the "Communist Manifesto": "The unstoppable development of machines, whose growth is constantly accelerating, makes workers' lives more and more precarious, as the conflicts between personalised workers and employers are increasingly becoming more and more the character of conflicts between two classes." It's like he was writing about e-food, like he was writing about amazon. This is not the new, the new, the completely dystopic, it is this: it is that these digital technologies create a new form of feudalism, a neofudadarchy. Think about it: The huge economies of scale that have an amazon, an e-food, one in London deliveroo, the uber, the huge economies of scale that these digital applications actually offer what they do? They convert a company that is a service provider, such as ‘e-FOD’ - which helps, supposedly, the restaurant and the consumer interconnect, so that the consumer can eat the restaurant food - on a platform that devours both restaurants and consumers, which gains enormous power over restaurants, against consumers, why not forget that the important asset of these big companies today - what is? - they're the evidence, the data, that Mr. Stavros, Mr. Tsakalotos, Mr. Logiades, Mr. Friends, they eat, when they eat it, what time of the day, in which place, at the office, at home. This whole gathering of information makes a company like 'e-FOD' - and it is an example of 'e-FOD', 'DELIVERO' - not important - a platform that devours the companies it is supposed to serve. Suddenly, that is, in other words, the tail begins to move the dog instead of the dog the tail. And so, we have the creation of amazon, e-food, delivero as a huge feud, which is no longer a market, not even a monopoly market. A market means that I buy, I sell, if there's competition, even better, I can choose from who I buy. Monopoly market means that you're going to a market where there's only one seller, an example of that, and he's got the monopoly. This is not the case. Here we have something different, we have a digital platform, which is a parallel system, not a parallel market, a parallel system, in which to sell you in there, to buy you have to get in from there, to be advertised, you have to get in there. Finally, when you go into amazon, or even on e-food, it's like you've been through the capitalism we know in a digital system, in a digital city, where a person or another company to which this company belongs is the owner of everything, all buildings, streets, asphalt, the park you're going out, everything, whatever is bought and sold must pass through it and the most basic thing is that what you see depends on him. Imagine a dystopian city where what your eyes see depends on a man, a big shareholder. That is why we in Mera25 call this "techno-feudorism". It hasn't spread yet, but with e-food it starts. What's the solution to this? I do not believe that the state can do too much. Of course, the Hatzidakis law is cut and sewn in the e-food context, it's like it's been written by e-food or amazon. The only solution for us at Mera25 is the self-organization of the workers. Nor will the official trade unions - GFCM and so on - ever represent them in the political parties, and I mean even ours. Self-organization! Knowledge and will are not lacking by the workers in e-food to create their own cooperative unit. But what they lack is capital. This is always the case, which makes the imbalance between capital and labour crucial. The European Union has passed the Social Economy Fund. We have voted here too, but both the Samara government and the Tsipras government have not even put 1 euro in place to enable e-food workers to build their own collaborative platform. They hardly financed the independence of the workers - who? - the foundations of the debt-government! [[Applause from the Wing of Mera25]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have spoken about the trade unions. The problem of workers today is not only the capital, the technocrats, the government. It's also a union that's disrespected because he's guarded. Mera25 is in favour of a new stray syndicate by the workers themselves, new forms of resistance to what starts with e-food, which concerns everyone and everyone, because, in the final analysis, even a rich citizen, who is not a victim, is not a part of the precariat, distributors of "e-FOD" or workers in "AMAZON" warehouses, even this citizen eventually becomes a victim of these large digital platforms, who operate on the basis of making you work without even knowing it, to produce directly, directly, capital for those who belong exclusively to very few, who don't even know who they are. Therefore, the form of resistance to this e-food virus, here, delivero, amazon and the others must be an alliance of workers and consumers. We are also responsible every time we order with e-food. We are also responsible every time we order with amazon. The new forms of cooperatives using the technologies they currently use to crush workers and build a 'Kleptopia' - because this is what Mr Bezos, say, or the owners of e-food - these new forms of cooperatives are the way in which there will be - if there is - resistance to this virus, which has already begun its devastating work, to consume the social and economic fabric of this country. That's why Mera25 is here to support this overthrow. We will not make this overthrow, we are a very small party and we are a political party. This overthrow will be made by the new movements, the new trade union movements, the new trade unions and cooperatives. We are here to put backs, backs in the refining of this new digital technology, to seize it in fact, to take it, to take it from the emerging nephews workers and put it in their service, to work technology for workers, not against workers, so that in the end, for the first time, the real participatory economy will become a reality, in other words, the prerequisite for the real combination of resistance, freedom, prosperity and solidarity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u69	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Standing Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs lays down the reports of the draft laws of the Ministry of National Defence, firstly, ‘Reinforcement of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of Defence of the Czech Republic, the Ministry of National Defence of Romania and the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Turkey (acting on behalf of the Government of the Turkish Republic) in relation to the establishment, administration and operation of the Centre of Excellence for Integrated Anti-American Defence (IAMD COE) in the Czech Republic, the Ministry of Defence of the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Cyprus, and, secondly, ‘Reinforce the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of National Defence and the Ministry of Defence of the Hellenic Republic’. And we are now entering the first circle of speakers in a natural presence and Mr Liupis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u70	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u71	Would you like to speak first, Minister, on your amendment now?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u72	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u73	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u74	Thank you very much, Madam President. I am here to refer to the provisions we have tabled in the form of an amendment and concern matters that must be dealt with immediately, without creating any turmoil or issues which - in my view - need a comprehensive debate and reflection from all parties and parties. So I refer very quickly to Article 1 of our amendment, which refers to the IOA, the International Olympic Academy - Olympic Flame. So Article 1 emphasises the IOA's international actions aimed at the international dissemination of Olympic values, the scientific documentation of the Olympic idea and the international establishment of Olympic education. To date, the Board of Directors of the IOA is nine-member, with three representatives from the Hellenic Olympic Committee. We are in line with the ILO's requirements and we are moving towards an increase in the number of members of the IAEA Board of Directors to eleven members. We regulate in the form of an amendment, not the draft law, which we have tabled in any case and which must be passed by the Ministerial Council, given that the electoral procedures of the ILO are in progress, so the IAEA statute must also be brought into line with the recommendations of the International Olympic Committee. The proposed regulation modernises the structure of the IOA and adequately regulates issues relating to its administration and staff with a view to the effective functioning and fulfilment of the objectives. We are now going to Article 2, which I announced yesterday and was embraced by the majority of members of the basketball family. We have humiliated the issue of the removal of five to ten points as a current penalty for those sporting anonymous companies who do not receive a certificate of participation in championships from the Committee on Professional Sports. We regulate this issue, so that the penalty applicable to the OEMs is different from that of the OEMs, is less exhaustive and more proportional to the way they are rated. This is because the way the OEMs rated is not the same as that of the OEMs in the respective football and basketball championships, so that they are treated horizontally, as they were up until now, nor have the same competition set the two championships. We therefore propose to amend, in order to regulate disciplinary treatment in particular of basketball companies, in the event of the Commission's certificate not being awarded or revoked. We see it so that the non-allocation or withdrawal of the certificate is punished disciplinaryly by the penalty for the removal of three to five points from the rating table of the championship of the next or current season. And I now move on to Article 3 on the OEMs that are going to participate in the A1 Basketball Championship of the National Class Men for the 2021-2022 racing season. In the event that the Committee on Professional Sport did not grant the certificate of participation, due to the late submission of the relevant application, it was exceptionally punishable by deducting a certain degree from the rating table of the relevant championship, since, at the discretion of the competent administrative body, the CDE fulfilled all the conditions laid down by the law for the issue of the certificate. In order to avoid circumvention, the provision shall apply to applications for a certificate lodged up to 31-8-2021. At this point, I would like to remind the House that these proposals are in line with two institutions of the basketball community, namely the EEC, the new administration of the EEC, and Ligka basketball, which also consents to this. Let's go to Article 4 of the provision we make, which regulates the introduction of athletes to higher education for the academic year 2021-2022. We are specifically proposing for the academic year 2021-2022, for which an athlete or athlete applies for admission to higher education, discrimination in an individual sport, other than the Olympics, the World and the Pan-European Games, can be won by 19 September 2021. The current date was the distinction between it and 31 August. However, many Greek matches were postponed in the year 2021, which you too know very well, Mrs Sakorafa, on the one hand, because of measures to tackle the COVID -19 pandemic and, on the other, because of the strict fire protection measures taken, making access to certain sports facilities difficult. We consider it appropriate and necessary to assess these difficulties and to take into account the introduction of sportsmen and pupils to higher education their discrimination in individual sports won by 19 September 2021. And we propose on 19 September, because it is the end date that the Ministry of Education accepts, in order to make it possible to develop the list of admissions of athletes to higher education. We had a discussion about it for a week, but the Ministry of Education gave us this issue, so we couldn't leave that limit and we accepted it. This provision is therefore submitted, in accordance with the suggestions and assent of the Ministry of Education. The purpose of this provision is to make it easier for athletes - pupils to enter higher education so that for the academic year 2021-2022 discrimination in individual sports that have been won up to and including 19 September 2021 and not to be lost - is a pity from God! - their predicted molecules. Let us now go to Article 5, in order to achieve the absolute - and here I am literally referring to it! - in line with the revised Antidopting Code of the World Antidopting Organization. The proposed provision adds the third subparagraph at the end of paragraph 22.7.2 of Article 22 of Law 4791/21. It's just a parentheses, with an explanation that came to us from WADA. We also incorporate this in order to be fully harmonised and consistent with the WADA recommendations. Article 6 regulates the recruitment to the Olympic Sports Centre for a second deputy operational director. This is because the Deputy Operational Director will be solely responsible for the development and implementation of infrastructure projects that we have already planned in OAS at the Olympic Stadium "SPROS LOUIS". These are projects financed by the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism, established by Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 February 2021 or by the Development Framework Partnership Agreement or by other relevant or similar financing mechanisms. It is a result that we have succeeded and incorporated in the Green Development Programme of the Relief and Resilience Fund "Greece 2000" the overall modernisation and regeneration plan of the OAS of EUR 43.5 million. The overall plan for modernization and regeneration of the OAS includes energy upgrading, restoration and maintenance projects as well as the creation of green spaces, bicycle runways, walkers structures, as well as commercial spaces for the service of visitors. The relevant master plan has been presented. And, of course, that's not all. It is also a series of other programmes that we are in line with, and we want to speed up the process, with an exclusive responsibility for these issues, such as, for example, the programming contract with the Attica region, with the aim of absorbing some 5.5 million to rebuild all the stabial facilities, which is a consistent request from the Stabian community, as well as other parts of the leading sports centre in our country, the OASA. There are therefore increased needs and, in order to respond to them, we are aiming at the rapid completion of projects and the proper absorption of the funds of the 'TRANSIN DEVELOPMENT' programme. Ladies and gentlemen, all six above provisions aim to support and strengthen sport and, of course, our athletes. We appall the needs of sport, sport and the sport community. We are giving immediate solutions and are acting as guarantors of their uninterrupted operation and strengthening. I would ask colleagues from all political groups to agree on this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, too, Minister. Is there a colleague who wants to ask a question?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u76	I, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u77	I too, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u78	So Mr Katrinis has the floor from the Change Movement as a Parliamentary Representative and then his colleague from the Communist Party of Greece. Here you go, Mr. Catarini, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u79	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, I would first like to welcome the reasonable and self-evident right of the Mayor of Ancient Olympia to be an ex officio member of the International Olympic Academy, which was not there. At the same time, however, I would like to make two comments. Firstly, why is it not established by the amendment as the seat of the International Olympic Academy, Ancient Olympia, which also has the facilities - is clearly mentioned in the amendment - and is the seat of the Hellenic Olympic Committee? Secondly, why is there no institutionalised representation of the Association of Greek Olympians at the International Olympic Academy and left at the discretion of the President, if I read correctly, to choose a personality of olympism, sport, letters, art, education and much more? Thirdly, I think it is wrong to allow the provision of paragraph 21, with which you are disapproving the International Olympic Academy, allowing it to transfer its employees with any relationship between work and the general government. While the previous provisions allowed the general government to transfer personnel to the International Olympic Academy, you are now doing the exact opposite and you are practically weakening it. How much more, Minister, when we talk about a legal person of private law, whose board of directors has full freedom to appoint, decide criteria and relationships for workers. So all this enables them to go into the narrow public with this provision. I think you should call it in. Thirdly - I shall end, Madam President, and thank you - in relation to Article 4 for the admission of athletes, I do not understand why the 19 September is due to expire two days ago. So, if there's a hell of a fight after ten days and someone has a distinction, why wouldn't he be registered with the universities, which are starting their operation at the beginning of October anyway? I mean, I don't understand that suffocating. There should be a discrepancy between at least until the deadline for completing the internal transcripts, which will also have the full table of students in each section and for no athlete to be wronged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u80	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Mrs Konnakka has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u81	Minister, and in this amendment - we have repeatedly pointed this out - there is still the problem, because we are given the opportunity to put one vote in all the articles. There are different provisions, separate issues, which make them difficult for us to enter. There are issues, for example, that we could talk about the issues of the International Olympic Academy. On the other hand, it is clear to us that we have a position on the AEAs and the AEAs and on issues relating to their operation and control. These cannot be distinguished from other anonymous companies. We agree with the objections to the deadline for admission of athletes to higher education. We really think that it could be extended until the completion of the procedures for registration and transcription at universities. However, what we would really like you to answer us, because the reason you gave us was that this need for a second deputy director of the OAS has suddenly slipped out. We won't ask who you're photographing, because it's probably rhetoric and we won't get a reply. But where does this need really arise to bring it along with such procedures in this amendment? We cannot support this regulation, of course. However, because there is a particular reference to athletes, we will be placed in the amendment. But at the moment we would like you to answer these questions as a whole in order to better appreciate the outcome of our vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, my colleague. Here, Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u83	I shall begin, Madam President, from the last, with regard to the OAS and the need for a second Deputy Director-General. The fact is that the Olympic Stadium after many years is evolving and renovated. It works on a daily basis at an extremely fast pace and those who have the luck and joy of visiting it and comparing it to previous years, I think they understand the difference, which is noticeable. However, its inclusion in the Recovery Fund, especially in this programme, requires a very tight timetable and an exclusive commitment, I would say, to the development of these projects, which are extremely important. We are aiming for the next two years to complete this whole big project which we presented in the presence of the Prime Minister himself about two months ago. The aim is therefore the projects that result from this master plan and from the money secured by the Recovery Fund, plus some projects, such as, for example, what I mentioned just before, namely funding from the Attica Region in static projects or projects that are under way and are completed for the bathing tanks and a number of other projects that we want to run in this area. These are completely in line with the master plan that we presented and they need an exclusive responsible person to do this and only the job. The other executives, in cooperation with the minimums compared to the previous years, are true to give their souls and work endless hours, to improve the daily functioning of the OAS and, on the other hand, to increase the organization that they receive and organise in collaboration with the clubs and the sports family hosted in the Olympic installation. So that's why no one else is. We want to achieve time-consuming targets and promote this money as soon as possible so that we can be within the timetable that we have presented. On the subject of the date you mentioned, I would say that I too would like more time. I'm saying it very clearly. This was also our suggestion to the head of the Ministry of Education. However, they also set another dimension, which I hear and respect it, that is to say we take as the end date on 19 September, because the Ministry of Education knows that there is a very demanding process for the formation of lists of admissions of athletes to higher education. So, if we were to extend for even a week this year, they thought they wouldn't be able to complete these lists, so an entire design would be in the air. I repeat that our personal suggestion was to be more time, i.e. by the end of September or even another week. However, we respected the Ministry of Education and the final report, which is why we are coming to September 19th. Regarding Ancient Olympia and, more generally, some of the comments you made on the IOA Charter, I would remind you that we accepted a recommendation proposed by the IOE and the Greek Olympic Committee. We have made a few comments, particularly on legal issues and not on the basis of fact, because this has been fully respected and of course welcomed by all the plenary sessions of the Hellenic Olympic Committee and by the suggestion made by the ILO, which is also financed by this work. But I am keeping the remarks and, if you wish, you cannot personally find me against them. We will anyway have a second debate on the individual issues in the bill that is coming. So we have the possibility of making small improvements, such as these extraordinary ones you said about the role of Ancient Olympia and the municipality or the regular representation by the Association of Olympians or Paralympics, which are issues that we are considering. After all, I am in favour of that logic and that philosophy. I'm not negative. However, I respect this procedure in the way I described you. I understand the pressure of time on their part, because this is also linked to the electoral process under way in the ILO. So we're keeping this conversation. I repeat I'm not negative. For the role of Ancient Olympia there is already a proposal in our office in collaboration with the Region of Western Greece, which is also considered with great interest on our part, and I believe that in the next period we will have good news to announce. Any other comments have been heard about the Charter of the ILO, I think it is in a spirit of orderly operation and we have welcomed it, because we really want it to work flexibly, quickly and serve the purpose for which it was set up, financed and operated as it has been in operation in recent years. But we also want it to be linked to the local society on the one hand, but on the other hand to the sports family in our country much more strongly. And that is an issue on which any proposals from you are very open to us, because it is an ornament. It is really wealth for our country's sports family, just as long as there is access to and contact and the possibility of working together with the sports federations of Greece as well as with the sports family as a whole. So we would be happy to hear any other proposals that are in place in the next few days that the bill will come on any improvements it contains. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, too, Minister. We are entering the first circle of speakers with a natural presence and I call on Mr Stamenitis to take the floor. I'm sorry, because I had a different name, and that's why I called Mr. Lippi. Here, you have the floor for seven minutes and we will continue with Mr Alexiadis from SYRIZA shortly afterwards.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u85	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I enter the debate on the bill, I would like to make two comments on what has been heard so far. Indeed, there are two worlds, two philosophies over and above the pandemic. There is this philosophy that we experienced before 2019, which broke the middle-class, put excessive taxes and brought an insurance policy that was tax, reducing new pensions. And there is our view, philosophy: Step up - step back to the middle class what you have taken them, 9% tax up to 10 thousand euros, 22% tax rate for legal persons, 5% dividends and apparently abolishing the exceptional levy, etc. We have brought an insurance company that streamlined contributions and for the first time increased pensions. Retired people, lawyers, engineers, farmers, free tradesmen experience this. They see the difference between the Katrugalu Law and the Brutsi Law. It's a reality. And obviously we believe that cooperation between the private sector and the public is the best thing to do for health and for other sectors. Besides, stateism has been abandoned by society and the world. And one last. It's gonna be nice when we're in place for vaccinations and vaccines, we're gonna take a walk to hospitals, see what's going on. The Minister of Health said it too. Over 90% of nurses and those in intensive and obviously those who unfortunately end up are people who have not taken a vaccine. If they had received a vaccine, the country would obviously have been much better as well as their health. For a few votes it is not good to say these things, and in the plenary. I now enter the debate on the draft law on the Statute of the Legal Council of the State. The Ministry of Finance lays the foundations and creates the framework for the reconstruction of the State's Legal Council. The first article clearly mentions the purpose of the present, which is its fastest and best function, so that it provides high-level specialised legal services to the public and other bodies it represents. The Ministry of Finance, in full harmonisation and co-operation with the officials of the Legal Council, proceeds to the legislature which actually comes to change the way it is organized and operated. The proposed provisions make it clear that the objectives set out in this draft law, namely: first, modernisation and redesign of the organisation; secondly, simplification and speeding up procedures; thirdly, the more efficient and flexible functioning of the services; fourthly, the contribution to the faster administration of justice and the implementation of its decisions and, finally, greater transparency in the functioning of the State Law Council. I believe that we all agree that twenty years after the adoption of the implementing Constitution n.3086/2002 'Association of the Legal Council of the State', it is necessary to update and change it, as well as the Presidential Decree 283/2003. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been apparent mainly from the debate that took place during the meetings of the Committee on Economic Affairs during the preparation phase that almost all the political forces of the Greek Parliament are in favour of this reform initiative. Much more than we agree with the specific regulations and the officials of the State Law Council themselves, which is evidenced by the fact that until we reach the final version of the bill submitted to Parliament, there was cooperation between all the stakeholders after long consultation, which had its starting point for almost ten years back. This fact, therefore, as the Minister for Finance himself pointed out and analysed in the discussions of the committees, Mr Stagioras, is also the answer to the unfortunate criticisms made by a small part of the Opposition about the whole draft law and the changes that it seeks and brings about. After all, we have seen it in the hearing of the bodies through their positions. Although the rapporteur of the New Democracy, my colleague, Mr Spankis, has described in detail and clearly the content of the Ministry of Finance's legislative initiative, I, too, should like to refer quickly to the priorities set by the new organisation, which is the transition of the State's Legal Council to the digital era through digital transformation and its electronic operation. After all, the Legal Council of the State could not participate in the overall digital leap that has been taking place in the public sector over the last two years, but also in this court. The creation of eight thematic formations dealing with similar assumptions emphasises the specialization and economy of staff and media. In this way, the restructuring and modernisation of the operation and structure of the State’s Legal Council will be effectively achieved. Another priority is the fight against bureaucratic practices and the simplification of procedures, which will serve the purpose I mentioned above, namely to contribute to the rapid administration of justice and to the enforcement of court decisions. An important element introduced by the bill is strengthening the role of the Law Council of the State in order to achieve an ex-judicial compromise settlement between the public and other bodies with private individuals. In short, an competence provided by the Constitution itself is strengthened. Finally, I will refer to the update of those provisions governing the general Staff Regulations of Officials of the Legal Council of the State in respect of the conduct of the import invitation to tender, which is held from now on on a regular basis every two years and with new criteria and sorting, but also in terms of inspection, promotion and disciplinary law of the officials of the Legal Council of State. It is for this reason that we have listened to the greatest criticism on the part of the Officerial Representation, which once again calls for the recruitment of the participants of the previous competition without answering the questions that the Minister has rightly raised and I am referring to them: firstly, why did they not anticipate more posts in order to meet the needs? Until when will a list of complications apply? Where do we put the limit in how many years? And secondly, what are we going to tell the young children who want to have the right to participate in a new competition? Good criticism, useful and necessary, but it is good to answer the real questions and, above all, to be honest and clean to our compatriots. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress that we are today called upon to vote for a very important reform which also forms part of the New Democracy Government's logic. I am referring to the coordinated, studied and planned political choice to reconstitute the state, structures, agencies, so that at all levels we have upgraded, simplified and operational procedures. We all recognise the role of the Legal Council of the State, its crucial role, and therefore we must all agree that those who serve in it must also have the tools that will contribute so that the institution can respond to modern challenges and be consistent with its time. That makes this draft law and I invite you all to vote in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u86	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Mr Alexiadis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Madam President. It is perhaps a little unreal political to discuss two days after Alexis Tsipras' great political event in Thessaloniki on economic issues, but also in general the political context, a bill, without any mention of what has been said either with the speech of Prime Minister or with the speech of the Chief of Police. And since I often hear New Democracy Members have the notes from 2018-2019 and keep saying the same arguments, please, Mr Minister, at the initiative of the Government, do what you said in the Committee on Economic Affairs, organise a dialogue either in the Committee on Economic Affairs or in the plenary or where you want to put one of the bodies where your own forces, the Chamber of Economic Affairs or someone else are majority to do a conference, discuss the issues of taxation, discuss the burdens, discuss the barbaric memoranda in the field of taxation, discuss who has charged and how this place has been affected. And finally to discuss this famous middle class, for which, of course, the Prime Minister has taken steps! He brought the famous measure, when someone donates up to 800,000 euros, not paying tax at all! It is an important gift, the middle class celebrates this matter! The notaries have blocked, everyone runs to settle these issues, because of course it strengthens the middle-class, we understand that you mean that the middle-class has cuts in assets, real estate or mobile property over 150,000, which will be tax free, and it runs to make transfers and so on! That's very important. Now, to understand, a question that was asked by a friend of accountant and told me to put it here. The accountants, you know, are now the sector in which if they become a special golop in one of the companies you have an affair with, you will have the greatest popularity, Mr Stakoura. Everyone loves the Government of New Democracy and especially the political leadership of the Ministry of Finance. It is not a personal observation. I just want to remind you that the accountants - rather a portion of the accountants - together with some other branches were at the edge of the spear against SYRIZA. But the question raised by my friend accountant, who said that in the elections he voted for a new democracy because he thought SYRIZA was wrong with him, is this. So he said to me: a private worker who gets a large price of a thousand euros a month - a large wage with market data - works a man three - four years, does not have a reserve from his tax declarations and goes to buy a car of 25,000 euros. It will pay for part of this market a tax, as it will be taxed on a presumption, this market is not covered by its tax declarations. He doesn't have a rich father or a rich grandfather to give him a donation. While the offspring of a rich family who wants to get the expensive heap of 400,000 euros will get it on a donation that his parent will give to him without paying for a tax! And that's the help in the middle class! If I make a mistake about the evidence, please let us know exactly what the aid is in the middle class is.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u88	It's all wrong!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u89	Is everything wrong? So let's hear exactly the evidence. We're coming to the bill. I'm gonna start a little weird. I'll start by reading what New Democracy said in 2002. In 2002, from what I remember, you were in New Democracy, you weren't in another political area. You've been following the evidence. Of course you have the right to review, it is not bad, but explain to us whether the New Democracy was wrong at the time or now. Leuteris Papageoropoulos: "We in the New Democracy believe that the Legal Council of the State is a useful quasi-judicial institution and under conditions of modernization of its operation even more useful and more necessary in order to support the rights of the public and the Greek people by extension." I fully endorse - and I would like to present my experience with the Ministry of Finance either as a trade union worker or as a deputy minister, my great appreciation and contribution from the Legal Council of State in very difficult cases, in very critical situations, not in total, because there were cases where we had events that do not honor public administration, but we have in mind - I would like to stress - the importance of this institution and the need to strengthen it. So I continue to read from the rapporteur in New Democracy, because what he said I fully sign it. Be careful, 'cause now I'm gonna ask you if you sign it. "All levels and tidalities of public money, which are in conflict with each other, find a privileged development area where there is insufficient legal support from the public, which at regional level is almost unarmed." So the man points out what you are doing here. The fact that there is a need to regionally strengthen the Legal Council of State. What are you doing? You are weakening the Legal Council regionally. So you've signed this or changed something since then? "As also with regard to this issue of the region, there is a need for an effective network throughout the territory to defend the rights of the public, to respect the legitimacy of regional satraps, which are constantly growing and to limit the complexity and corruption that has drowned everything and spread its tentacles everywhere." I would therefore like to hear your opinion on this issue, as well as on what the then rapporteur of the New Democracy is saying on another important issue of the draft law, on the prerogatives of the President, where he says: 'The bill that we are discussing is inspired by totalitarian perception and authoritarianism. It reminds me - and it's not an exaggeration - an order of the Bavarian regents. It establishs a man's principle and much more'. And because I do not want to create a problem, saying the names of government ministers, then being a member of the New Democracy, a father of a current minister - there was another one who spoke, but not to cause problems in the face of political developments - it flies and says the word 'gaulaire'. I would like to say, therefore, that what you were saying at the time as a New Democracy is unfortunately also in this bill. In the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, our rapporteur and I, in the report, analysed this in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. We believe in strengthening the Legal Council of the State, not in the logic of the President's superpowers, in what you say about minority, in the question of violating European law for transparency in administration, in the wording of minority, in the right to personality, in the 'bridge' for privatizations that you are opening with the closure of the offices of the Legal Council of State. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm still going to need a little more time, Madam President. In conclusion, I would like to say on the subject of the amendments, because there is no time to say anything else. I will say a word about the previous Member of the New Democracy. I really don't see many Members of the New Democracy Parliament today in the Chamber. I don't know if that means anything, or if it's just their obligation somewhere else. However, we have been much more here since the beginning of the process. Because it denounces us on the issue of undetermined successors - I do not want to table it in the Minutes - there is a question from a Parliamentary of the New Democracy on this issue. Is he a systolic finger too? Oh, no. I would like to stress a positive element, Minister, and a negative one. One positive element of the Ministry of Finance is that it has brought this bill into a process of dialogue, a process of dialogue which has been closed in the Committee on Economic Affairs. In other words, what was heard in the Committee on Economic Affairs at four meetings, whether or not we talked about it, was thrown into the trash. We didn't see anything exploited. We're saying negative now. That's not possible, Minister. You have a "final" state. You are the "government of the excellence", you are the "better government of the thirty-five years", you have so many capable executives. The Committee on Economic Affairs ended last afternoon and from 9 o'clock last night until 10.30 p.m. you tabled amendments to twenty-five articles on everything and within them on the International Olympic Academy, on strange assignments, on a number of issues. Explain to us, is this your right legislation and this is the ultimate state and your great interest in the functioning of Parliament? Also answer, Minister, and one final question, because I see it next to you and Mr Vorides present with whom we have ideological chaos and differences, but his legal competence I understand it and admit it. I'm an economist. Do you consider it reasonable in a bill for the Legal Council of the State to bring twenty-one comment on the articles, twenty-one comment in twenty-one articles and not listen to any of your rapporteurs...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u90	Not even from you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u91	Or from anyone else from the government? Thank you very much for your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u92	The Minister for the Interior, Mr Voridis, has the floor. You want to do your place now? How long will it take, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u93	I think I will be very brief, Madam President. In your judgment, as you think. I want to develop two issues. One point relates to Article 11 of the amendment, with a general number of 1073 and a special number of 172. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMBROYLIS]] This concerns the extension of fixed-term contracts, contractors employed in grades A and B and recruited by Article 74 of Law 4745/2020 for the purposes of addressing the pandemic. These have already been extended and some of them expire until 30-9-2021. We give a three-month extension to their duration until 31-12-2021. I would like to make it clear, however, that this is the last extension, and I say this in all respects. There will be no further renewal of these contracts. The extension will be granted until 31 December and this will be the last extension of these contracts. I would also like to refer to an amendment, namely the general number 1069 and a specialist 168, signed by several SYRIZA Members, which proposes a way of dealing with a matter that was raised last year. I'll tell you what the matter is. It concerns school cleaners, and the issue is this. As you know - or perhaps you do not know, I therefore inform you - before regulations made by our government by school cleaning machines were hired every year under project contracts. There was a position of the present government - and it was regulated by the predecessors at my Ministry of Home Affairs Mr Theodorikos and Mr Livanios - where we all agreed - I hope that the works contracts were an advantageous regime for these workers and workers. Why was it a bad regime? Because obviously there was no work. There was a specific service provided under contracts of employment in fact. However, the construction of works contracts could not actually have the legislation laid down by labour and insurance. This concerned the scheme of their licences, the scheme of insurance cover, a number of matters, where appropriate the scheme of their allowances in the event of termination of the contract of employment and of termination. It was therefore a series of regulations and these workers and workers were left uncovered. It came last year with our arrangement, in 2020, and it regulated this issue and we said no more project contracts, but fixed-term work contracts, equal to the length of the school year. So these workers were transferred from an exploitation scheme to a status of working normality. That wasn't inexpensive. From 55 million provided by SYRIZA for school cleaning costs, this cost went up to 87 million and the state budget took over. Is that right? That's right. But the proposed amendment from the SYRIZA side is trying to deal with an issue that arose last year, and that is that in a total of fifteen thousand cleaners, this year and last year - a little more, this year, a little less - there are twenty-five or twenty-seven cleaners, who have actually been working in schools, which are foreign, and because of constitutional predictions, which do not allow foreigners to be recruited in the public, cannot now be recruited. That is the issue that has arisen. Where does this matter go? In the Municipality of Athens. So I said the number, I said the problem. Last year the government, in fact, because it was a new provision introduced at the time and the change in legal status, passed an amendment - the government proposed it and accepted an amendment - where this amendment for a year was maintained, especially for these workers under the contract of employment so that they could continue to work. It has been made clear that this is a transitional provision, an adjustment device. Why? In fact, the provision breaks down this rule that we have set and the rule is that, from now on, there will be no work contracts for these workers for all the reasons I have said. The proposal made by the SYRIZA Members today is to repeat last year's provision. The question is why this year? What about time? And forever? So what's the point here of temporaryity? It doesn't make any sense. The order had a time frame already last year. So this question had to be settled or settled. Secondly, it is not possible to constantly break down legislation and in fact by maintaining and proposing a legal regime, which we all know is bad, and we agree that it is bad. So, in understanding the problem on one hand, but on the other hand by saying that there can be no break-up of legislation on this issue, my answer - and that is what I propose, Minister, to do - is to reject this amendment. It is not my job to give legal advice and to give citizens legal advice and even to citizens represented by lawyers, who easily make statements, rather political, but it seems that they do not encourage their orders to do what they have to do to safeguard their rights. I am going to make an exception today because, in my view, the solution exists. The Municipality of Athens has taken a place and says it has potential and needs to make use of the services of the particulars. That's what the Municipality of Athenians says, especially expenditure, has this possibility. The legal framework exists and we do not even have to do this and there is no need for any amendment. Why? Because in the context of the public service, public procurement, we are applying to municipal buildings and cleaning services for the municipal buildings of Law 4440/2016, a law with which SYRIZA colleagues are sure to be familiar. In particular, Article 20 of Law 4440/2016 provides for the possibility of directly entrusting the service to a COMPA. Therefore, instead of all of this, which breaks down our legal system, which breaks down the integrity of its operation and which essentially repeats provisions that we have condemned as bad provisions for workers, there is a very simple and easy solution which preserves both jobs and the integrity of the legal system. I would say, therefore, more that the legal representatives of these people should be directed at solutions that are creative, productive and which exist within our legal system and give solutions to the workers, rather than proposing amendments that produce unacceptable regimes, to which our Government has come and put an end. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u95	Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u96	The Minister has the floor to make a two-minute speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u97	Thank you very much, Mr President, I have not made any other speech today. I would like to reply to my dear colleague, Mr Alexiades, because he has unfortunately tried to create impressions, erroneously in all three parts of his speech. He failed, and I'm explaining. He set an example of a young child rewarded with a thousand euros and suddenly leaped to a family with lowers. You forgot something very basic. This new kid, which may want to get a car as you said, has parents who may want to give him 500 euros, 1000 euros, 2000 euros to get the car. That was taxed up to now, with 10%. From 1 October it is not taxed. So we facilitate low incomes, medium incomes and movable property, which you have deliberately forgotten. Secondly, you have again made a 20-year-old leap. You told us here about the exceptional colleagues of the New Democracy who have denouncing this Chamber, what they said twenty years ago about the Legal Council of the State. I too endorse this, with a basic difference. That these twenty years - of course you as a party are stuck in the past - there have been many changes both in Greece and abroad and the main core of the bill is digital reform. Digital reform what does it mean? That some work can be done in a much better, much more effective way than what was done twenty years ago. So it is essential to make it easier for society, to make it easier for the citizen and to save the state money and resources. You forgot that. Twenty years ago with today, Greece and the world are very different. Thirdly, you said with a veil that the Scientific Office of the Parliament made twenty observations which we did not comment on. First of all, did your rapporteur not even comment on it, did it not surprise you? But since I do not want any impression, I will read the remarks to you to see how substantial they are if you read them. Because to say from the Step of the House, please, he goes on to say that they are essential. Observation Article 4, Mr. Voridis. It would be advisable to delete the word 'this'. Article 27. Perhaps for reasons of legality the proposal could be recast. Article 27 and 31. It would be appropriate for the sake of clarity to add the word 'this'. Article 32. The phrase ‘which is carried out by the PWN’, would be appropriate to replace it by ‘ whose legal support is guaranteed by the PWN’. Are these the essential changes you're saying? Article 63. It is noted that the relevant provisions do not regulate a case for postgraduate studies at a university in the country. Article 64. It might be appropriate, in the interests of clarity, to say 'the cadet must not be permanent', to say 'the cadet of judicial attorneys must not be permanent'. The essential differences! Let's go below Article 70. Mr Vorides, it might be appropriate, in the interests of clarity, to delete the words 'for all consistency'. Article 81 would be appropriate, in the interests of clarity, after the word 'Director', to add the word 'their'. That's why you're telling us we didn't belong. Article 84. It might be appropriate, in the interests of clarity, that the words ‘over’ be replaced by ‘the words’. Article 90. For the sake of clarity, it may be appropriate to in the words ‘if the information’ after ‘if’ add the word ‘by’, and the words ‘possibly’ shall be replaced by ‘possibly’. Is that what you're questioning? Article 93. It may be appropriate that the word 'criteria' should be replaced by 'dependent'. Article 94. It might be appropriate, in the interests of clarity, to replace the word ‘received’ by the word ‘received’. Article 98. It would be appropriate, if necessary, for the sake of clarity, that the word'refers' should be replaced by 'includes'. Article 117. It would be appropriate, if necessary, to 'exercise' the words 'constitute' to be replaced by 'owning'. It is now clear why you did not talk about these changes either.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u98	Good. Thank you, Mr. Minister. We shall now give the floor to the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, Mr Tsakaloto.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr President. One of Oscar Wilde's well-known words, speaking of English-speaking Europe - he was Irish - is that we look so much like the Americans, except for the language. He was a derogator for American English. Nevertheless, you will allow me to start with an American. New Republic doesn't do sorry. In a polite translation, the New Democracy does not have the "I'm sorry". We heard him say that he was already apologising for what he said about immigrants and the health system. Only "KATHMERINI" in what she says about the shooting does not say why doctors should not provide health services to refugees. We wanted an apology. We didn't get it. We didn't even apologize to Mr. Bogdano for being honest. It was very serious what Mr Bogdanos did. I do not think that in the CDU that have an election right now could stand a Member who posted children's names four and five years old. He couldn't stand! In fact, the Prime Minister had to apologise and take more radical measures. Unless you do not think so, Mr Stakoura, it is a dilemma to the extreme right that has happened. But let's go now to ours. You said before the elections about the twenty-seven taxes that SYRIZA put in. For the plastics tax that you later supported and good because it was a European directive, it is part of tackling climate change, of luxury for boats and swimming pools. Was that an unfair tax? For the rate for anyone with rents, a total income of over 35,000 euros should be increased. Really? Even Mr. Skylakakis says, Mr. Stakora, that we must be central to the recession. He disagrees when we're not in recession. The key to the recession is that we do not support radars, others need to strengthen. We are going to the nearest for the famous debate we have on parental benefits and the tax which goes from EUR 150,000 to EUR 800,000. First of all, there's an apology that also needed honesty. The Government Representative says that the vast majority of the Greek people have real estate of over 150,000 euros. I go out, then Alexis goes out and say that with the data we have and the figures presented in 2019 "Kathimerini", the percentage of people who have real estate over 150,000 euros is 13%. And I'm saying this because Mr. Economou was kind enough to tell me that I don't understand what the middle class is. Let's agree that 13%, the upper part above, can't be the middle class. Then my Greeks are worse, Mr. Voridis, than I thought, and I don't understand what it means to 13% or I don't understand what it's middle class. But over 13% probably can't be middle class. But should we agree that you are due to answer? Is the evidence wrong? Do you have any other evidence than what we have and are published? How can a dialogue be promoted when we make this criticism of you, that the Government representative was wrong? Mr. Tsipras told the press conference that there would not be a matter for 250,000 or 200,000. So you insist on the 800,000 and insist that you do not answer us. Really, you've read Picketty. Do you participate in this global debate on the inequality of wealth, which is not only an economic, social issue, that we do not have enough money everywhere to fund the social state, but is it also anti-developmental? It's a very long conversation. And you don't seem to be any part of this at all. And I ask you directly: is there a problem of wealth in the global economy, in the European economy, in the Greek economy? Is that a problem? Or is Picketty and everyone else who's talking about it out of reality? Or do you believe in the trickle-down, that they will become the richest, and at some point the poorest will see it? What's your opinion? Of course, that's not all. There's also inequality in income. When a person who gets a total of 1,200 euros a month from your total package and wins 16 euros, while taking 5,000 euros wins 275 euros, will this tend to reduce inequality in income or increase them? What's your opinion? I want to know. That's a serious question. We have no doubt that there will be growth in both 2022 and 2023. There was growth before 2009. We are interested in sustainability and justice. In the years of SYRIZA we have reduced inequalities - official data - we have reduced poverty, we have reduced child poverty. You also had a contribution in the last half of 2019. And you were very kind. You said that we and Mr Tsakalotos contributed to these reductions, to the inequality of poverty. The question is very clear: From your overall package, the two years, what do you anticipate in 2022, in 2023, in 2024? Answer us as long as you can. You have to the government Mr. Tsakloglu, who is an excellent economist of the inequalities of poverty. This is his basic contribution to science. We want you to tell us what you predict. Because we predict that when you come and do not seriously increase the minimum wage, when you reduce collective agreements, when you make this flexibility on the labour market, the main objective is wage squeeze. So you're predicting that I'm wrong, that these measures were taken to get more of the labour share in national income? Is that why you took these measures? So tell us, as we have sometimes submitted to the Commission a social provision, to state here what you expect of inequality.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u100	Can you tell me again the amounts you mentioned?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u101	I said that someone who has 1,200 euros earns 16 euros and someone who has 3,000 euros earns 275 euros.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u102	You said some percentages.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u103	Now, don't interrupt me. I'll come to the end and tell me what you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u104	Minister, don't interrupt him. If you want at the end, you can ask him. Carry on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u105	Mr President, I will also take time from my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u106	All right, Mr. Chakaloto. You can go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u107	Here, there is a battle between two worlds, in the announcements by the Prime Minister and the President of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance. There are differences within taxation, that is, what tax exemptions we would make. I give you one example: we consider it more appropriate instead of the abolition of the solidarity levy to be with a ceiling of 40,000, but for all, and pensioners and the public sector, and step by step, rather than just giving private sectors. We wouldn't do it until 800,000. If you want to clarify whether we are right, that may be three million two hundred if they are two parents with two children and each parent gives from one house to each child. We have no clarification. That thing wouldn't be a priority for us. But, in addition to that, we believe that due to the triple crisis, economic, health, climate, we need a different balance between tax reductions and an increase in spending. Because we have realised that something has changed in this world since the health crisis and the need to invest in the health system. We understand that something has changed with the climate crisis, so we must invest in dealing with this crisis and not protecting consumers from energy price increases by taking from funds that exist for those who have the right to pollutants, but with new money from the public sector, to show really how important the change we are facing is. I think you've really made a systemic mistake. You have considered or hoped that both the health crisis and the economic crisis and the climate crisis are transient and therefore you should not change at all the ideas you have about the priorities of social, economic and climate policy. And this is something that will seem to be a very big mistake, as we go to the future. For the bill, I would like to say that, as the previous speaker, Tryphoon Alexiades, said, we have a very good experience with the Legal Council of State. We think that as an agency it is very serious. He's got too many good executives. I had excellent cooperation with both the president and the people who were inside the Ministry. We, as you know, have some objections to superpowers. You told me there would be other changes to these superpowers. Your answer to the committee did not cover me enough, namely that it has always done so. What a response that is. If we consider that there are superpowers, when the model of governance has changed, it would be a huge opportunity to change this and bring changes that are more participatory, more collective, even at the Legal Council of State. Our reaction to the minority right remains to be able to publish our objections to the decision. I actually - you may tell me later - I have no idea what this is about. I don't understand why this has to change. We respect that you change it with three quarters - if I am not mistaken - so that it can be published. However, I do not think that we can vote on this without some very important changes that do not anticipate them. I'm returning to the dominant account after ID. Mr. Minister, Mr. Stakoura, I was very privileged yesterday because I went to a performance in Herodion, at Prometheus Dessiotis. There was the Deputy Minister, Mr. Skulakakis there. It was an excellent work, with a great translation from Blana, with an excellent direction from Mr. Bianiaris, with Siotas music and impressive Stancoglou and other actors. There, there were two sides to this work. On the one hand there was violence, imposition, arbitraryness, tyranny, trespass of hope, repression and the immorality of power. I don't know if Mr. Skulakakis understood any of the things that were in the play. On the other hand, there was the free spirit, the right word, humanity and hope. The way you rule reminds me of the first side, the side of Zeus, without reason, with repression, without answering the questions and "so I want" we can put whoever we want and change the laws, if necessary. You gave no hope that you understood something from this triple crisis and that something has changed. Does it need a new Prometheus in Greece worldwide? It is necessary to give the knowledge, in order to rely on the right speech, on medicines, on education, on research, but this time a collective Prometheus is needed, a Prometheus based on the combination of the right word and the knowledge and the social experiences of ordinary people in communities. It needs, because only in this way will a collective Prometheus be able to cope with both the health crisis and the economic crisis that needs profound changes in production and consumption patterns and in the climate crisis. We are not arrogant to say that we are the new Prometheus, but we are trying together with society, addressing other parties as well, because we need a collective Prometheus to gain hope against fear and repression. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Mr. Chakaloto. We continue with the list of speakers. Mr Charalambos Papadimitriou has the floor from New Democracy. Parliamentary spokesman of the Change Movement will be followed by Mr Katrinis. Here, Mr. Papadimitriou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u109	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, it is a happy time that this government has taken on the initiative of modernising and adapting certain procedures to the Legal Council of State. Recently, the Legal Council of State did a great deal of work on the "NOVARTIS" case and it is proof that the state can work collaboratively with the established knowledge providers, expertise - to say "Greek" - so that it really helps the Minister of Finance and, more generally, the country's governance in similar cases. In my opinion, it is extremely important that the two-year-old support with the best human resources that it wants to work there creates a 'giggle' in the field of legal science, so that, on top of being tied up, the views and suggestions of the law that will of course go to court and reflect or discuss the decisions of the Council of State, where necessary, where there is a place of question. However, this shows in general the direction that this majority wants to go to what we call a state, with independence on the basis of the validity, science and, of course, the interests of the state itself, namely the many in this regard. Because I too read Prometheus, as anyone reads him, we are free to read him and interpret him, and there is no reason to "slap him up" partisanly and we must keep his prestige high. I don't understand, Mr. Chakatte. Mr. Tsipras didn't see him? He was there. We've seen him everywhere in the cosmic columns of the newspapers. So there is modernization and transformation and all these elements that have been supported by KINAL, if I have understood from the suggestion I have heard. I think there is an opportunity to understand that, in the end, the work of the House may be roughly divided into three pieces. One is the resolution of the current details of the administration which, unfortunately, have to reach the House. I would once hope that regulations on the day-to-day governance procedure would not have to be reached in the House, but this has been the case for at least twenty-five years. The other is about initiatives that want to take a political majority. The third concerns the general arrangements for the smooth operation of the State. I am taking the example of the Legal Council of the State to say that we need to invest much more in this part, namely in the good functioning of the state. Unfortunately, these days we have been following a project. That's how the season is. It is the Thessaloniki Exhibition, the speeches of the Heads, the attempt to forge for the championship that starts every year at this time. I understand all this, and unfortunately I have had to manage it for thirty-eight years. I started writing speeches and then I went on reading speeches. But what is problematic is that we are talking these days about certain things that go beyond 'I put so much, the other comes and puts more'. This is like cultivating something else in the world that returns to its jobs, returns to find the confidence it needs, so that we get out of the pandemic, but also the ten-year crisis within it. It is not right, in my opinion, what the Civic Opposition attempts to create something that cannot support at all, asking for elections to someone who says "I am not going to do them" and knowing that the constitutional check is to be made at four years' time. So you should normally criticise Mitsotakis if he was going to run elections because that's how it suits him. But here, they are asking for something different that creates in the economy and society a situation that can happen, and in fact, what can happen is to work better, to work more intensively. I come to this in order to suggest, with the Minister of Finance, that he thinks in the Chamber and, of course, in the government to see the procedurals, on a subject which most impressed me personally from what the Qualified Opposition in Thessaloniki promised. I think that in the matter arising from the great success of the German 'e-FOD', it is the fact that we, the government, Parliament, do not have time to adapt to the developments which life itself creates entrepreneurship itself. Nevertheless, I firmly believe - and I shall end with this, Mr President - that it is right to take a step further in this country, coming out of such a long and long crisis and keeping the flexible forms of work that we have and which have been improved and strengthened by the Hatzidakis Act that we have voted on. There is a form of work and it is supersufficient to cover all major technological discoveries in the workplace. This is called wage-earning, it is called a job description, and there must be a proper commitment to workers, who in the end undertake this subject of work. A competition like the one evolving in this special market. I think that it is not at this moment to protect - if Mr Chakalotos were here, he could have agreed with me - to protect the workers who are absolutely necessary for society to function and the pandemic showed us that. It must be done in the traditional way that people work. The platforms may be very smart in managing the wills we have to choose what we want. The platforms for managing people's flexibility must not be just as bold and arbitrary, as it turns out and as has finally been shown by this very unfortunate event. So, Minister of Finance, I would like you to come through and think to the Government that such exceptions do not need to be made. Let us follow what we have, wage labour, the tactical contract and build on it. It is a good guide, so that those who discover platforms and technologies know that this is the norm and they have nothing to respect it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Mr. Papadimitriou. We will now give the floor to the Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement, Mr Katrin, and then the Minister for Finance, Mr Stagioras, asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u111	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u112	Mr Philie, we are also trying to speak to Members, to speak to both the ministers and the Minister, who is responsible for the bill, and also to the parliamentary representatives who are embleming.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u113	The Minister answered.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u114	Do not complain because I think the Bureau, Mrs Giannakopoulos, was very beneficial to you. So don't complain.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u115	Every three Members of Parliament speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u116	Wait a minute, Mr. Philly. We'll come to an understanding. Oh, my God. Minister, do you now want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u117	After Mr. Friend.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u118	Good. Here you go, Mr. Catarini, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u119	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as expressed in the public debate, I believe that the country's political problem is reflected in the false dilemmas that both New Democracy and SYRIZA want to put to Greek citizens. On the one hand, Mr Tsipras asks that he be voted on so that Mr Mitsotakis can leave. Mr. Mitsotakis, however, did not come to power alone. The policy of the previous SYRIZA government and despite both the deterioration of its own and its government, New Democracy is in the first place, because very simply this SYRIZA does not inspire anyone and certainly does not express the core of the democratic party. Both New Democracy and SYRIZA are being strangled in announcements and promises that they cannot implement. They act as if they do not know the commitments for the major primary surpluses, surpluses of more than 2.2% in 2023, which even reach 3.7% in 2025, as at least have been reflected in the medium term, which was voted on a few months ago. The New Democracy, which is government and has agreed to these primary surpluses, does not exactly say how we will achieve it, apart from the fact that we will achieve a great deal of growth. Evidently, the Greek citizens will be informed after having voted in the elections which will apparently take place in 2022. But SYRIZA does not say anything, SYRIZA, who himself accepted high primary surpluses, which he covered with the overtaxation that eliminated the middle-class. Neither New Democracy nor SYRIZA have spoken of a new necessary national proposal that is central to the revision of the rules of the Financial Stability Pact. And, yes, the country needs a government with a point of reference for the democratic party, a progressive government with the PASOK again protagonist. And the upcoming processes in the Change Movement, although not the subject of this debate, seem to employ both New Democracy and SYRIZA, through this juncture they give the opportunity to regenerate the great democratic party and to play its historic role. This is the case at the same time that people are once again trying to wrestle the anguish of progressive citizens, adopting communication tactics or invoking historical reports, such as “lifting up the sun above Greece”, reports that have been identified with the DNA and history of PASOK. However, the democratic party does not stand before a green background, but if it stands and is confronted with history, because the democratic party has always had patriotic positions on national issues. He never had a voice when people were trying to drag Greece into acts and agreements that they themselves were baptizing a compromise. That is why the democratic party as a government defended national sovereign rights at any time and made it clear that it did not grant anything. Today we have reached the point, not to say to the front, that Mr Tsavosoglu and Mr Erdogan should inform us about developments in the Greek-Turkish dialogue and then Mr Erdogan would pre-invigorate a meeting with the Greek Prime Minister, which the government initially disagrees with and then is folding. No reason, of course, to discuss political leaders in this House, nor any reason to convene a council of political leaders to draw up a national line and a strategy, national consensus and consensus, which at least we as a Change Movement and consultation and consensus have acted on in this Chamber. We are doing so today, ladies and gentlemen of the government, with our positive points and remarks on a bill, which we believe is actually reforming the Legal Council of State and I fully appreciate the high scientific training of its officials and we really believe it is necessary to modernise, strengthen competences and simplify procedures. Our rapporteur, Costas Scandalidis, very well expressed reservations about the overpowering, over-responsibility of the President at the expense of the plenary, which I think could be a convergence point, as well as the issue of the spatial distribution of services and the timing of implementation. There is also the issue - 'catches' for too many who participated in the last competition. Mrs Nadia Giannakopoulou will be mentioned in detail, which has dealt with this matter at length. It is a matter where too many feel that they are wrong and I think we should probably have a last debate on corrective intervention. And since you in the committee, Minister, said that one of the objectives of this bill, in which we are, in principle, well-intentioned, is the rapid administration of justice and the implementation of the judgments of the Court of Justice, the institutions, the citizens, what the New Democracy's governance has done in the past twenty-six months on the issue of speeding up the administration of justice. You know very well - I am sure you know - that one of the indicators of the World Bank's 'Doing Business', which is the time of the days from a court proceedings until the final decision on its execution, Greece is in third place from the end between eighty and eighty-four countries with a demanding time of a thousand seven hundred eleven days. Here's the table. I'll testify to him in the Minutes. The government, of course, supports too much in the Recovery Fund. However, I think that when it comes to a axis 4.3, where reference is made to improving the efficiency of the justice system, it is exhausted in dealing with private debt, reducing red loans with rapid bankruptcies and direct auctions, I think that is not the objective, that is not the direction. Surely technology is a very important assistant in our time, but we think you're overreacting any digital capabilities that you present as panacea as the solution to all problems. Not only do the problems of the Legal Council of the State but also of any other body by scanning all documents by creating clouds, where they will be archived. In relation to Amendment No 1065 and special 167, which facilitate banks in the transfer of debt due to unsatisfactory tax profits in the following year, I should highlight what is stated in the relevant opinion of the European Central Bank on 29 July 2021, where it describes characteristics that ‘the ECB notes the high percentage of definitive and cleared requirements in the CET 1 capital ratios of the Greek systemic credit institutions, which is not intended to be reduced further in the medium term. It remains a matter that raises supervisory concern.’ And the proposed new amortisation mechanism does not exclude the risk that definitive and defined requirements have not been fully or partially absorbed within the planned 20 years. And the European Central Bank generally calls on the applicant authority to revise the Greek framework of requirements in the short or medium term in order to provide a more integrated and structural solution. We had had the relevant debate in the Senate, too, when we were talking about the issue of the management of red loans and had been pointed out - not by us, by the Governor of the Bank of Greece - the problem of deferred tax requirement and how dangerous this could be for the capital adequacy of credit institutions. And we had also criticised, of course, the red loan model, where you - I mean as government - were left and you showed it by bringing 'HRAKLE II' to this model two months ago. The banks then, when asked, broke their garments that there is no problem and that they have made the necessary supervisory capital provisions. And now the banks themselves are running through this amendment. And because we are talking about a banking system, I saw with interest, Minister - I did not have time to read why this morning we were notified - in the report of a registered newspaper, the newspaper 'KATHMERINA' on page 24, the data on the Financial Stability Fund with losses of 2.1 billion in 2020, of which 1.3 is due to the conversion of Cocos into shares, which was an object of discussion, remember, we had it in plenary as well. I was amazed - and indeed he says - that it is a critical point - the high administrative cost of the fund, which actually ensures public participation in the banking system, with 50% of the costs for consultants, doubles the costs for lawyers' salaries and a fee for directors who, ladies and gentlemen, are EUR 271,000 per year, namely EUR 742 per day, Mr Papademiriou, since we were talking about the distributors of 'e-FOD', who probably this month - I do not know if - have such remuneration. It is a point which, although not the subject of the debate and of the plenary, I think it should give us some thought. And since we are talking about red loans, about the amendment to the deferred tax requirement because of the securitisations and because of the entire management, private debt that remains the biggest problem in the country today, which exceeds 250 billion, I do not know the government in this part of what it has to present to this day. Three and a half million debtors owe tax, 1.8 billion increased the debt of legal persons between 2020 and 2021, according to the report of the Parliament's Budget Office in June 2021, and to forced recovery measures are over three hundred thousand debtors. The unpaid taxes in July, according to the report yesterday, amounted to 3.17 billion, with an increase of 24% compared to last year, while the fresh dues - compared to last July, despite the fact that they could not be directly comparable because we had suspensions - were at a great increase of 71%. Red loans of 61 billion have been transferred to management companies. I have heard you talk to the committee about the seventy-five thousand households who have entered GEOFYRA, which is important. Of these, over 90% are up-to-date loans. So red loans have not been supported and have not been helped to regulate and solve them, because the criteria have been such that red loans are not created on the banks' balance sheets, rather than on helping our fellow citizens to regulate the loans and to save the forced execution measures. There is also a platform that regulates bank loans, as the government has said, in four hundred twenty instalments and the remaining debts in two hundred forty instalments. I entered the special platform yesterday and saw that by 31 August we have thirty-three thousand debtors who have been on the platform and twenty-three thousand who have completed the data. The question therefore is how many arrangements have been made since 1 June, Minister, so that the citizens - almost four months after the extrajudicial settlement mechanism has been implemented - how many arrangements have been made and what a haircut has been made to the amount of the debt. So do we have four hundred twenty or two hundred forty dose settings that the government was advertising with so much ease? Do we have haircuts from the entire debt? It would be interesting to see the figures because you might celebrate and say that you have reduced the red loans of 46 billion in the banks' balance sheets, but at the same time this has not been accompanied by an increase in liquidity, which is the second major problem of the Greek economy in small and medium-sized enterprises. It is known that only thirty thousand companies from the four hundred thousand have access to both banking and the recovery fund loans and, despite unprecedented liquidity from the European Central Bank at a negative rate, it remains a forbidden word for the vast majority of small and medium-sized enterprises. The loans were granted to large firms. The interest rate is forbidden, compared with the like companies abroad. Indeed, I would like to mention, ladies and gentlemen, that the Development Bank Guarantee Fund, which has a total of EUR 400 million, until recently only EUR 30 million had been disbursed. This and because of the very strict criteria, and despite the fact that 80% of the loan is guaranteed. You as a government, because you see that there is no absorption, instead of opening the terms and conditions of getting more easily into this fund, what are you doing? You are broadening the amount of funding, that is, the same few companies can take more money, so that there is a absorption of the private fund on the one hand, and the limits of the turnover, and what needs to be done is to open up the criteria, with which companies can be subject to the Bank's loans. No facilitation measures in this direction. No real intervention of the liquidity observatory, despite the continuing meetings of the Minister with the bankers. Unfortunately, until now, nothing has changed in this area. And I would like to add that since the first time we pointed out the danger, Minister, and we asked you and we were brave enough to welcome the measure of the return of an advance, it is worrying that the IGC did not have a new measure of repayable advance as liquidity injection in companies, which are excluded from the banks, which have terrible debts from the past, and they have no chance of getting liquidity, and are actually waiting for a sudden death in the medium of accuracy, which all citizens, ladies and gentlemen, have seen in the last four months, but it is not seen by the Development Ministry. I have here - I will submit it in the Minutes - sixteen - not a press release from the Ministry of Development, which every week informs us of the checks it makes on the market for illegal trade and the fines it imposes, for the checks it makes on the market for the application of measures, for the pandemic, if they are implemented. No controls, however, and no fines, Mr Brutsi, because you are a man of the market - for the possible ruthlessness or for the fight against such phenomena. Obviously, the Ministry does not consider that there is a wave of precision or shame, which is why it does not check, and that is why the press releases do not have any fines on this problem, which employs the vast majority of Greek citizens, and despite the signatories' support measures for energy costs, which I fear are also on the wrong basis of assessment, no VAT reduction measures on basic types of consumption and nutrition, no measures to reduce excises on fuel, no intervention on excessively high costs on mobile phones, which remains on a carded market. Because the government is celebrating the growth rate, the ratings from the houses, and that is good, and we want growth, because the whole will certainly be facilitated and fewer tax measures will be required - of course, the Minister of Finance must say so, not because he is present, he is always glamorous in his public interventions, as opposed to other Ministers of the productive ministries - I mean, Minister, that I am concerned about the trade balance deficit of July 2021, which had an increase of 28%. In the seven months of January - July 2021 we had a deficit of 7 billion in the current account balance, despite improvement in July. And because I do not want to talk about the primary budgetary deficit - because it is clear that a country which has an expansionary budgetary policy to support professionals, residents in the measures against the pandemic will have a primary budgetary deficit - I cannot avoid the 2009 contribution, which we again had twin deficits and is well known where the country ended and what it needed, what budgetary measures are painful to follow in the next period. Therefore, apart from the biblical and celebrations of major successes in development, in assessments by houses, in measures to alleviate the middle class, which do not concern all the categories of our fellow citizens - even in the issue of property taxation you say that HNVY will be reduced, but you do not say that by increasing objective values we have nineteen real estate taxes that will increase together with the increase in objective values - we believe that your choices do not favour the many, favour the few and the strong ones. We have a veritable disagreement with the policy applied. We believe that on issues such as today's obviously there are signs of convergence and consensus, and I think that our attitude has proved that. But we are calling on you on the more general issues of fiscal policy and policy with a social and class mark to look a little lower, the people who feel today that they are marginalized, the people who feel today that their future is really uncertain without specific support measures and prospects for their future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, Mr. Catherine. We will now give the floor to Mr. Friend Nikolaos from SYRIZA, and after Mr. Friends will take the floor the Minister of Finance, Mr. Stagioras, then Mr. Paschalides, Mr. Georgantas, State Secretary for Digital Governance, for three minutes in connection with an amendment - articles of an amendment - and then Mr. Georgiodas Giannakopoulou from the Change Movement. Here, Mr. Philly, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, Mr President. For the amendment tabled by the SYRIZA Members and rejected by Mr Vorides on the grounds that this breaks down the unity of the law, I would like to say that this is an amendment that the government accepted last year, so that some thirty cleaners and cleaners foreigners can continue their work as school cleaners, a project which some of them have followed for over twenty years. Look, of course, we must not bend, as the Minister says, the unity of the law, provided that the poor, the incident, the unrighteous worker in fact does not pay the broken money. He proposed a regulation by the Minister. Does the Municipality of Athens not know this arrangement? I wonder why here - I put it in the Minutes - I have the unanimous decision of the Municipality of Athens, the City Council, which calls for legislation on this matter. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Philis, presents for the minutes the abovementioned decision, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Let's see. If, however, this regulation proposed by the Minister does not apply, it is a matter of political order, but of moral and legal order, for those people who have been offering school cleaning for so many years, because - I repeat - with the right measure of converting contracts from work contracts to fixed-term contracts - which is the right measure - cannot lead to unemployment, redundancy and unemployment. And now for the Health Ministry's amendment on vaccination issues, the amendment also proposes the well-known announcement of the 50 GB free of charge to children, to young people receiving vaccines. Let me make it clear that we are in favour of vaccination and we have all possible influence with conviction, with arguments to vaccinate the general population and young children to deal with the pandemic. Another thing is to start playing with gifts. Will you tell me, the bad thing is to have 50 GB kids for free? No, not at all, it is good, but that is an irony, because last year these children didn't even have 50 GBs from the government, not even electronic equipment to attend the lessons remotely. And this year's announcements are a confession of the failure of the vaccination program and cannot cover up the upcoming pandemic wave that scans and the new generation more with the Delta mutation. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in favour of schools being open and universities opening up in terms of safety, health and safety, while dealing with issues that have to do at the same time with educational and social issues. We think there should be a free test for students - and for students, anyway - and EGE workshops should be in the major schools and universities. I read the communication, the EGE's directives, about repeats what the EGE said last year, but I read it: 'It is important to define and agree at local level the precise ways of implementing the general principles of prevention measures in schools on the initiative and intelligence both in relation to the whole organisation of school life and in relation to the use of spaces and other resources available in each school and wider community', spaces and other resources in the school and in general in the community, namely the dilution of the school population, what the government has stubbornly refused to do with delusional arguments that provocatively, monotonous and indifferently said from this Step of the House yesterday that 'we have doubled rooms and double teachers'. This is not what EIAH asks, with ingenuity, to organise school life on the basis of the resources and spaces of the school and the wider community. Tell me one room for two years that you've found to go to a department that has twenty-seven children! A room tell me! You didn't look or find anything, of course! I would not like to continue, but it is not possible with such lies, with the Ministry's misunderstood answers, to deal with the threatened wave of pandemic in education and children. Secondly, why does the Ministry no longer announce on his website the daily number of cases per school, as he did last year? Why doesn't he do that? Isn't that a part of public health, public health surveillance? Thirdly, why does it insist on a regulation which will in practice be suppressed, according to which, in order to close a section, the majority of the children of the department must be ill? So, in one department of 20 children if two, three, four children, the other parents will send their children, do you believe in this department? It is logical to speak, that these arrangements are absurd, and that is when the measure of the dilution of the population is not taken. They don't give masks this year, last year they gave those balloons, as you remember, the mask fiasco last year, and this year they don't give any masks. We'll get to the problem. We don't even have school cleaners. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. There is a very serious issue, it is about the attacks of teachers in several schools, incidents, pre-conflicts, sues and actions by uninvasive parents, who are motivated - in the general sense - by the general climate of the extreme right and delinquent institutions, which we see as retired Macedonians and as the'retireds of 666', to parade to various gatherings. And they are creating a climate - I repeat - with tolerance and religious factors, I stress this. We have complaints that in some areas seconded teachers in metropolitan cities are leading in incidents against teachers - look out against teachers! - to ensure that the EGE's school protocols do not apply. I think that these phenomena should be rejected, and Mrs Kerameo cannot punish the island. He did it with Mr. Bogdano - Mr. God and his soul! - So he did it with Bogdano, he didn't say anything, he does it now, and with these chapel interventions by the transfusioners. Ladies and gentlemen, the fight for life - because this is the battle for the pandemic - must also be accompanied by the fight for a life-long life, for strengthening the ESS, for strengthening workers' incomes, for strengthening education. And unfortunately, the government does not give this battle. It gives us another battle, since it considered pandemic to be a bad adversary - that is what we were told so long - and the only one that remains today in the government is nothing but self-regulatory measures, which, unfortunately, are not imposed, needs consensus, especially in the new world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u122	All right, thanks to Mr. Friend. We will now give the floor to the Minister of Finance, Mr Christos Stakoura. Mr Pascalidis will follow, as I said before, Mr Georgades to support an amendment and Mrs Giannakopoulou from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u123	Mr President, after Mrs Giannakopoulou, may I have the floor as a parliamentarian?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u124	Yes, all right, Mr. Brutsi, as a parliamentarian. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u125	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will begin by thanking once again the administration and officials of the Legal Council of State for the excellent cooperation we have had over the past two years - I am glad that this cooperation has been in place with previous governments - for their significant contribution to the public affairs of the country and for their productive participation in the preparation and completion of the draft law under discussion. This is a draft law which obviously has the ultimate responsibility for the political leadership of the Ministry of Finance and the Minister of Finance personally, but it has been drawn up in cooperation with the officials of the Legal Council of State themselves, as it confirms - and I will table it in plenary too - Practical 524 of 25 and 28 May 2021 of the Legal Council of State. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Why is there a need to change the organisation? As I said to the committee, because, over the past twenty years from the entry into force and application of this agency, there has been a need for reforming organic provisions, with a view to modernising its structure and functioning, as well as for the service situation and disciplinary responsibility of their officials and staff. In particular, the 20-year-old functioning of the Law Council of the State with the applicable body has demonstrated the need to achieve flexibility and simplification of procedures in its way of operation, speed up its course of action, qualitative upgrading of its work, but also to contribute to a faster administration of justice in so far as some of the services provided by the Legal Council of the State concern the handling of judicial cases with public-law parties, independent authorities or other bodies in the public sector, whose competence is to provide legal support. The second question I have raised, and I think it has also been demonstrated by the rapporteurs in the committee, are what the main objectives of the new organisation are. The first objective is the digital transformation of the Legal Council of the State and the electronic operation within and outside of the State, issues - to come back to our dear colleague, SYRIZA - who did not discuss 20 years ago at the Legal Council of State. The second objective is to restructure and modernise the structure and functioning of the State Legal Council with an emphasis on the skills and economy of staff and resources. Thirdly, the aim is to simplify the procedures of the Legal Council of State, to eliminate bureaucratic practices and to contribute to the rapid administration of justice and to the enforcement of the judgments of the courts. The fourth objective is to strengthen the constitutional competences of the State’s Legal Board for an ex-judicial or compromise settlement of disputes between the public and other bodies with private individuals. Fifth and final aim is to modernise the institutional framework governing the general service status of the officials of the Legal Council of State, as well as the conditions and procedure for entry into it of new ministers, so that the main body providing legal services in the public and public sector can meet the modern requirements. As I have committed myself to the committee, the government, by listening to opposition parties and bodies, comes to table a series of legislative improvements in this draft law, which I am tabling in the Minutes to be distributed in good time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u126	You will only allow me to show four, five of them as a result of yesterday's position. Firstly, in Chapter I and in Article 4, as I said yesterday, the legal support of the Interministerial Committee for Reconstruction and Privileges is supplemented as the responsibility of the Legal Council of the State, following the remarks made by two anti-population parties. However, I would point out that this case in the bill was not included by the Legal Council of State itself, since the Interministerial Committee for Restructuring and Privatisation has never so far requested legal assistance from the Legal Council of State. In Article 8 now and in relation to the three-month time limit for the adoption of an opinion, legislative improvement is therefore made which allows the operator of the case, if complex legal or factual issues arise in the course of the preparation of the opinion, to request an extension of up to a two-month period from the President or the President of the Chamber or the Plenary Assembly. In Article 9, which I mentioned yesterday, and in relation to the non-inclusion of the minority opinion in the body of the opinion or in the minutes, legislation is put in place which provides that the judgement of the section or of the plenary in order to assist the superior public interest or pressing needs in order not to register the minority opinion in the minutes or in the opinion is required not only a reasoned opinion on the assistance of the higher public interest or pressing needs, but also an increased majority of three quarters of the votes cast. In any event, the separate practice in which the minority opinion is registered shall be taken into account in the light of the Minister for Finance. Legislative improvement is provided in Article 16 whereby, following an assessment of the existing circumstances and needs, the formation of formations of judicial and extrajudicial cases is gradually carried out. In Article 21, as I said yesterday, and in connection with the merger or abolition of offices of the Legal Council of the State outside the Attica Region, the relevant date shall be postponed from 15 September 2022 to 15 September 2023 and the possibility of maintaining offices in cities which are also public offices other than those in which regions are established is envisaged. With regard to Article 60, a legislative improvement shall be made by deleting the paragraph of the article providing the President of the Legal Council of the State to impose a wage cut in certain cases in the poor performance of the duties by officials of the Legal Council of State. This improvement moves in the direction of limiting the powers of the President of the Legal Council of State, where there is no particular reason for the opposite. With regard to Article 106, and with regard to the conversion of existing administrative posts, legislative improvements are made in order to transform these positions into branches of legal, administrative, financial, administrative, accounting, IT and IT sectors. This change is in response to an observation heard by the State Chamber of Economics, which is considered reasonable. These are, for example, some of the legislative improvements we have tabled in the House. All of them are in the knowledge of the leadership of the Legal Council of State, which has fully agreed, but, as I had promised, the Union of Member States, which attributes as a response that the legislative improvements are moving in the right direction in relation to the Union's resignations. To be honest, however, the Union lists three more, four more changes that it would like and which are not accepted by the political leadership of the Ministry of Finance. After all, there is no such problem from the Scientific Service of the Parliament. I heard something about the organisation's consultation. Indeed, the consultation started on June 5 and ended June 19, 2021, that is, on all bills, two weeks. It didn't change anything. We have taken advantage of the time given on the basis of the existing institutional framework for consultation. No discounts on consultation. At the teleconferencing conference - and I reply to a number of individual questions mainly of the Officerial Response - in disciplinary matters documents are handled confidentially, and during the teleconferencing conference there is a release by the sharing of the screen. The persecutor shall participate in the proceedings and with a lawyer. The convening of the Administrative Assembly at the request of the General Assembly now requires at least one hundred and seventy-nine members, and only twenty members of the Council of State, who are also members of the General Assembly, are proposed. Promotions shall be made in agreement with the relevant Staff Council and the Minister of Finance's decision. Assent to non-promotion is insulted before Parliament. Article 38 for the first time provides the possibility of appointing an AME, unless it is confirmed by specialist doctors that they cannot fulfil the duties of a member of the Board of Legal Affairs of the State. It is the same provision as that of the judicial officers. The method of setting up the competition committee has not substantially changed, but the rating system is improved, since the oral rating is ‘20’ versus ‘80’ of the written one. So the system is more objective, more valuable, more impartial. Finally, the comparison of opinions and judgments is unfortunate. The judgment shall resolve a binding decision, a specific case, with specific parties. The Constitution requires the justification of the judicial decision, without the corresponding provision for the opinion. The opinion may relate to an undetermined number of persons. It may be confidential and the majority view may not be published. Therefore, in conclusion, I will close this section concerning the core of the bill, the changes that we made to the bill and the hearing of both the parties to the opposition and the bodies, as the President of the State Legal Council closed down. He said, "I am sure that with this bill..." - and I agree - "our intention as the Legal Council of the State, but also the Minister of Finance, is the best functioning of the Law Council of the State and the defence of the public interest by officials with specialised knowledge and scientific competence, so that they really contribute to the rule of law on the one hand by citizens, but on the other, to the more rapid administration of justice and to the non-consciousness of the citizen by appealing at all times to courts, when they can out-of-court through the Legal Council to resolve his affairs." So I think I was and we were completely transparent and clear in our positions for the objectives of this draft law. All ministerial amendments are accepted and no parliamentary amendments are accepted. You will allow me, however, because here in the Chamber we often talk outside the core of the draft law that we have to deal with, I also have to get carried away because I have to give some answers, essentially in two sections: first, what is the reality today? Secondly, where does the Greek economy go? The most important thing, in the end, for whom does the government work, for many or for the few? I find it hard to hear the officials of the Officers and Mr Tsakalotos saying very simply that a rate of economic growth this year was self-evident that we would have. I wonder what they said this self-evident in September, but a few months ago they were not calling it or smiling something much smaller. I have here, therefore, an accelerating of the so-called members of the Officerial Response - and not only - in this Chamber on how the situation will evolve in the real economy, than there will be no growth this year and there will be some positive indicators close to 3% - now we are talking about 5.9% - than we will be in a vicious circle of recession. Colleague of Officer Opposition said a vicious circle of recession. Today, Mr. Chakalotos said there would be growth. They also said that this will be the budget that will fall farther out of anyone else in the past and that all forecasts are happily. I have to say that I have been criticised and personally - I wish it has always been this criticism in the government over the years - that reality is progressing better than the forecasts of the Ministry of Finance. We had estimated a 10.5% recession this year and had a 8.2% recession, as can be seen from the figures. We had appreciated an economic growth of 3.6% this year, new estimates are for 5.9%. I think that this is a conquest of the political leadership of the Ministry of Finance, that is to say, saying little and doing a lot. And I am pleased that the Parliamentary spokesman of the Change Movement has recognised, in the face of the political leadership of the Ministry of Finance, the possibility of acting modestly, not by bridgingly and not by celebrating, but by reflecting as much reality as he can, which is due to the long-term sacrifices of society and to the effort to restore society itself, of course with policies implemented by the current government. So, ladies and gentlemen, where are we? Today, what is the state of the real economy? We agree that this year the country will have a strong economic growth rate. Basically, it will cover at least two thirds of the 2020 loss, when people here in this Chamber did not believe it and said that we would not even cover the 2020 loss in 2022. Investments are multiplied and exports are increased. So not only do we achieve a high rate of economic growth, but we also achieve the productive reconstruction of the economy by increasing investment and exports more than consumption increases, which should also be increased. Unemployment is shrinking. ELSTAT's figures do not need to be disproved. This year, unemployment is three percentage points less than it was two years ago. Industrial production records a steady upward trend. Businesses are starting business, processing is being strengthened, building activity is growing - we have recently seen the data - the economic climate is moving at a pandemic. With regard to deposits, despite the fact that the economy has been properly opened and functioning, there is consumption and increased deposits, electronic transactions are being strengthened. Non-performing loans shall be reduced. The cost of borrowing on money markets is consistently negative. The cost of borrowing on capital markets is historically low. The country is being upgraded and the competitiveness of the economy is improving. I think that these are indicators of the economy which reflect a rapid return to normality and a right course in the country, society and the economy. I would like to respond to Mr Scandalidis, who is quite reasonable and his party, the Change Movement, systematically raise the question of reducing red loans, that the choice of the government with the Bank of Greece and the institutions to implement and extend the programme "HERAKLIS I" first and then "HERAKLIS II" has proved to be a good political initiative. Today we are talking, Mr Colleague, that red loans are EUR 29.4 billion. We received it at EUR 75.3 billion. We received them in June 2019 at EUR 75.3 billion, it was EUR 107.2 billion in March 2016. Today is EUR 29.4 billion. Should we look at them as a percentage of the loans? It's 20.3% today when we received it at 43.6%. So these shapes of the current government have succeeded and succeeded. That is why the institutions themselves come and do not raise any such issue that you have raised. The institutions and rating houses barely come and say that the country will lead to a one-digit amount of red loans of time and why it seems that a new generation of red loans is not created because of government interventions over the last two years. It seems, then, that we should achieve the goal of not raising the padlocks too much, such as phobia a few months ago and significantly strengthen liquidity in the economy. I proved it to you with the testimonies. So we achieve that. And here we are to see how we can deal with other problems in the banking system. To be honest, however, the reduction of red loans is an essential element for the country to go to an investment grade as soon as possible. This does not mean that private debt has fallen. I agree with the other colleague of the Change Movement, the Parliamentary Representative. We are improving the quality of the banks' assets so that there can be a greater credit expansion. However, the problem of private debt remains and the government has not hidden it under the carpet. Legislate and implement a new law. At the same time, however, we are also coming with complementary projects such as the GEYRA programme, such as other programmes, and we are helping borrowers. Have all the problems solved? Oh, no. And unemployment is high and inequalities exist and poverty exists. We have not come to triumph, but I will repeat this: all indicators converge and contribute to finding that we operate in a methodical and serious manner and that is why we are achieving the objectives. I close, in response to the last question raised. Who is the government with? Indeed, we have a fundamental difference of philosophy and politics, mainly with Civic Opposition, but also with other parties in anti-population. We are with society as a whole. We want more wealth to be produced and fairly distributed. And we have shown from the first political choice of this government how we mean that we are with society as a whole. For example, I'll tell you. Do you remember in July 2019 what was the first initiative with my dear colleague Mr. Vesiropoulos? Let's reduce HISBIA. What did we say? We said that for small estates of up to EUR 60,000, HNVY will be reduced by 30%, from EUR 60,000 to EUR 70,000 to EUR 27%, from EUR 70,000 to EUR 80,000 25%, from EUR 80,000 to EUR 1 000 000 20% and from EUR 10% very large property. So we came and proved that the whole society must get a dividend of the effort it itself made in order to rebuild the country, reconstruct and develop sustainablely. The extent, however, to be assisted by each social layer, has to do with social justice priorities set by the current government. So, because I want to be very precise again, and because tomorrow we have the winding-up of HISBSY, I will remind you of what has been the case for the last two years from this government: EUR 1 to EUR 500,000, i.e. the lower income layers and middle class - I think we agree on this - it was helped by 86% of the total relief, those with real estate of up to 200,000 euros - there would be no relief from the previous government or from what the previous government planned. With the present arrangement, which has been in force for the last two years, we have for the first time a million three hundred thousand of our compatriots with real estate from EUR 80,000 to EUR 200,000 - I do not believe that these wealthy people - who have seen greater relief than the previous government was planning for the last two years. How much? From EUR 90 to EUR 170. These are typical examples that the current government has decided and implemented a policy that returns dividends throughout society, but with social, economic efficiency and social recompense, with particular emphasis on the middle-class and lower-income segments. If you don't get this example, let's go see some more that were announced in Thessaloniki as well: The loan grant programme - which concerns seventy-five thousand households - relates to the middle-class, and many of these borrowers are informant households. For the first time this government helps and consistency, it rewards consistency. Our fellow citizens who were affected by the crisis, but who paid their loans, have not paid the loan instalment for nine months, first pays the state 90% of the dose and then a lower percentage. Also, seventy - five thousand households, most of which belong to the middle class, were helped and will be helped for another three months by the current government. We did the program of 100 thousand new jobs covering the state of insurance contributions for both businesses and workers for a period of six months. This one hundred thousand-dollar programme, designed together with Mr Giannis Vroutsi, together with the two ministries, succeeded. Eighty-five thousand people have found jobs, eight and a half thousand of them are long-term unemployed who have received a grant of an additional EUR 200. And we're expanding this programme for another fifty thousand jobs. I heard about the returnable deposit. I think you are all accepting - and I am glad about that - that there is an agreement here that the repayable advance has helped very much to micro-enterprises, so the middle-class and lower incomes. And we came to Thessaloniki this plan to make it even more attractive for the next day for these businesses, for the middle class and the lowest income levels. As soon as 28% of enterprises return a quarter, 39% a third and 33% a 50%. Here, then, is another measure that helps the lower income layers and the middle class. Heating allowance: The heating allowance you know who gets it. And because I see too many of the province's MPs here, you know very well from your compatriots that it is mostly about the lowest income layers and the middle class. That increases by 20%. So here's what our goal is. Subsidy to compensate for the entire expected power increase. It concerns the middle class and lower income levels. HISBIA told you that it's falling by 22%. I have proved to you by percentages what the distribution is. The import tax rate on natural persons from 22% to 9% who are concerned? It concerns per capita income, since it is in the import tax rate, and in the middle class. The tax advance on natural persons engaged in business from 100% to 55% who are concerned? Apparently the middle class. In enterprises, the tax reduction from 29% to 22% covers all enterprises, large, medium-sized, small and medium-sized and medium-sized. Here is another proof that we are returning to society as a whole, but as we have said in terms of social justice. So this is not about the whole middle class and lower income levels? Insurance contributions were reduced by one plus three percentage points. Those paid with a minimum wage have an overall annual benefit of between EUR 305 and EUR 534. Who's this about? Those with a monthly salary of 700 euros will have an annual benefit of 160 euros. Those who have 1,000 euros an annual benefit of 355 euros. Those who have 2,000 euros an annual benefit of 691 euros. Who's this about? Isn't it about middle-class and lower-income layers? The extension of the application of the reduced tax rates to which it relates? Isn't it about society as a whole? Aren't they indirect taxes? Does the indirect taxes not touch the lowest income levels? Aren't we going to help them? And I'm closing up with the abolition of parental benefits and donations for first-degree relatives. Here I will repeat something that no one from the Qualified Opposition has pointed it out. First of all, we're talking about up to 800,000 euros in mobile and real estate. The movable property nobody mentions it. I will therefore repeat this because it is a key point. As far as the donation of money from a parent to a child has so far been subject to a 10% tax rate from the first euro. So a parent who donates his child to say 300, 500, 1,000 euros - we are not talking about the great fortune, so - for any purpose or pays rent on behalf of his child or donates to his child an amount to get a car should pay 10% tax. Since October this is abolished and benefits all Greek families, 100% of Greece's families. Nobody mentions it in the Opposition. Neither did Mr. Chakalotos mention that while I challenged him. As far as real estate is concerned, I think I've made you clear through specific indicators and through HICPIA exactly how we help the whole of society. And it's up to 800,000 euros, it's not 800,000 euros. Here, too, we need to have a serious discussion about how many natural persons and how many households are with real estate up to a height of Greece. For example, at the percentages of real estate, which I mentioned for the ENVY previously, the value of agricultural parcels is not included. Therefore, the entire property is significantly higher for many of our compatriots. You know that in Greece the property is often fragmented. Among the members of the family, the percentages of flea ownership and preservatives are shared. So there are issues that we should see. And I close by saying that we double the minimum guaranteed income for December, which covers five hundred thousand or two hundred and seven thousand households. This is about the lowest income levels! I have shown you, therefore, through concrete references to what the ideological project of the current government is: the project of social liberalism, the social market economy, economic efficiency and social recompense, greater wealth and fair distribution of wealth. And yes, we will continue to operate with rationality, with serious responsibility, with realism, with perceptiveness and modesty towards the voices of Officer Responsibility, who continue to voice voices of creative ambiguity, voices of irresponsibility, voices of illusion, voices of illusion, voices of illusion, voices of opinion that do not convince their MEPs either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u127	Thank you, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u128	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u129	What exactly do you want, Mr. Catarini? Question or clarification?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u130	Can I make an intervention in relation to what the Minister said?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u131	I give you the floor for a minute, because we need to continue the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, your honesty really touches me. You have indeed reduced the red loans to the banks' balance sheets, as you have said. You did take steps not to increase red loans again in the banks' balance sheets. In fact, you said that the institutions also pointed out that government interventions had the effect of not increasing red loans. But you did, too, admit that private debt is increasing. I asked you specific questions: tell us on the extrajudicial platform what results do we have to date? We didn't get any answers. At a time when due and private debt is growing, it cannot be possible, Mr President, that the Greek Minister for Finance comes here and celebrates why red loans are falling on the banks' balance sheets, and indeed - and I am finishing with this - to relate this reduction to a credit expansion when I asked him in particular, with evidence, what has been done in the past 12 months since the Responsibility Observatory was established and we have not received any response. So loans to the banks are being reduced, neither do companies benefit because they have no credit expansion nor do the citizens, who see their debt growing. I do not think that this is a reason to feel satisfied with a government that, as Mr Stagioras said, is, I am sure, in favour of public interest and citizens.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u133	Good. Thank you. Minister, do you want a minute to answer? Enough time? Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleagues, many colleagues have asked - apart from the core of the bill - a lot of questions about many different issues. I tried as much as I could in a coherent way to place myself in the most important of them. You have and you repeat what I want to talk about and I will therefore call for the Committee on Economic Affairs to be convened as soon as possible in the presence of the banking system to discuss the question of liquidity once again.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u135	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We continue the list of speakers. Mr. Paschalides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u136	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I should like to begin by congratulating you on your efforts with your staff. The bill under discussion is the result of a multi-month and very serious work launched by the Legal Council of State itself with a view to a modern and innovative Legal Council, with a strong role that includes the reform of its functioning structure, its digital transformation and the change of philosophy, in order to be close to the administration, its citizens, but also its staff friendly. After nearly twenty years of the adoption of Law 3086/2002, ‘Association of the Law Council of the State and a situation of its Officers and officials’ and Presidential Decree 238/2003, there are now a number of structural changes that govern the functioning of this principle which will contribute to its faster and more efficient operation and to the provision of a high level of specialised services to the public and other bodies it represents. We are all aware of the painful work carried out by the officials of the Legal Council of the State, who are present at all national courts, administrative, political, criminal, Court of Auditors, European Union courts, the European Court of Human Rights and international referees. In addition, they consult and resolve extrajudicial and compromise disputes between public and private individuals every year, handling over fifty thousand civil court cases and many other bodies that are different throughout Greece. The current bill, therefore, with digital transformation, restructuring and modernisation of its structure and operation as key priorities and simplifying the procedures of the Law Council of the State will solve years of problems and contribute to the rapid administration of justice and the enforcement of court rulings towards a better service of the public interest. By analyzing the individual provisions, I would like to refer in particular to Article 16 on the basis of which eight thematic configurations are created by areas of law, on the basis of the uniform and overall handling of similar cases, which will result in the specialisation of the functions of the Legal Council of State, but also in a uniform way of dealing with cases. Let us not forget that in this way of organising a considerable amount of staff and resources are being saved. Moreover, in the framework of the uninterrupted functioning of the Law Council of the State, a tender notice every two years is now provided for in order to fill vacant organic judicial posts instead of the competition which is opened at any time by a ministerial decision. The notice will be issued by a decision of the President of the Authority, which will be published by the end of November each year in the Official Journal of the Government and published on its website. Thus, this new provision will allow the Legal Council of the State to operate uninterruptedly without vacant organic positions. It is also worth noting that the status of disciplinary penalties that may be imposed on the officials of the Legal Council of the State is stricted and the inspection system of its officials is improved by setting up an independent inspection office. In addition, evaluation criteria are redefined in order to comply with the increased modern requirements and the quality of work that a senior public operator has to provide. I would also like to emphasise the extension and upgrading of the use of the integrated information system and to mention that the extensive digital transformation through the intangible creation and electronic movement of documents and case files both within the environment of the Legal Council of State and with regard to other public bodies, as well as the citizens who trade with the Legal Council, will, on the one hand, exploit the high scientific training of its officials and, on the other, the advantages offered by technology. In addition, the arrangements for holding the meetings of the Colleges of the Legal Council of the State - plenary sessions, sections, etc. - by teleconferences and other electronic means, as well as the provision of an operational mandate for handling cases of the Presidents of the Legal Council of State, are part of the work of the Council in a more flexible, modern and effective manner, with the aim of providing even higher quality legal services to the public and to the dozens of other bodies, independent authorities, legal persons governed by public law, HEIs, etc., whose legal support is acting. In closing my speech, I would like to stress that this bill aims to upgrade and harmonise the services of the State Law Council to modern challenges, so that it can continue the successful course of about a century and a half. Its structure, function is upgraded, its digital transformation - which has already started a long time ago - is strengthened and its philosophy is now more democratic and more effective than the better defence of the public interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u137	The reason is now the Deputy Minister of Digital Governance to refer to an amendment from his Ministry for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u138	Mr President, in Amendment No 1073 and in Amendment No 172 I shall refer to two articles, one and the tenth. In the first article, ladies and gentlemen, there is a description of the procedure to be followed in the announcement that has been made, in the measures to encourage and reward young people between 15 and 17 years old, who have chosen to be vaccinated by 31 December 2021, a free package of 50 GB data is available to meet the needs our youth has in training, entertainment, access, information. The activation of this package shall be valid from the day it takes place and for five months, and this has been corrected in paragraph 5 of Article 1. For five months from the moment it is activated, it will remain possible for each new to exploit this free package. I have to say this: The freedom pass which we have introduced has been established by the Greek Parliament for the young eighteen to twenty-four years. It has really created intense mobility among young people. Over 50% of our three hundred and eighty-three thousand young people have already been vaccinated, and the specific, targeted services that were provided free of charge to stimulate tourism and culture have already been allocated EUR 23,000, 000, and of course, because it has been heard that in this way, with this free package of data, we are trying to deceive some people, to recall the third cycle that runs the digital care programme, with which we are able to many, many, hundreds of thousands of Greeks - already, eighty-five, five thousand of them - have already been approved - to obtain mechanic equipment, in order to have better access to education, entertainment and what is needed. In other words, this amendment is an additional act to encourage our young people to be vaccinated and rewarded by those who have already been vaccinated. Article 10, Mr President, extends until 31 December 2021 the validity of Article 14 of the Act of Legislative Action from 11 to 3-2020 in relation to the award of public contracts, so that the Ministry of Digital Governance is able to do the work required for the provision of distance services to the citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We will now give the floor to Mrs Nadia Giannakopoulou from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u140	On the amendment, Mr President, may I ask the Minister something before leaving?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u141	Yes, of course. I didn't see you. Ms. Giannakopoulou, wait a minute. Mrs. Eleftheriadou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u142	Mr Minister, first of all, I would like to make a general comment. We are once again seeing a one-off provision for young people, which is an attempt to buy out, as was the case with the voucher of EUR 150. I have a question: the platform can be seen to make it a private. Is there going to be a direct assignment to a private person? As far as we are concerned, from what we have seen and from what I have discussed with the relevant sectoral and scientific partners, it is a simple platform which the engineers of the public body of the National Research and Technology Network could do. We have three hundred engineers, and they could work on it too. So I would like to ask if she will be made private on this platform or the Greek state. And because you said that young people need information, entertainment and learning various things online, yes, they need it all, but not for freemos and for gigabyte of 20 euros. This is essentially the gift you give young people, if they are vaccinated, worth 20 euros. And to say it more simply, four movies to download have finished the gigabyte with which you are trying to buy them. But most of all, I want you to tell me who's going to do the platform.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u143	Good. I don't think there's any other question. Mr. Georgioda, would you like to answer now?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u144	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u145	Mr. Georgios has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u146	Mr President, of course everyone understands that it is contradictory, on the one hand, that some people are talking about attempting to buy out youth, which I think is, above all, insulting our own young people and, on the other hand, talking about the incomplete amount that is, in the end, the particular supply. This provision free of charge to young people in need who will take advantage of it - it is certain - is indeed a measure of encouragement - has never been concealed by the government - and a measure of rewarding the hundreds of two thousand young people already vaccinated. At the age of 15 to seventeen they have already been vaccinated or programmed their vaccination of two thousand young people. In relation to the creation of the platform, the "Information Society", the one-person S.A. It is the responsibility of the Commission to monitor this project and, of course, when this work goes ahead - I do not know how it will go - there will be what is necessary to make public. However, the 'Information Society' is the one responsible for the project. The necessary ministerial decision on the details of the progress of this project will also be followed and, of course, everything will be made public.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u147	Good. Mrs. Yannakopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u148	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the draft law on the Statute of the Legal Council of the State and the status of its officials and servants. The position of the Change Movement was formulated thoroughly and adequately by both our rapporteur, Mr Scandalidis, and the Parliamentary Representative, Mr Katrin, and, of course, I think it is clear that in any modernisation of the legislation that has to do with the Legal Council of the State the Change Movement is drafted, it is positive with the individual objections and differences, as expressed by our rapporteur. I would, however, like to say a few words on a very serious matter which concerns the very functioning of the Council of State. Mr Stagioras, the Minister responsible, is currently not making us the honour of being in the cabinet. I think Mr Staikoras should be here, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u149	It's been here since morning.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u150	This issue has to do with a topical question I had tabled last March, namely on 5 March, and it has to do with the selective filling of loopholes in the Legal Council of State. I hope he's on television at all, or you'll take it from him, Mr. Undersecretary. I have listened very carefully to Mr Stakoura's positions in the committees responsible for discussing this draft law. You will allow me to tell you that the Minister has mentioned a number of major inaccuracies in his attempt to justify the - literally - hostile attitude towards the undetermined successors of the competition of the Legal Council of State which took place in 2019. I shall speak with very specific and very detailed information, which is why I insist that Mr Stakoras be here at the moment in order to give concrete answers. Irregularity first. The Minister said that the successful table lasted almost two years, and in fact he withdrew by Law No.4714/2020, which was subsequently passed on to his own legislative initiative the validity of the successful table, and thus ended in September 2020 instead of April 2021, as it was set to end, according to his earlier own CSR. It was Mr. Stakoura's FDA which spoke for two years, which he signed in March 2020. In order to restore the truth, it must be said that this table of successes lasted in total only one year and five months instead of a total of two years, a year of initial power and a year of extension, as it should have lasted in accordance with the previous CSR, which - I repeat - Mr Stagioras himself signed. Let the Minister stop presenting the short duration of this table as something abnormal or something provocative to the successors. And in order for us to have a comparison measure, I would like to mention that the previous table of successors of the 2014 Law Council, Minister, do you know how long it lasted? It lasted for three years, until all sixty three successful ones were absorbed, appointed by the end of 2016. Do you want me to remind you of something? Mr Stavros obviously remembers it, and that is why he is avoiding it and is not in this Chamber at the moment. Do you know who signed this three-year period? But who else? Mr. Stagiras, when he was Minister at the time, responsible State Secretary for Finance to the government of Antonis Samaras. Inaccurate second. The Minister claimed that it is legal and moral to open a new tender instead of appointing the undetermined successors of the 2019 competition, implying - and this is unthinkable - that their fair request is - allegedly - immoral. I would like to remind you again, Mr. Secretary, that in order to convey to Mr. Stoura, who has obviously selective memory, in addition to all other cases of prolongation of a successful table, was Mr. Stavros himself in December 2010 as a member of the PASOK-Government Officer and Minister Haris Kastanides when he objected to parliamentary control by submitting reports to the then Minister of Justice in order to absorb all the undetermined successors of the competition for the recruitment of judicial officers. In fact, the Minister strongly supported their request for the successful table to remain in force and for future coverage of future new posts, until the absorption of all eighty-five undetermined successful ones. It would be very useful when the Minister comes - because at some point he will come - to answer what made him change his mind and do exactly the opposite. So instead of that, today, he stubbornly refuses to cover even the existing vacancy positions. Because we are talking about existing vacant posts right now on the Legal Council of the State. In fact, in order to achieve its objective, namely to keep the existing positions for the next competition vacant, he did not hesitate to do the unthinkable, that is to say to withdraw the validity of the table that he had previously extended a few months earlier. I wonder what he might have interceeded. Has it intervened - I say, Minister - to appoint some chosen successors among the fourteen who have appointed selectively as long as the table has been extended, that is, until 31 September 2020? It would be a good thing if the Minister responded to that as soon as he arrived. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm going to need your grace, Mr. President. Thank you very much. Inaccurate third. The Minister said that he had to limit the validity of the 2019 successful table, because the former President of the State Law Council, Mr Halkias, in his letter of June 2020, informed him that in any case fourteen more successful ones would be appointed, as he did, then - supposedly - there would be no other vacant posts at the State Law Council until April 2021 and therefore there would be no need to apply the table until its planned termination. In other words, the Minister presented himself as - supposedly - consistent with the recommendations of the Head of State's Legal Council. What I would like to say to the House of Greeks is that Mr Stakoras - and it is evident from his absence at the moment - deliberately from Parliament the document sent to him by the former President of the Legal Council of State, Mr Halkias on 17 September 2020, with which he officially informed him that there were eleven additional vacant posts at the Legal Council of State at that time. In fact, the President was recommended to extend for another three months in order to fill the eleven vacant posts from the successful ones in the table before it expires. On this recommendation, he never officially replied to the then President of the Legal Council of the State and the request for extension remained unanswered, with the result that there were no undetermined equals being successful. In fact, he had the courage to iron out for me in the debate on the current question last March in Parliament, saying that the only relevant report - I read from the Minutes - presented by Mr Halkias is that of June 2020 on the fourteen additional recruitments, consciously concealing from the Greek Parliament that that proposal of June was revoked by a new letter submitted by the former President of the Legal Council of State on 17 September, naively believing that he would be kept secret. But no hiding place under the sun. These are very serious things that you are calling on to give - because I speak specifically - concrete answers and do not hide, as Mr Stagioras is currently hiding.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u151	Complete, Mrs. Giannakopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u152	I am closing and thank you very much, Mr President. I'm closing up with three questions for which I'm asking for specific answers. Why have you not accepted Mr Halkidiki's newest suggestion in September 2020 for even a short extension so that it does not fall short of gaps - why is it currently falling short - for two years, the Legal Council of State, while on the contrary you are not prepared to accept the current President, Mrs Veloni? Question 2, why didn't you answer the 11 parliamentary questions - not my question - of the Members of the Co-Population, of the New Democracy, who called you incessantly and repeatedly to appoint the undetermined successors of the year 2019? And I close with the third question: What political purposes, Mr Ministers, are they served by the conscious subjugation of the Legal Council of the State which makes it difficult to defend the public interest effectively? I'm asking you specific questions. We wait and wait for specific answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u153	We shall give the floor to the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Brutsi. After Mr. Vroutsis will follow Mr. Konstantinides from New Democracy, Mr. Giolas from SYRIZA, Mr. Hetas Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution. After Mr. Hetas Mr. Liupis and after Mr. Liupis Mr. Karathanasopoulos, Parliamentary Representative of the Communist Party of Greece. Mr. Brutsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u154	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Tsakalotos and his distinguished colleague from SYRIZA, who, in his position, opened up a number of issues that I consider necessary to answer. These are issues that have to do with the echo of the Thessaloniki International Exhibition. It happens today that the debate is taking place when the report on Parliament's budget was presented a few hours ago. It is a moment through which we can record and highlight the elements that this report shows for our national economy, ladies and gentlemen. The debate that is currently taking place at the heart of the bill was very much shifted from SYRIZA to the issue concerning the income available and who is in favour of or against workers. Or rather who is more and who sees the interests of the workers. I would like to remind you of something that has to do with the ideological reference of the New Democracy. In the worthy map of the New Democracy, our political body, ladies and gentlemen, the word man at the heart is in the sense that this party from its creation so far is fighting, fighting, trying and developing for the well-being of people. How it will improve their standard of living. Two words characterize this commendable system of the New Democracy:'social liberalism'. In the context of this dual effort of social liberalism, we are, on the one hand, trying to improve the level of people's lives, to be alongside the weak and, on the other hand, using the tools provided by the free economy, to create wealth so that we can strengthen human beings. Our cause is the man, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, and not the profit, as you say. Profit is the tool through which we can improve people's lives. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of Parliament, Mr. Epostolos ABDELAS takes over]] On this basis, therefore, I would like to mention a few elements which are also updated today by the report on Parliament's budget. On behalf of SYRIZA, Mr Tryphoon Alexiadis - he was a second colleague - gave particular weight to the issue of income available. So I say that if anyone on the question of wage earners over the last few years of the budgetary difficulty that our country has experienced, he has practically supported the workers - without reducing your intention or your disposition - in terms of economy that was New Democracy. This New Democracy party and the period of Antonis Samaras and today with Kyriakos Mitsotakis, with my friend Christos Staikoras as Minister of Finance, did what they had to do and continue to improve the level of employees. I turn around a little bit of time because it has a value to illuminate a period in which you are often referred to. It's about the level of unemployment. The highest point of unemployment in our country was presented in July 2013 with 27.9%. I was Minister of Government Antony Samara. Was it something that was born that day? Oh, no. It was the result of the fiscal adjustment and the huge recession in our country. It was the peak of unemployment. What measures have we taken at that time as the government of Antonis Samaras, the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Finance together? I am not talking about the development of the Ministry of Finance. I am referring to the agenda for the Ministry of Labour. Firstly, because at that time in the recording of undeclared work the figure of 42.3% was unthinkable and unbelievable, for the first time the fine Bruce, as they describe it, was imposed at EUR 10 500. There is until today. All the governments and all the ministers kept it from there. The fine of EUR 10 500 has been imposed since the informal economy in the official economy of seventy thousand jobs. They were created that day, but it wasn't real. Due to the fine they passed through the informal economy and were captured in the ‘ERGANI’. As of July 2013, unemployment began to decline and continued to fall until SYRIZA took over. That's what you're hiding. You are only standing at 27.9% that "with our policies we have reached it" and "no, it was the country's budgetary adjustment, the very difficult period". In January 2015, when you became government, unemployment fell to 27% and continued to decline due to the country's fiscal adjustment. By July 2019, when you lost the election, unemployment had fallen to 17.3%. Today, with the figures of the Ministry of Finance, ELSTAT, which is the only institutional authority that counts unemployment, but also the report of the House, unemployment has fallen by 3.1 points: 14.2%. What does that mean? That all these screams of the previous period, the criticism you have heard that unemployment will be launched once we leave the pandemic and stop the protection measures for jobs, the suspension of contracts of employment we have done, they fall into the void. Unemployment continues to decline and will continue to decline in the future. Second element. How did we strengthen the income of the workers? Apart from protecting the rights and reducing undeclared work, ladies and gentlemen, with the 'ERGANI', we have made a reduction in insurance contributions. Our country's insurance contributions from 2012 until today have been reduced by 10 percentage points. Ten percentage points at the level of employee insurance contributions and employers are very large to boost the income of workers. It was six units in the period 2012-2014, four units today in the period 2019-2021. Mr. Staruras made a description. We have shown here, from a step of the House, and in the past how much the income of workers improves by reducing insurance contributions. At the same time as the recent working draft was passed on to the "ERGAN II". It was the creation of the Ministry of Labour. We were well prepared. It is a new environment of "ERGANIS" more improved so that it still safeguards this new element, which has emerged, the implied work. The working time of the workers is now fully recorded when the Ministry of Labour is also working in this direction. Minimum wage. I remind you of the story that the minimum wage was 750 euros. In February 2012, before the government of Antonis Samaras, with the Act of Ministerial Council 16, it was reduced to EUR 586. There has been a PASOK day or Papademu, not a Samara government. Then there were objections, objections, but unfortunately the imposition of the reduced minimum wage was a necessary evil that had to be done because this was now the framework of our country's agreement. What happened in the course of the years? In 2013 with Law 4172/2013 we have created a new environment, a new legislative framework through which the minimum wage can be increased, leaving what was in existence in the past. In other words, an agreement has been reached within, except in some cases. Now the new law, L.4172/2013 has a specific framework that is equivalent to the figures given by the five most important and reliable economic operators in the country to see the resistance of the economy to the increase in the minimum wage. In January 2019, the previous SYRIZA government increased the minimum wage of 10%. The minimum wage went to 650 euros. This increase was not the result of an arbitrary approach taken by the government. It was based on Law 4172/2013. Here too, Minister, I would like to add the following: there have been voices at the time when they said that, with the increase in the minimum wage, unemployment will increase and the decline in unemployment will be halted. This was not because the model of what was recommended by trustworthy institutions was followed. Today we are faced with the challenge of reassessing the minimum wage. I am one of those who believe that the minimum wage should be raised and matched, and this will also be the institution's recommendation with the brave and great increase in our country's GDP of more than 16% for 2021. Workers need to improve their income through a further increase in the minimum wage beyond 2% already announced by the government. Is that all? Oh, no. VAT was reduced extensively in first-demand goods, reduced HPAI, reduced the import tax from 22% to 9%, and also reduced the advance payment for natural persons. All of this forms a strengthening environment for the enhancement of income. In terms of increasing the minimum wage, what I would like to add is that, as proved in 2019, the decline in unemployment did not stop. I am sure that if the new increase in the minimum wage is coordinated on the basis of the strength of our economy that it has now, we have nothing to fear in the divergence of unemployment, which will continue to take place, while at the same time improving the income of workers. Another element highlighted in the report by the House, ladies and gentlemen, which highlights it very high and emphatically, is the reduction in outstanding pensions. From seventy-seven thousand four hundred forty-five at the end of the second quarter of 2020, it was reduced to thirty thousand five hundred and ten main pensions. Here I want to say two things that the House deserves to know. The reduction of the outstanding pensions is the result of an organisational reconstruction which took place in the new e-ECA established in February 2020 with the new organisational environment. As I have said, e-ECA will be the head of the public administration spear at the end of 2022. The demand for the country's largest organisation to become automated on the same day the most modern in Greece cannot be done. At the end of 2022, however, at the speed it had developed and with its organisational reconstruction, we will certainly all be proud of the e-ECA. The second point concerns the number of outstanding pensions. The paradox is that you see the number of outstanding pensions recorded. That's what we didn't have. This is something we should have heard in this House and if the Minister wanted to answer it. I asked Mrs Ahcioglu on several occasions in 2019 because I had focused there on the lies that were being told and did not say what the number of outstanding pensions is. Now every Member and society have it on a monthly basis. Through the digital system "ATLAS" the number of outstanding pensions is automatically published and the whole society can know what the outstanding pensions are. It is a step forward and modernisation for our country's political system and for our own society and our insurance system. And I close with the issue of the bill, which is particularly important, because it is still a great reform on the part of the Ministry of Finance and on the part of the government. I would like to stress that we are now inviting ourselves to vote in favour of a very important reform. After twenty years, the cycle of the Legal Council of State has been closed and the need to reform it has been urgent as ever, and indeed this bill is a product of the officials of the Legal Council of State. It is also a coordinated, studied and well-designed political choice of reform and reconstituting the state, structures and agencies so that at all levels we have upgraded, simplified and operational procedures. We all know the crucial and important role of the Legislative Council in the State, and therefore we must all agree that it is necessary that those who serve in it have those useful tools that will help ensure that they can respond to the current challenges and, above all, be consistent with their era. That's what the draft law does today. So I invite you all to such a bill, which is a product of great consultation, in which the Minister of Finance, Mr Staikoras, has brought too many changes to the basis, and which have been heard and which has been given plenty of time in the public consultation, to vote and to stand up for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u155	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u156	Mr President, I would like to speak for a moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u157	We're listening, Mr. Catarini.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u158	I understand Mr. Brutsi's "anti-Society" which is such and which led him not to remember that in 2012, the minimum wage in mid-memorandum was reduced, compared the PASOK with the New Democracy and its counterparts now, Mr. Georgiadis and Mr. Voridis by members of the Ministerial Council. To understand this, but the nerve to talk about lowering the minimum wage when for a year and a half as Minister has done nothing to increase the minimum wage is incomprehensible. And as far as I am concerned, Mr Brutsi, since you have made the Minister for Labour, let me tell you the following. You've been very careful to talk about the e-mail. You didn't tell us, however, if the FBI has moved on to accelerating pensions. Because we are learning that all that has been done is a telephone centre which has cost tens of millions of euros and which provides information, without any improvement in the awarding of pensions. So when we talk about improving the pension system, we will not split into an EVA and an EVA because EVA is one, the government is one and it will apologise for the whole of inaction so far in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u159	Thank you, Mr. Katrin.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u160	Mr President, I would like to speak, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u161	Here you go, Mr. Brutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u162	Mr President, I have listened to Mr Katrin and I wonder what he is ignoring about all these things that he has often as a Parliamentary representative and as rapporteur for the Change Movement. Because that means, completely ignorant, Mr Katrin. You're talking about the minimum wage. You were a government headed by Mr. Papademos in February 2012. The minimum wage was reduced and he did not blame. It was the country in a difficult time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u163	So be careful because I'm very careful when...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u164	Please, no dialogue. He didn't interrupt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u165	I'm very careful. Reducing the minimum wage doesn't mean you wanted it. You didn't want to. Of course you didn't want it. It was, however, the need to adjust the country's budget and we all had to adapt to that need. So be careful and accurate. If you don't know any facts, let them know. And SYRIZA, who sits on your right had promised 750 euros election program on January 1, 2015. No one could raise the minimum wage. I'm not the Minister of Government, Samara. I created the new law, however, which now represented the minimum wage and which the law said would abolish the SYRIZA government, Law 4172/2013. In fact, he left the Chamber, while officially SYRIZA applauded and said it was the best law. Why is it good law? Because it now represents an increase in the minimum wage, Mr President, in relation to the strength of the economy. And, indeed, SYRIZA was able - it had to - since 2017, but now this is part of the past - on 1 January 2019 to raise the minimum wage on the basis of this law. And now the increase to be made by this law will be made, because there is endurance and capacity in our national economy. So, Mr. Katrin, be careful. You are not more sensitive than former PASOK, today Change Movement or tomorrow as you will be called. We have the same sensitivity, but I have shown that the increase in wage earners' income was done in practice with the protection of their working rights, with the 'ERGANI', with this great innovative tool that Cyprus is currently inaugurating, which has taken from Greece and which will also take other countries, with the reduction of insurance contributions that you do not vote against and you are against, with the reduction of taxes, HISPIA, by reducing VAT, by reducing the import tax rate. They increase the income of the workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u166	Mr President, I would like the floor for a moment because he has been inaccurate.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u167	Mr. Catarini, you have the right, but please don't go too far.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u168	I have heard, Mr Colleague, very carefully, your speech and you said that PASOK has reduced the minimum wage. In your dentistry you were more careful, I must confess. That's a reality. Now, for the rest you celebrate, for the achievements of the government and what you have done up to now and what you have done, this will be decided on the way, Mr President. But you did not hide again - and I am sorry - your anti-pascal vigilance in the way in which you spoke gratuitously about my political space. We were PASOK, we're PASOK, and we're gonna be PASOK. This may bother you personally, but it does not affect anything in the political area in which I belong, and I will be proud, Mr President. If you want to add something to PASOK or KINAL or as it is said tomorrow, find some other way to speak, one way I would say more decent, which I am sure is in line with your long-term presence here.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u169	Thank you, Mr. Catherine. I have to tell the House that the Standing Committee on Production and Trade is tabling its reports on the draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment: A. JUDGMENTS OF THE COURT OF JUSTICE AND THE COURT OF FIRST INSTANCE OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES ‘Preparation of the Cooperation Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Kingdom of Morocco in the field of scientific and technological research’, and B. Other: ‘Creating the ELIXIR Consortium Agreement establishing the European Biodiversity Research Infrastructure in the field of ELIXIR bioscience’. Mr Constantinidis Efstathos is now called to Stepma by New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u170	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I do not want - concisely - to challenge the draft law on the modernisation of the Statute of the Legal Council of the State which is a necessary and important legislative intervention by the Ministry of Finance. But how, after so many years of crisis, recession and marginalisation, do not anyone mention the recent economic achievements re-establishing it internationally? In fact, when the Memorandum of Understanding has succeeded a sanitary adventure, the painful consequences of which the whole planet continues to exist. Yet, from the edge of the cliff, Greece has become one of the first countries in the Eurozone that manages to return to the pandemic of GDP since the middle of this year. Greece manages to be one of the first countries to submit a comprehensive recovery plan to the recovery fund for the next day, to be one of the first countries in development, and thus from an example to avoid an example being made. And while every day, the international houses are revising the course of the Greek economy, from the 85th PPC, Mr. Tsipras had only to tell us that they are "welcome the growth rates". These atrocious, sinusic - one would say rhythms, more than 16% for the second quarter and according to house estimates of 6%, 7% more and 8% for the entire 2021. They are described as "welcome" as being a symptomatic or accidental phenomenon. However, it is not accidental and symptomatic the expression used by Mr Tsipras. Since he can no longer question the sizes, he tries to disconnect them from their generics because, according to the above assessments, it is the great aid that Greece has achieved from the Recovery Fund, the support measures implemented in the country during the pandemic and, of course, the reforms that the government carried out during the same period and which all together compose the fuel mix, which gives this strong impetus to development. And not only does the President of Officer Mitsotakis do this in order to undermine the government's work but also to hide the enormous failures and catastrophic criticisms of his party over the past period, when he underestimated the role of Mr.Mitsotakis in European decisions to deal with the consequences of the pandemic, when he questioned the correctness and effectiveness of the measures to support and relaunch the activity taken by the current government, when he predicted the failure of Greek tourism this summer, when shortly before the vote on the medium-term framework 2022-2025, he met the goals for the development set by the glorious Minister of Finance - as proved to be a slim one - to which - in order not to forget - last year you submitted, ladies and gentlemen, of the SYRIZA, a motion of confidence. Today, that motion of censure returns to SYRIZA and to his President, who, for many years, have proved unreliable. How do you really expect citizens to trust you when you are not even able to assess and evaluate policies that are being applied, so that you will be misled out on all your predictions? It is not, therefore, legal about the country's progress. It is the result of a coherent plan for the development of a development environment, the fundamental elements of which are the reform and modernisation of the public and its institutions, in particular those that have a neuro-algal role in the functioning of its services. Such is the role of the Legal Council of the State, which is a higher authority with the task of judicial support and representation of the public, the recognition of claims against it or the compromise in disputes with it and the legal support of its bodies, with its various local offices. Furthermore, the purpose of the draft law is to define the responsibilities of the Board of Law and the general Staff of the State, as well as to regulate the general Staff Regulations of its officials and administrative staff. Twenty years after Law 3086/2002 and the relevant Law 238/2003 it becomes necessary to redesign and simplify and accelerate the procedures of the Law Council of the State. There is therefore a reform of the responsibilities, structure and composition of the authority, but also of the service situation and the disciplinary responsibility of its officials and staff. The changes aim at upgrading legal services to the public and to its bodies, limiting bureaucracy, digital transformation, and ultimately strengthening and best performing its highly trained human resources. The new regulations add new powers, such as the processing of an arbitration clause before it is concluded, participation in legislative committees or in the adoption of regulatory provisions and decisions. Simplify and accelerate the way cases are handled, in particular by setting up the eight thematic configurations to deal with and manage single and comprehensive groups of judicial or extrajudicial cases. Critical and inappropriate procedures are avoided to delay their liquidation. Digital upgrading shall be strengthened by setting up a new e-government address and increasing the number of sections, as well as data protection with the establishment of a relevant self-employed office. Furthermore, a regular - every two years - a tender notice for filling in empty organic posts is provided for. The evaluation procedures shall be adjusted. It simplifies and tightens up disciplinary law in line with the relevant case-law of the Council of State. It is planned to draw up an annual report on the recording and evaluation of the work of the Legal Council of State. In addition, authorisations shall be provided for the regulation of individual issues and the redesignability of the service units and the transitional provisions and final provisions relating to the mobility of officials shall be laid down. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, we can certainly say that the draft law is a legislature for the structural, organisational and operational upgrading of the Legal Council of the State that strengthens its staff with modern digital tools and upgrades the level of its services and therefore we are voting in favour of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u171	Thank you, Mr. Constantinidis. Mr.Giolas Ioannis is called in Stepma by SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance and Mr. Hetas is prepared from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u172	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with the draft legislation under discussion, there is an attempt to reform the organisation of the law-making board of the State, in order to achieve it when proposing modernisation, flexibility, and to speed up the work with provisions to do so, but also with a number of provisions which do not serve this purpose, so we cannot take a positive stance on them and I will be further suggesting. In particular, Article 4(4) provides the possibility for the president of the PWN to entrust the defence of civil servants, independent authorities and legal persons governed by public law whose legal support belongs to the PWN, to the criminal courts and provided that four express and restrictive conditions are met. We can understand the President's discretion because of the many similar cases, the charges and the hard work done by the PWN officials who will also be charged with such cases, i.e. criminals. We cannot, however, justify or accept the discretionary approval of the relevant Minister. Either the conditions are met and this is done, in fact, under the terms of the provision, or we are dealing with a personally selective tactic of the political body, which neither explains nor accounts for its absolute discretion, an act which may undermine the service and favor of certain chosen ones. Secondly, the provision of Article 9 which prohibits for some vague reasons of overriding public interest the opinion of a minority is vaguely unacceptable. It is something that is never known in legal proceedings and in legal order and practice. In fact, overcoming perhaps and arbitrary interference is being magnified by a provision which even allows for the modification of practices provided that this is done only for the benefit of the public and the public authorities. Let me remind you here of what was said by Mrs Panopoulou, who, as President-in-Office, expressed the view of the Union of members of the PSF? We are still insisting on this regulation. We consider that the opinions of a quasi-judicial body which has joined the judiciary in accordance with the Constitution and which produces legal consequences on the grounds of the reasons and the justification for the opinions and the existence of a minority are key and necessary and do not enter a balance from what percentage and above it will be silenced or more appropriate to give a minority opinion, because we have heard about the three quarters. Overpowered by the president of the PCC. Under Article 5(5), the president of the PWN may chair any of the sections in which, as a rule and by express provision, he shall chair a Vice-Chairman. The President therefore chooses and presides everywhere and always, even though the power to carry out the President's duties has been delegated to a Vice-President entirely powerless and indiscriminately selects cases and presides himself. Article 29(5) by decision of the President is hereby authorised to award opinions to Greek or foreign experts, by way of derogation from any general or special provision. Could a small and flexible body of three Vice-Presidents not be competent and decide as a broader collective and democratic body on this? Rule 32, here again will shine the star of one single and absolute judge, I mean the President. Refers to this article in arbitration cases, which, as indicated in the same provision, relate to cases with usually high economic objects, and the need to entrust them to specialised lawyers or lawyers. And here it is up to the President's exclusive decision. Nor has there been a sensitivity here to defining a small and flexible instrument of three or five members with the Vice-Presidents and the President, so as to ensure a good witness from outside. Article 59(3). Respect for the individual operational files is again made by the chairperson. And while paragraph 1 is clearly deleted which elements, i.e. the professional development of the employee, are included in that file, i.e. the President, may enrich them with other undetermined elements that he will bring in. Where is knowledge and where? What more does this always-familiar president know? This is an action that reveals secret, uncontrolled and non-obligated rules of absolute and uncontrolled authority. Article 21. While so much fuss and overturns will occur with the merger of the state's judicial offices, paragraph 6 comes in, where, on the recommendation of the President of the PWN again by the Minister's decision, what do we want them to do with the laws that are being passed? - to establish, merge and repeal judicial offices. Fourthly, on the basis of Article 21 of the alleged merger of twenty-nine existing legal offices throughout the territory of the PWN. It was recorded in the committee's debate at the earliest, as the President of the Union stated, the pursuit of a stop to the operation of the majority of the offices after a year was, of course, extended with the amendment that the Minister has put forward, without knowledge of whether or not the simplification and acceleration of the operation of these units will occur. The accumulated experience and knowledge of officials and officials, the existence of a rich archive, the specialization with the cognitive and scientific objects, as well as the closeness and locality of these officials. Instead, the system of assigning cases is chosen in advance on a case-by-case basis or with a certain period of time to lawyers, who, of course, all know that they have to deal with their own business cases, move and be paid at costs that have not been or have not been fully calculated to create and any measure of comparison of benefits or damage. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, please, I would like your tolerance for a minute. These are issues that need to be dealt with in our opinion when all the conditions are met, and after all the needs have been taken into account and covered, for example, by the existence of judicial offices in towns based in court, but they are not the capital regions, such as Chania, Kalamata, Nafplio, Kavala, Agrinio, as well as the specificity of islandity and its resulting needs. Finally, another major dissent focuses on compromise resolution with the possibility that Article 27(1) may be applied. Since the judicial conviction based on full evidence is the only one that provides evidence and guarantees of credibility, transparency and fairness, and the PWN Members' Union, we call for the self-evident, to be able to resolve the dispute where, for the matter in question alone, there is a case-law in this regard and this has been judged by irrevocable court ruling. Nothing more but nothing less. Compatibilitys, remuneration of claims and other claims of individuals only on the basis of a judicial and judicial judgement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u173	Thank you, Mr Giola. Mr Konstantinos Hetas, Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution, is called at Stepma. I shall then give the floor to Mr Athanasio Ljupi. Here, Mr. Heta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u174	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'd like Mr. Brutsis to be here, really, really enjoying what he said. He said so much about "ITLA". I don't know if SYRIZA saw the Mitsotakis-Tsipras tie in the presentation of the PTH, this is where we have a clear winner. "ATLAS" - Superman, note 2. Hatzidakis made him a "ATLA". And since "ATLAS" was so good, why did Hatzidakis come as a superman to change everything, Mr. Brutsi? We're going crazy now. We also enjoyed this ideological dip of Mr Brutsi in the past to scaffold and locate the birthplace of the New Democracy. To remind Mr Brutsi, apart from all the other important ones, that the state is constantly talking about scaffolding, immigrants and all that - and something else. The New Democracy, speaking of social liberalism, is the only party that has already refused to do so for the first time and abolished collective agreements. What else can this party do anymore? Have you abolished collective bargaining and are you talking about social liberalism? Is it possible, New Democracy? You did this. They're works and days of yours. You may not be a Minister now, but they are works by your government and your party. You also talked about producing wealth. Production of wealth with what, Mr. Brutsi, gentlemen of the New Democracy, Minister? With loan? Dogs and Starfleet said that, 41 billion. Lending. Nice production of wealth! He also said that unemployment decreased and celebrated. He's not here to answer me, to tell us. Come here, Mr. Brutsi, tell us the truth. In 2014, Greece, Minister, had GDP of 179 billion. I say it because he played with dates. In 2020, our country's GDP of ECU 165 billion. It's less. How is this possible to reduce unemployment when wages have fallen? However, we don't say that any progress will be made so that anything will be heard in here. This is in response to the Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy, because people have ears and they hear, as well as they see. Mr Minister, reading has been done here and today, not to say anything else. Once again we are trapped. The system, the Rules of Parliament, the beverage of some people lead to you bringing unrelated things to the amendments, so long as you pass them? The result? If a group does not know what to do, because we have, on the one hand, an EAW, which we both want to vote in favour of the relevant article on our defence industry, as we would have done in any case. That's how we wanted to do today, but in there you have the bankfoot once more. What does ODA and its support - which we want to vote on - have to do with the pill that the Treasury and the government want to give to the banks? Tell us a little bit. As far as ODA is concerned, our party at the very first time has said that we need to support such industries, upgrade our military factories, proceed with co-production agreements with friendly countries. We're the first to say that. But you, not only as a New Democracy, but as a PASOK and as a SYRIZA - in five years' time, as you have made - have allowed our defence industry to marvel and collapse. You have demanded the workforce at the same time. You practically blocked whatever work our defence industry had undertaken. And especially for EAB, we want to point out today - our language will still hairen - the telex radar that is its own construction. This can be used to identify and monitor drones, the new instrument and tool. Nothing, nothing! You are bringing this into line with the massage to the banks. Of course, law-abiding, cut, take care of the banks. Mr. Staruras confessed. Now I've seen the Minutes. The aim is to make the banks easier, alas! "Everyone's work and the nerd's cheese," says a proverb. That's it, everyone's work! And you'll make it easier for the banks. We know you want lisveris, good relationships with the banks. The 350 million loans are yours. You owe them to the banks, but you don't! And bring it along with EAB! That is the amendment. This is denounced by the Greek Solution. Once again, in a disgraceful way, you bring it in and you involve our defence industry, which we want to vote for, with your scars and your lisbish with the banks. Well, people need to know that disgrace! Let's go down. Contracts. That's a oxymomile. They are coming to Parliament contracts and they are coming up to 20 million euros, to see what contracts you are doing, to whom are they, what terms and conditions they have. On the other hand, but on the other hand, billions of euros go through that we do not even see and do it on your own deal. You guys would like to see each other. You do not inform the representatives of Greek citizens. You don't inform parties, you don't tell anyone. DEDEE, dust and legends, Egnatia and go by saying. They didn't come here. Let us know, not that we'd do something. You would have done yours again, but it is not possible that billions of dollars will not pass through Parliament and that all the rest will be passed. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I was just listening to them with the mouth open before. Makis Voridis dropped it on SYRIZA. Today SYRIZA tabled an amendment to cleaners, which, of course, was not accepted. We looked to see what that is. Twenty-five cleaners are, do not have the Greek nationality and asks SYRIZA to hire, i.e. to unlawful the state legally, i.e. to close the eyes to the fact that they do not have the right to be hired, but to hire them! But Voridis says he can't. How did you do it last year? So last year you did it in the New Democracy, so you were illegal. Um, they're illegal with no citizenship, they're trying to hire them. I'm sorry, how's that gonna happen? But last year you did. It is a mistake, therefore, that you have done so last year, that you are making a mistake. That's what we say. People see, hear and judge us. Now let's go further. Another amendment. We have said 'amendment' today. Amendment by the Ministry of Health. Mr. Plearis and Mr. Georgiodakis are here. Okay, can I tell you something now? It's like sharing with native mirrors, beads, "Come, good sir, take the vaccine, take 10MB, take two hours free speech, take a telecard, get something, get a radio gift"! Guys, these things don't happen. This is not how the health crisis is being tackled seriously. Don't you understand? I said it before with a lot of quotes. We're talking about extortion of young people, normal takeover, terrible! Here, he says, 50MB. But, with 10 euros, my dear, you get unlimited MB, you're on the internet and you surf as much as you want. With 10 euros, and you're going to convince the world, the new kids, plus the freckles? New special application on gov.gr. We do not know the cost, how the Greeks will pay for it, and the report by the General Accounting Office of the State - it is serious what we are saying - refers to the initial elements by the acceding parties. That's not enough. How many will we pay, who will pay, and how much will this new file cost? That's how you can't convince yourself. You want to convince? Repeat the outraged doctors yesterday to convince people to be vaccinated. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Make an antibody test. People are sick, having his antibodies, being able to move forward. Why does someone who's ill have to be vaccinated? The ESS shall be dissolved with ‘e’ and ‘yes’. You break it, but the NSA is falling apart. We were taken from the "Transition" Hospital and told that at the moment there is a surgical bed, one! Because three anaesthetics have gone out on a job suspension because they haven't been vaccinated. Don't you see that? MB, is that all? We really don't have words. And I will close very quickly, Mr President. You've got money for other things. On 15-9-2021, see where the money goes. Where's the money? From 9-8-2021 acknowledgment that the work of the fifth account of the project "Manufacture of services, structures and separate sites referred to in Article 8 in the islands of Samos, Kos, Lero". Pay, sucker Greek, the Metarakis agreements! Inaugurated in Samos the other day. He was alone like a cuckoo. The whole local society has turned its back on him. We pay 17,558.771 euros. We pay new closed structures, he says, but they'll be out from 8:00 in the morning to 8:00 in the evening. All of this to Samos. I'll file the decision in the Minutes. And Samos's C.T.A. from strangers so far. Come on, let's figure out who set the fire! Do we have two minutes to think, Mr. President? Think who might have set the fire? Are these serious things now? Is this the New Democracy, Mr. Brutsi, you were telling us about your ideological past? Are these the New Democracy payoffs? Is that what you have to tell the world today? What can I really say? Listen, 10 MB!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u175	Thank you, Mr. Heta. Mr Athanasios Ljupis from New Democracy is called to Stepma and then Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, Parliamentary Representative of the Communist Party of Greece, will speak to the Deputy Minister, Vesiropoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u176	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a draft law aimed at upgrading the functioning of the Council of State law, which plays an important role in the legal support of the public, legal persons governed by public law, the independent authorities and other public bodies. Its contribution to the general functioning of the public sector and to the effective defence of the interests of the public administration is important. This text makes improvements to the legal board after two decades after the implementation of Law 3086/2002. The functioning of the Law Council of the State needs modernization, flexibility and adaptation to modern needs, so that it can fulfil its purpose. The new provisions focus on improving regulations in relation to the structure and structure, the service situation and the disciplinary responsibility of its staff. It is a bill that has the support of the officials of the Legal Council, since his full administrative responsibility was in favour of the provisions we are debating today. It is a result of discussions and an exchange of views over a number of years to incorporate the comments of the officials of the Legal Council of the State and of the judiciary in general. The main objective of today's reform is the digital upgrade of the State's Legal Council to keep up with modern requirements and the general digital reform of the public. There are many important changes in this context. Firstly, the President's mandate is to deal with cases by digital means. Secondly, the electronic submission of applications and all kinds of documents is promoted. Thirdly, the meetings of the collective bodies shall be held by teleconferencing. At this point there is negative criticism from SYRIZA that the disciplinary officer will not be heard, as he should, when the disciplinary boards are convened with teleconferencing. The means of communication absolutely does not play a role in the objective crisis that the disciplinary board has to have and express. The second level aims to speed up and save resources in the functioning of the Legal Council by specialising staff from the eight new themes that will deal with similar assumptions. They are gradually planned to add further compositions, such as, for example, tax cases, political courts, criminal cases, pension and socio-security disputes. A third objective is to simplify procedures. It promotes the merger of offices of the Legal Council of State in order to operate its offices in the seats of the regions. This change will take place gradually and in the light of the new needs arising from the digitisation of the courts already in place. The cases will thus be dealt with directly at regional level, without intervening another office. Fourthly, by strengthening the general effort to dismantle the courts and to resolve disputes out-of-court disputes, the responsibilities of the State Law Council are increased in this part. The official charged with the case may propose that the dispute be resolved out of court if he and the head of the office suspect that there is a valid private claim against the public. Fifthly, changes are being made to the procedure for the introduction of the officials of the Legal Council, as well as amendments to the system of promotion, inspections and disciplinary procedures. The invitation to tender shall be held on a regular basis every two years. Any person who has exercised a lawyer may no longer participate in the admission contest without having to be a lawyer at the moment. An independent inspection office shall be set up which members shall carry out operational inspections and evaluations. The evaluation shall be carried out once in three years in order to record shortcomings and problems in the operation of the operational unit. Despite the attempt of Officer Opposition to present this bill as a failed attempt to oppose the officials of the Legal Council, it proved in practice exactly the opposite. At the hearing of the committees, general support for the new provisions was confirmed in the most celebrating manner with the few comments made. It is quite unfortunate that the criticism of the counter-population, which has characterised the new regulation as criminal, which allows the operating of a case to propose an out-of-court resolution of disputes. There is no risk in the public interest, since it is not only a human being's decision. This is simply the beginning, since after the positive suggestion of extrajudicial resolution, the final decision is taken at the level of a three-member committee or part of the Legal Council. In any case, the positive suggestion is self-evident that it will be based on the precedent of the case at the time. Overall today, the overall, global and effective redefinition of the functioning of the Legal Council of State is achieved, always in the light of its real needs, as the officials of the Legal Council themselves have expressed, but the remarks of which have been incorporated by the Ministry's leadership. The government continues its work towards a better, more efficient operation of public administration. Finally, Mr President, I should like to refer to the very positive amendment, in my opinion, number 1073 of the Ministry of Health, which increases the authorised health expenditure limit of the EEAS, beyond which the clawback is activated by EUR 16.5 billion annually for 2020 and 2021. On this issue, I tabled a question about a month ago. Generally speaking, Minister, I think it is time to open the debate on the time for the gradual abolition of clawback. This mechanism has been introduced in exceptional circumstances as a measure with limited life and is excessively burdensome for the parties concerned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u177	Thank you too, Mr Ljupe, for keeping time. Two of them seem to me to go to the last triumph. Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, Parliamentary Representative of the Communist Party of Greece, is called at Vima.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u178	Thank you very much, Mr President. The curtain of an insurmountable controversy in the context of the International Exhibition of Thessaloniki between the New Democracy and SYRIZA has begun to arise, which cannot cover as much dust as the strategic convergence of the New Democracy, SYRIZA and KINAL - PASOK, with the needs of the monopolies and the aims of the ruling class. Who defines this policy? It is the European Union's own policy. You agree with the European Union's policy and its strategy, namely green and digital transition, a choice that comes to reduce the overcompensation of funds, but also at the same time, will result in greater disparities, since green goods are much more expensive than conventional goods, so more popular strata will be excluded from access to green goods. Green energy confirms the continuous increase in electricity tariffs and at the same time will strengthen the digital divide between the wide folk layers and the rest that have access to digital technology. So, in this policy, the green and digital transition strategy is agreed by all parties, but it is not only in agreement with it, because it could say that it would apply it in a different way. They also agree on the tools for implementing this strategy. And such tools are the Recovery Fund, which, in addition to funding to business groups, is accompanied by a pan-European memorandum that has been defined by the European Union and it is nothing but what some parties are talking about returning to European regularity and that the New Democracy brings no laws that support European regularity, it is outside it. But do we not see a little more specifically what this European normality means, for example, in the labour market that SYRIZA at least has made it a key issue of confrontation with government policy? What is European regularity and what the pan-European memorandum will bring? In the name of shielding the competitiveness of business groups and capitalist profitability, it constantly forms the mechanism for the reproduction of a very cheap labour force, a consumable labour force. From this point of view, all the governments and the previous Memorandums and the current bills that they have brought together have contributed to this. And from this point of view, the debate on minimum wages covers the real substance. Which one? That SYRIZA insists on the Ultimate Law Brutsi - Ahtsoglu, that the Minister determines the minimum wages. And, of course, it is not even possible to question the conditions under which the majority of workers, particularly young workers, are working, that is, in part, temporary, opportune, black-working, intensification, extortion and threats to the labour market, without sectoral agreements protecting the working class as a whole. Of course Mr Brutsis, speaking just now as a Parliamentary representative, said that they support wages by reducing insurance contributions. Really? So insurance contributions are off the payroll? Isn't that the total nominal salary of the employees? That's nice math! When all wages are reduced, whether they are net or go to insurance, then they are increased - it says - the wage. Symbol math! Because the President of SYRIZA, Mr. Tsipras, told the Association of Greek Industrialists. "Don't worry about increasing the minimum wage, because we will take measures to reduce non-wage costs", i.e. insurance contributions. So, through this process, who wins? Of course, the business groups. To avoid saying that, in essence, we must discuss the real wages of the working class and not the nominal wages, when the actual wage is determined by the tax attack on the wage layers, is determined by the exactity that breaks the labour income, is determined by the merchandise of health, education and welfare. So, then, the thing is not from which pocket they'll take your money, but don't take your money. It is not from which pocket, then, will the working class lose income. And their agreement, not only with the New Democracy, SYRIZA, KINAAL or the Greek Solution, proved to be very briefly with the anti-government methods of the European Union and proved by voting in favour of the European Parliament report. The MEPs of all these parties voted in favour of the report, which is of course a document. - "Governmental conditions, rights to social work of workers on the platforms, new forms of employment linked to digital development", i.e. workers on digital platforms, such as the threats and blackmails of e-food, i.e. workers who had a contract of employment - who were employed - to become self-employed workers. So what does the notorious report that everyone voted for? Let's see how hypocritical it is for the built-in rights of working class employees! It says that the report must respect the status of workers on a platform that is truly self-employed, not respecting their employees and their rights but self-employed and that if anyone wants to prove that he has a hired position, he should resort to the court to prove that he has an employee employment relationship with the electronic platform. And at the end of the day, the cherry on the cake is that you don't care about the unions, but you're creating cooperatives, cooperatives and such forms that you can get a piece of the pie and have a role in organising the digital platform. That's what he says. And that reason came to defend Mr Varoufakis with his position. He was, of course, supposed to support workers on digital platforms and on e-food. This now highlights the allergy that all parties in the bourgeoisie, the ruling class and the Euromono street have in relation to the trade unions and unions, in relation to the class struggle, in relation to a work that will have structured labour, insurance and trade union rights. Why? Because this calls into question the competitiveness and profitability of business groups. And in this, you identify all parties and New Democracy and SYRIZA and KINAL and Greek Solution and Mera25. And it even came to suggest as a revolutionary logic the guild, to make a cooperative as well. I mean, go back to the regime of 19th-century guilds. The guilds that would deplete capitalism and put a brake on big property, capitalist! What was the result? The bankruptcy of these guilds. So Mr Varoufakis is going back to us with his proposals in the 19th century and is even showing them as something new that workers should embrace to do what? To get away from the organized class trade union movement. Because that is precisely what scares the capitalists and not, of course, the various cooperatives, which are essentially a masked form of capitalist property and do not question that logic. This European standardity is defined not only by the attack on the labour market and liberalisation, the working middle ages, is determined by the logic of market liberalisation, privatisation. And the results of this logic of market liberalisation and of the green transition are seen in the energy sector where the degreasing and restoration of domestic lignite with imported gas has evaporated electricity prices in the uranium. Of course, this recovery fund will be paid by the people of Europe, because there is no money free, and the monopolistic groups will win both through infrastructures that the states will build to serve their investment plans and direct investment subsidies. The second tool of the European Union is expansion policy. SYRIZA celebrates that expansion policy is a progressive policy because that is how it grows - it says - liquidity. But the medicine is also known at the same time. Why? Because we have an increase in prices, inflation precisely because of the excessive supply of money that is on the market. Here is one of the factors of accuracy, it is inflation because of the expansionist policy of the European Central Bank. And the instrument of fiscal stability will return over the next period regardless of whether the rules are changed. But unequal economies cannot rely on budgetary stability. And, in essence, the Greek people must strive to achieve the bloody primary surpluses so that they can serve the state debt they have done to implement, to support the policies and interests of monopolistic groups. And the second element of this strategy is the geostrategic upgrading of business groups to get a piece of the plaiting that takes place in the wider area as well. And that is what you all agree on. And this involves Greece even more deeply in the American imperialist plans. The government is already preparing the five-year strategy agreement with the United States of America on the conversion of our country into an infinite basis for charging the Americans and the Natali in the wider region, as well as converting it into a power station and, at the same time, to a magnet of retaliation at the expense of the needs of the Greek people. This growth, for which the government celebrates, is a bloody development, Minister, because it is based on the constant sacrifices of the working class and the rest of the populace to ensure profitability. And it cannot be done otherwise because the management of whatever form it takes, and whoever it is, cannot challenge the exploitation of the system in any way, by turning the rich into richer and poorer people, by increasing and constantly increasing social inequalities. But one will claim, what the JRC says is escaping because here SYRIZA is making other proposals on taxation in relation to the government. But what brings you all together on matters, for example taxation? Don't bother and don't tax the big capital. When he proposed that the JRC should change the constitution as regards the taxation of shipowners, their constitutional exemption from taxation, then New Democracy, and SYRIZA, and KINAL flew into the heavenly, "do not touch the sacred and loyal capital as regards taxation and their tax avoidance". So what do you want? Free capital from taxation and make a redistribution between the popular strata of who will pay the smallest or most of the taxes. That is why the tax system is an anti-grassroot. And on this anti-grassy character you cultivate hallucinations and delusional ones. Because the most anti-grassrooted taxes which neither New Democracy, nor SYRIZA, nor before, the PASOK has widened them and increased them, are VAT, indirect taxation, VAT on basic goods and services, which should be abolished, are the excise duties which fire the prices of goods and services in the heavens. Why, of course, together with the revenues, are also going to be spent. And here is the third, let us say this, a basic argument after the labour market and taxation, which is health. But isn't it a common policy to trade health? Did you not serve her and serve her? Is it not a common policy, as you say, that harmonious coexistence in public and private health? And what was the result? We saw it in the pandemic. The public system has essentially led to the collapse and conversion of hospitals into a disease and, at the same time, private hospitals have increased their profitability, their profits. And the government continues to make this choice, it supports these choices. Already for the vaccine with the amendment that brings the vaccination to private doctors. Instead of supporting who? The primary health care, in order to respond to all of this world, which has concerns about vaccination and universality, which must be in vaccination. Therefore, instead of developing the primary health care that makes personalised treatment for everyone who should be vaccinated, which can do free of charge all checks on any allergies that he may have, or on other issues that he may encounter and which cause side effects from vaccination. Instead of this instrument of organised primary health that will monitor the development of vaccination and be able to interfere and record symptoms. Instead of having scientific information about the substance throughout this world, the government resorts to private doctors to make the vaccine. Of course, even in anti-virusal measures, such as the suspension of work of non-vaccinated health, which speeds up the deterioration of public hospitals, it leads to mergers between hospitals and clinics and, in essence, speeds up public-private partnerships even in hospitals. So these issues define both the current government's programme and the next government's programme regardless of what the government will be. And anyway, our people must be rid of the logic of less evil because it is bad and the other option. So we are going to choose what is the evil that suits us more than to fight and claim the satisfaction of modern needs? So it has to stop waiting for a savior to come out of his way and relieve him of the problems he's living in. Thousands of saviors have passed, but the people continue to experience unsurpassed everyday life and reality and see their position deteriorating despite the fact that science, technology that could have relieved him of a number of problems. So we say clearly not to waste valuable time on the working class and the wide folk layers waiting for the new mediation because the only one who can save the people is the people themselves and has proved it with the very unprecedented activity and initiative he has taken, the popular self-organization and his organization through the fires and the response to the effects of the fires. I shall conclude, Mr President, with a reference to the amendments. Our rapporteur, Maria Konnakas, mentioned the Legal Council of State, very detailed and documented. And I will talk about the amendments because the same unacceptable regime is repeated to be regulated by means of an amendment completely different topics and thus to try to blackmail the parties' vote to support issues which, if they were to come separately as articles or as separate amendments, could have supported them. The examples in these amendments are too much. For example, Amendment 1068/167, which is an amendment by the Ministry of Finance, your Ministry. What are you bringing in? You bring the deferred tax on the banks and regulations you make on this deferred tax to facilitate the reorganisation of the financial system and at the same time put in two articles on issues with EAW, which, through these arrangements, can even be repaid by the employees of EAW, and which, as a party, are incomplete amendments, even though they are incomplete, we are prepared to support it. But we cannot accept this amendment. And much more so that Article 5 is related to the Air Force and military operations abroad when we say that the Greek troops must come to Greece. They have no place abroad participating in imperialistic missions. And the cherry is the compensation that the officers of the Armed Forces will get. We say that the military officials must rely on all the problems they face. But in this name we cannot legitimise Greece's participation in the imperialist plans and that this amendment can also be photographic because it refers to a transnational agreement. The transnational agreement is with Saudi Arabia for the transfer of the PATRIOT fate, as well as those of the Armed Forces accompanying this fate in Saudi Arabia. Another amendment is the one with a general number of 1071 and a special 170 where there is a series of provisions which cannot be voted on by the JRC and at the same time Article 6, which talks about the remuneration and remuneration of the assistant coordinators of teachers abroad, of foreign training, which we see as a positive JRC. But we are not allowed to vote in favour of this provision, because it is precisely because other provisions are included in this amendment as a whole. There is, respectively, the amendment by the Ministry of Culture and Sport, as well as by the Ministry of Health. In particular will Maria Konnakka be mentioned in her dentistry. From this point of view, as a JRC, we stress the need for the people once again to organise the struggle from better positions and conflict with the real responsibility, which is no more than the capital and its power, and to take over power, and to organise the economy and production with the focus of satisfying the people's needs and not the necessary funds. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u179	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u180	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u181	The Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouras, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u182	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall table two additional legislative proposals. They're literally legal, you'll see. The title of the bill is added to the words 'and other provisions', i.e. those three words. In addition, where we have Article 49 'for doctoral and postgraduate diplomas of a legal department of national or equivalent', the words 'or competently recognised' are added.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u183	Thank you. We're moving on. The Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Apostolos Besiropoulos, is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u184	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with the targeted measures announced by Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, our government continues to reduce taxes and this is not an opportunityal policy. Tax reduction is a conscious choice and top priority of this government along with strengthening the development process. People'sism is no longer a product that does not sell. In the face of the words, in the promises without reflection, in a 'grey' past, there is the constituted political proposal by Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis. There are the permanent institutional interventions of this government. Ladies and gentlemen, I have taken the floor in order to refer to the amendment with a general number of 1071 and a specialist of 170 tabled by the Ministry of Finance. The first three articles in the amendment deal with the institutional and legislative gap that existed for the individual vehicles of particular construction and, in particular, for the so-called used parts vehicles. They are vehicles with specific characteristics, having been partly manufactured using components, components and accessories from used vehicles and produced in small and limited quantities each year by manufacturers, workshops or other units and not large automotive industries using industrial methods. Individual special-built vehicles may be classified in Greece, but the scope for taxation has so far not been defined, thus becoming inactive and the provisions permitting their circulation. So this gap is covered by the amendment we are tabling. The first article of the amendment provides for the imposition of the registration fee on the vehicles concerned by paying a single amount according to the rolling-stock of the motor vehicle. It is a necessary institutional intervention aimed at ensuring the sustainability of this innovative activity, while at the same time preventing them from being placed on the market. The time from which the obligation to pay arises, as required, shall also be regulated and the procedure for attesting and collecting the registration fee. Article 2 provides the possibility of legislative authorisation to the Minister of Finance for the adoption of a decision setting out the terms and conditions for customs supervision of the construction of the particular category of vehicle in order to be put into circulation as vehicles of second-hand parts. The same decision also defines the manufacturer's obligations towards the customs authority and any other necessary matter. Article 3 defines the tax treatment in terms of the imposition of traffic charges for individual rolling-stock vehicles, and provides for the same scale as for passenger vehicles paying traffic charges on the basis of the same criterion. Finally, Article 4 sets out the framework for taxation in cases of conversion of open lorries into closed vehicles. In particular, the one-off payment of the registration fee according to rolling of the motor vehicle shall be maintained. The new element, however, is that the figures currently in force for the grading fee are reduced by about 50% in open goods with a gross weight below three and a half tonnes which are converted into closed trucks. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that the content of this amendment is an area of convergence and agreement in order to express the consensus and agreement of all political forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u185	And thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. This is where Mr Tsavdaridis was concerned, the Deputy Minister was very brief. Mr Lazaros Tsavdaridis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u186	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, what has been demonstrated today, as has also been demonstrated at the relevant meetings of the relevant committee of the House, is that even for such an important bill, but also necessary, which modernises the Statute of the Legal Council of State after many years, SYRIZA has been stirring griefly and obsessedly against opposition tactics in order to fire its toxic policy. SYRIZA spoke to the committees about criminal and anachronistic provisions, complained that we ignored the bodies and that we neglected all the trade unions, accused us of having no picture of the reality, even tried to criticise the government's economic policy and was repressed up to the measures to alleviate the burdens of society that Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis announced from the IGC, criticizing us that these are supposedly focused on the few and privileged, and not on many. And all of this, he might even have a word of opposition. Well, you didn't know, did you ask, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, that this legislation was a product of fruitful cooperation between the Ministry of Finance, the leadership of the Legal Council of State, the Association of Members of the Legal Council of State and its officials? Although you did not know, you did not ask why he, the former president of the Legal Council of the State, Mr. Halkias, appointed by you in 2018, gave the Government congratulations on tabling this bill? Did you not know that even the KINAL rapporteur, who is so struggling to side borrowed suns, slogans and green shades in your Chief's address at the ICU, did not hear that he and the KINAAL's rapporteur himself confessed that the government heard the bodies in the bill? You want to make it up to your own opposition. It's all right, we're all judged by the Greek people. In the interests of our people, as well as in the interests of the public interest, the Government is today calling for a draft law which reflects its will to reform the provisions of an organization that is a valuable and supporter of the Greek state, since much of its services are concerned with the handling of judicial cases with parties to public law, independent authorities or other bodies in the public sector, for which it is responsible for judicial support. What, however, is the necessity of changing the Statute of the Legal Council of the State? A 20-year-old organisation is necessary to modernise its structure and function, to update the service situation and the concept of disciplinary responsibility, both of its staff and of its administrative staff, and to ensure the simplification of procedures in its mode of operation, in order to speed up its pace of action and to qualitatively upgrade its work. In what way, however, is this improvement achieved? First, with the digital transformation of the Legal Council of the State which will definitively eliminate the bureaucratic practices of the past, thus speeding up the administration of justice and the enforcement of the judgments of the courts. Thus, it opens the way for the teleconferencing conferences of the Agency's collective bodies, for dealing with cases by electronic order with its President, for the electronic handling of documents and files, for the electronic submission of applications, appeals, appeals, for the communication of calls, for the uniform and overall handling of similar cases, but also for the changes in the exercise of the advisory work relating to the obligation to deliver an opinion no later than three months after the appropriate submission or completion of the question. Secondly, the improvement in the functioning of the State Legal Council is achieved by restructuring the organisation's structure, as the 30 judicial offices outside the Regional Unit of Attica open up the way for the gradual merger of the State's Legal Council offices and the change of functions as offices of the State's Legal Council in the district seats. Improving the functioning of the Law Council of the State is achieved: Third, modernising and simplifying the disciplinary law of the officials of the Law Council of State and improving the inspection system. Fourthly, by strengthening the constitutional competence of the Agency for an out-of-court settlement of disputes between the public and its institutions with the individuals who will dismantle the courts and engender the rule of law. And fifthly, by improving the institutional framework governing the overall service situation of the officials of the Legal Council of State, the preconditions and the procedure for entering it of new officials in order to be able to meet the requirements of the new era with sufficient and efficientness. The main axes in this direction are, on the one hand, the provisions for streamlining the criteria for the permanentisation of the judiciary and the transfer system, and on the other hand, the provision that the introductory tendering procedure to cover the Agency's posts will be held on a regular basis every two years with new criteria and a way of sorting, so that the State's Legal Council operates without vacant organic posts. At this point, I would ask the Minister to rethink an issue which could be provided for in this bill. In particular, it does not provide for a transitional provision for the appointment of the remaining successors of the recent 2019 PWN competition, which have been examined by the current legal regime, which will be replaced today by the adoption of this draft law. It is an appointment of the sixteen successors to the sixteen equal organic positions created within the initial twelve-month period of validity of the table provided by the 124 CSR and serving the proper functioning of the CSR in the middle of a pandemic. Ladies and gentlemen, these important areas once again have the seal of the Government of New Democracy, of a government that talks to the citizen through its volume, but also the quality of its legislative work, leaving the sterile opposition to those who did not have the time, to those who had deceived and to those who preached "Or we are ending them or ending us". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u187	Thank you, Mr. Tsavdaridis. Mr Vassilis Kokalis from the SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u188	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today the draft law on the Statute of the Legal Council of the State. I will repeat its successful phrase by the rapporteur of the Officerial Response to the Government: 'We urge you with the improvements that you will bring to the vote as many articles as possible'. The truth is, as much as you try to show the opposite, that in philosophy and the need to change, the Statute of the Legal Council of State has been established, we agree. This body has at least 20 years of age. However, there are some important issues to which we disagree. For example, I will mention the superpowers of the President of the Legal Council of the State. I have the impression, Minister, that many issues cannot be regulated by the President, because legislation will be required. Secondly, regarding the minority decision. Look, when an opinion of the Legal Board of the State is accepted by the Minister, it produces legal effects in terms of management. The administration has to comply. Years ago - correct me if I am wrong - it was true that the Minister could also adopt the view of minority, wrong path too. Now you go to the other end, not to mention the minority opinion at all. Moreover, the possibility of a compromise between public and private public disputes only with the possibility. Minister, the Legal Council of the State is a very serious institution, you know it and we know it and it is constitutionally guaranteed. It defends the interests of the public. You should and should add that this presumption must be made after the relevant case-law is understood after irrevocable judgments. Only the possibility of a private claim against the public, what it will cause is definitely legal uncertainty. And as I said about insecurity, it is the feeling, ladies and gentlemen, which currently holds the Greek society. Health insecurity, insecurity for the economy. As much as you try, as long as you present another reality, the best reality is the act itself. You blame us and blame us for not costing the measures proposed by Alexis Tsipras, one of which is the deletion of part of the private debt. Have you considered when, Minister, and ladies and gentlemen of the government, what will be the cost and the social costs, but also the budget, if they close down? You said before in your speech that the government is interested in many. Two different projects were presented at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition. One measure announced by the Prime Minister, you also said that it concerns the citizens throughout Greece, the tax on parental leave and donation to children. Really, how many are there for tax-free 700,000 and 800,000 euros?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u189	Is there a tax on the money?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u190	I shall reply, Minister. By EUR 300,000, you will also save this expenditure, Minister, to channel it for agricultural oil. What is the policy for many? Minister, you said about the red loans. Unfortunately, we are confirmed. What were we telling you and what did I tell you about the extrajudicial compromise? As the previous one failed, so will he. What for? Because it is not compulsory for the banks. To date, Minister, - listen to the information - thirty-four thousand sixty-seven applications have been submitted, of which twenty-five thousand ninety-three have gone ahead with the removal of confidentiality and financial data have been requested from the ADP. The nine thousand have moved to waiver of confidentiality, but they have not made any other measures and only about four hundred applications are complete, not to be examined for their validity, but to test the algorithm system. The two-month period under the law has not begun. Question: The bankruptcy law is in force. Auctions shall be valid for the first place of residence. What is the possibility of an out-of-court settlement? It's probably going to start at least in the spring of 2022. Can you give the borrowers the opportunity to resort to the extrajudicial compromise, a procedure which will begin after seven and eight months? Is that the success of the extrajudicial compromise? And we have not yet reached the results of how many of these thirty-four thousand applications have been submitted will actually be accepted, because that is the essence, Minister. Then you must celebrate when half the thirty - four thousand applications are accepted. I repeat, Mr President, the best reality is the act itself. Two words about the undetermined successors of the State Legal Council in the 2019 competition. This is where you need to restore injustice. The injustice these people suffer is really great, because they have succeeded in the contest. They're not candidates to give. They've already succeeded and waited for people to be appointed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u191	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u192	Mr President, I would like to speak for a moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u193	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u194	I'm sorry, I didn't want to make the speech, but my colleague just caused me. You said the measures were costly in Thessaloniki and you said something about deleting part of the private debt. How much is the cost, Mr. Comrade? We need to have a dialogue to understand and place myself. How much is the cost of this measure? You said the Chief of Officer Response suggested deletion of a party. How much?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u195	Tell you what the cost is. And I tell you that you are the person responsible, that the cost - social and economic - will be far greater than the cost for the State to support the people who have closed the state itself, Minister with a government mandate. I think I'm not saying anything absurd, we're not saying anything absurd, we're not saying something too much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u196	Mr. Red, you've become comprehensible. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u197	So you're telling me there's a benefit, not a cost. You say from the Step of the House it's costly. You cost it. I ask you 'how much' and you say 'you tell me' and otherwise it's costly? Did you realize that you're in a difficult position with what you said about your whole party and your political leader? You haven't cost the measures. You dare not say a sum and say from the Step that it is completely costly. And you make it even worse. You say that the benefit will be multiples of costs, that is, you also make a positive sign. Well, I can tell you that if you delete part of the private debt, 50% of the new debt for 2020 and 2021 only for tax administration 3 750 000 000. Tell me yours. You're causing me. I told you money. It will prove again that they were words of air. Secondly, you said about the red loans that the government failed. Sorry, do you not read worldwide that it is an example to be imitated by Greece of how it has managed to reduce the volume of red loans to banking institutions? I said this before, 29.4 billion here is the red loans in bank portfolios. You delivered them to us EUR 75.3 billion. Do you realize what a reduction we're talking about in two years? I'm talking with numbers. I'm talking with evidence. Of course I also said from the Step forward in this House that reducing red loans does not mean reducing private debt and that private debt remains a problem. The thirty-five thousand requests you made in the extrajudicial compromise are a sum that goes beyond the expectations that all participants had in the previous months in this law. That's the last point. You repeat the same argument that I have answered. The government took an initiative with which, in fact, the donations of real estate and movable and immovable property up to 800,000 - not 800,000 - are not taxed. I'm telling you three times and you're avoiding it. Today that we are talking about a parent transferring money to the child of EUR 500, EUR 1,000, not 800,000, is taxed independently from the first euro to 10%. We are therefore helping the entire Greek family with this. For the sums you avoid placing, the entire Certification, which concerns society as a whole and mainly the lower income layers and the middle class. The opposition avoids talking about movable property and goes to the real estate of "800,000". Mr Colleague, you rightly said that there was a tax free of up to 150,000. You know or you don't know that there are a hundred and fifty-five thousand seven hundred eighty-four dwellings in the middle-class area and benefiting? You know or don't know that from a hundred sixty thousand to a hundred eighty, which is also an eighty-sixteen thousand two hundred ninety-three of our compatriots? You know or don't know that from a hundred and eighty to two hundred thousand which is also the middle class, I don't think we're gonna argue with that - they're ninety-five-five-thirty-six of our compatriots helping with this measure? You know or don't know that from two hundred thousand to two hundred fifty are a hundred fifty-four thousand ninety households helping from this policy to real estate? I spoke to you about the movable property. You know or don't know that from two hundred and fifty thousand to three hundred thousand is ninety-two thousand twelve households? In short, not only by means of a measure for movable property, we are helping society as a whole, but we are coming and helping even more the middle class, so that it does not pay for a multiplicity of its assets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u198	Thank you, too. Mr. Maraveyas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u199	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, a series of provisions in the bill under discussion concern institutions of the Ministry of Finance. It certainly has a separate position here, the Legal Council of State, which is a constitutionally guaranteed authority that plays an extremely important role in defending the interests of the Greek State. It is therefore necessary to adapt it to the modern conditions and needs of the public services, in particular taking into account that almost twenty years have passed since the vote on Law 3086/2002 for the Board of Legal Affairs of the State. This reform concerns the responsibilities, structure and functioning of the Legal Board of the State, as well as the service and disciplinary responsibility of the functions and staff of the State. The aim, therefore, of all these changes is the Legal Council of State to harmonise its services with the current challenges by offering even more specific legal support to the public and to the dozens of bodies, independent authorities, legal persons of public law, Greek universities that supports in and out of the Greek courts. One of the tools that are always used to upgrade the services provided is the completion of the digital transformation of the State's Legal Council which is already in progress and is in line with the digital transformation of the rest of the public sector and of the courts. Another way of strengthening the role of the Legal Council of the State is the easier out-of-court or compromise of public disputes with private individuals, because the judicial road must not be a one-way road, nor, of course, is it considered to be a refuge for the lawmakers or public responsible bodies. Unfortunately, in practice, we have also seen this too many times: public bodies, precisely because they are unable to settle financial disputes with private individuals, rush to the courts without having first investigated alternative methods of resolving these disputes. Only because they fear that they will be blamed for a dispute in order to remove the responsibility of any extrajudicial compromise. I am closing, Minister, my position on the State Legal Council by urging the introduction of a transitional provision concerning the remaining vacancies of organic positions that can be covered by the successors of 2019. [[At this point the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS, takes over the presidential office.]] I would like, Minister, to focus also on your amendment that has already been incorporated into the bill, which concerns ODA. These are provisions facilitating the continuation of the smooth operation of the country's largest defence industry as they contribute to the improvement of the company's liquidity and the smoothing of EAW's response to its contractual obligations to its armed forces and other customers. On the occasion of our support with these provisions, I hope across the board that the future of EAB will be hoped that we can also recognise the very important interventions that the government is doing for today in order to make real use of our country's enormous technological potential in real time. Such an immediate initiative is also the "ARCHTAS" programme initially for the construction and mass production of the first great Greek drone. The universities of Thessaloniki, Thrace and Thessaly also participate in this programme. I feel very proud as our university is a pillar of such an innovative national effort, an applied high-tech project that demonstrates that Greek universities can contribute, in addition to the development of new knowledge and the substantial strengthening of the national economy. Last week, at the initiative of the Ministry of Finance, for which many congratulations are due to the participants, including to the professor from Volos, George Stumoulis, they met to sign a memorandum of cooperation with Aristotle, Democritus and the University of Thessaly. The aim is to direct the design and construction of a large-dimensional unmanned aeroplane capable of vertical take-off. Operational exploitation of this modern autonomous aircraft comes to meet needs not only of national defence and security, such as border surveillance but also of civil protection, such as early warning of fires and surveillance of other natural disasters. The ODA contributes to this ambitious effort through the experience and high training of its staff, while owning the full trading rights of the product to be produced. With new programmes, such as this, EAB aims to quickly become a profitable company that will provide jobs to our young scientists and technicians, public and Greek added value in a series of technological solutions as the country's largest defence industry, but also extends to the political sector. All of us who believe in the unexploited scientific potential of our country, expect to see EAB soon on the basis of initiatives such as mass production of the first great Greek drone, entering a period of recovery and strengthening its production potential with new activities not only in aeronautical industry but also in electronic systems and composite materials. I believe, in fact, that the private sector, which has already carried out research on the subject and contributes scientific knowledge and the production line, too, to this effort. I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying a few words about the presence of the Chief of Officership at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition. I will not, of course, remain in the crowd of contradictions and the savage promises we are used to, but as a doctor, I must point out a huge and dangerous lie that he has said indulgingly and directly against public health. So Mr Tsipras said: "I read the official ECDC figures and charts the day before yesterday, and our country is the last time, from August onwards, a champion in cases and deaths in Europe. It's the second in deaths per million people. That is the reality," said Mr Tsipras, who certainly read the communication from the European Centre for Disease Control but willingly, in my opinion, falsified it. Because I cannot believe that a letter could not understand that Greece in September is thirty-first throughout Europe in total losses due to the coronary. According to the ECDC, Greece, after 17 September, recorded after a year and a half a pandemic, a thousand and twenty-two losses per million inhabitants, well below the European average. So what happened, and thirty-one became first in a few 24 hours? The answer is self-evident and is in the desperate attempt of the Party of Officers' Response to alter the scientific data. To deform reality with amazing lies with the aim of only party exploitation of the health crisis, without any doubt about how heavy their consequences will be in society, which is disappointed by hearing such terrorisms about supposedly enormous state inefficiencies against the coronary. Then we wonder why there are fellow citizens who have no confidence in dealing with pandemic from the public health system. They must finally take responsibility for society and stop undermining, because the delightful prophecies of virtual reality only cause damage. On the contrary, all politicians must be responsible for assureing public opinion about the obvious: that the public health system provides effective and secure services in all areas, whether they are patients or vaccinated without lies and skyline nonsense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u200	We're continuing with Mr. Hatzyannakis from SYRIZA. Next is Mr Anastasiades, Mr. Amanatidis, Mr. Kavvadas. The process is completed with Mr Karaoglu and Mr Kurubli through Webex.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u201	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, despite the fact that today I was prepared to speak on the main topic of the bill, namely the legislation we are doing on the Legal Council of State, the amendments brought by the Ministries obliges me to turn to the amendment proposed by the Minister responsible for the process of transferring responsibility to the regions for the anti-flood protection projects. And I will also be quite clear because of my competence, of course, but also because of the traceability of these projects and studies in, very much, they concern the area I am elected to, Evia, the multipathy north of Evia. I will make a very small comment before entering the substance of the amendment, because I heard the colleague before putting him to another part of government efficiency in relation to the pandemic, I have to say that the world, now - and may come to Northern Evia to take him a walk - has judged the absolute effectiveness of the state mechanism with the Government of New Democracy. And that is why it makes us extremely sceptical about what measures it brings, as - I remind you - to a very recent question that we have asked a number of members of the SYRIZA, even on the crucial issue of managing the funds to deal with forest fires before they erupt, even there on this very crucial issue, which was paid almost all of Greece, we saw a huge waste of money in the management of the then responsible ministry. Unfortunately, that makes us very sceptical. Now, as far as this amendment is concerned, I believe that it has very important problems, not in fact only - and the essence of it can be discussed and we must discuss it - but also the way it comes here. And I'll be very clear. Assign, give, provide, projects and studies on the flooding flows in the regions, without specifying. While you say in the recital that you do so to address the impact of this year's fires - in fact, you put it in the explanatory statement and the time it takes, this summer - as you have the provision of the amendment, you say "projects and studies to control and regulate the flooding flows in regions of the regions..." - and state which regions, Attiki Peloponnese, Western Greece and Central Greece - "taken by the regions concerned under a programme contract, is concluded with the responsible director of the Ministry of the Environment and are assigned by direct awarding directly by means of the negotiation - thus direct award - by the regional director himself." Here we have a lot of issues: Firstly, with the recent legislative act - not a month has passed since we voted on it - you have passed the responsibilities of the Ministry of the Environment and while you have completely depreciated the regions - in our region the regional and regional authority itself, since you have put on top a committee of the so-called Benos Commission, which defines the whole, even externally - you are now coming and say that it will be done by decision of the regional authority, under a programme contract. I don't know if anyone understands that logic. And I do not understand what it means that all the acts of the procedure are issued by the relevant regional authority without a prior opinion or recommendation from another body. What can be the collective body of the region? The competition committee? And the opening of the files? Because the documents are available, despite the application to Article 32 of Law 4416. Who's gonna do it? The district manager? What instruments will the district manager do with it? Let this arrangement not be necessary, even for speeding up procedures. Because you know that these decisions in the urgent draft law, with the existing legal framework already in place, can be made by the economic committee in the region, which is also controlled by the regional authorities. It is not that the regional authorities do not have the majority. In all regions, the regional authorities have the majority. So what do we get? And this amendment is void and there will be problems with who, in fact, will do the job. Is the district manager going to designate someone? Unfortunately, there is a gap here. Who will examine the supporting documents? The district manager himself? Will there be a credit vote? With this legislative provision it will go to the Court of Auditors to check, it will become the pre-contractual audit that you say within twenty days - which is the only provision in fact from all of the amendment, which actually makes sense to speed up procedures, as we oblige the Court of Auditors to do its control within twenty days. Will the Court of Auditors, which will come to judge on the basis of the directive and on the basis of this amendment to the law, not every time will it not judge whether the conditions are met? What's he gonna judge? If the offer is good, is it economic or isn't it? He can't judge that. It will be in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 32. Shouldn't there be a technical file? There are too many gaps and, in fact, what I do at least understand is that you are bringing in a provision, supposedly, to speed up procedures, but in fact what you are doing is to cover up because there is not going to be any flooding work, unfortunately. As you did not do the anti-military works last year, after we mourned our eight fellow citizens' lives in Evia and not even half the flooding has been done so far. Unfortunately, this time, there will not be any anti-military work within the time that has to be done. That is why it is the least problem - in my view - whether it will be done in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 32, namely by direct delegation or negotiation. Possibly in such projects, because the conditions of the law are met and there is the institutional framework of both the directive and Law 4412, there are all the conditions to follow this procedure. What I understand is that you want to cover up and say that we ran the procedures, but beating wood not to mourn other victims and not to have weather effects that will lead us once again to dramatic situations - and in the other regions, not only in Evia, it is simply Evia that, unfortunately, is the example of those two years, 2020 and 2021. You want to cover yourself up and say that you have done procedures, which will not actually be done. Because when you say that this applies to public procurement procedures, which will start up to 30-11-2021 - that is in two months' time - or you have ready studies, and so you will be able to auction projects, and so these studies have not included the situation, which has taken place since the fires for the flooding or will only concern studies and therefore we will not see this winter, and we will just hope to have no flooding phenomena and mourn other lives. I think it is very rough to legislate on the way it comes. The institutional framework of our country is sufficient. Some changes can be made, just as you bring in the shorter timescales of the Court of Auditors. We believe that the relevant regional bodies - now that you remembered them while you had deceived them, even though they are your own politicians - all have the power and the speed to run the procedures - and they must run them. Once again, unfortunately, I very much fear that we will be coming in a few months and discuss what has not happened and you will try to say 'yes' to us, but we have legislated'. I hope, at least, that we don't do this on victims this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u202	We continue with Mr Anastasiades from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u203	Thank you very much, Mr President. Of course I do not share the fears and views of the outgoing colleague. I believe that the government is responsible for all the problems caused by the crises and by the fires, while setting the legal framework in order not to have any more issues. And the anti-military works will run and the regions will be shielded. So I think that my colleague's fears were too excessive. As far as today's bill, which we are debating again, is faithful to its commitments and to its election programme, continues its work. Under the draft law of the Ministry of Finance entitled "Association of the Law Council of the State (NCCC) and the situation of its officials and employees", which we are debating today is mainly aimed at reforming and modernising a historic body, which was set up, as we know, for the first time in 1882 by Prime Minister Charila Trikoupi, then called the Council of Legal Advisers, a precursor to the current Legal Council of the State. Since the last few decades he has offered a great deal to the public administration, to Greek society, to the state, to the citizens. The Legislative Council of State is, for over a hundred and twenty years, a single highest authority representing the state at both national and international level. Its task is the legal support of the public, the legal persons of the public, the independent authorities and the other bodies whose legal support and service and scope are of course very wide. For example, today offices of the Legal Council of State operate in the House, in the Presidency of the Government, in all the ministries, in important general secretariats, in independent authorities, in the ADP, in the National Transparency Authority, in legal entities governed by public law, in EFKA, in the EPPEY, but also in the largest universities in the country and, of course, there are also twenty-nine judicial offices, which operate in twenty-nine provincial cities. Nearly twenty years after the last body of the Legal Council of State in 2002, this bill comes to reform and modernise this organisation, as required by today's era, in order to meet today's needs and current requirements. This is a need, as has been discussed, explained and analysed very clearly by our rapporteur, Mr Spanaki, but also by the relevant ministers in the previous days and in the committees. The bill is composed of four parts and is contained in the provisions concerning the responsibilities, structure and composition of the Council of State. There are issues relating to the duties and duties of the officials of the Legal Council, public lawyers, as well as the arrangements for lawyers employed by the Legal Council. It covers matters or procedures relating to the status of officials, the procedure for contesting and appointing them, their disciplinary responsibility and their assessment, and includes arrangements concerning the administrative staff of the Legal Council. By depositing this draft law, the Government, the Minister responsible and the Ministers responsible are directly reshaping and modernising the responsibilities of the new organization, giving priority to new areas which will facilitate both the work of the Legal Council and its cooperation with the citizens and with the co-legislators. More specifically, the priorities of the new organisation are: the digital transformation of the Legal Council and its electronic operation in the context of the more general digital transformation of the state and of the courts. It is worth noting here that the main aim of these arrangements is to provide a high level of specialised services to the state and the citizens, but also to provide greater transparency in its functioning. Priority is given to restructuring and modernising the structure and functioning of the Legal Council by creating eight thematic configurations to deal with similar cases and by emphasising the specialisation and the economy of staff and media. Provision is made for arrangements on the staff of the officials of the Legal Council of the State, such as in organic positions, hierarchy, tender procedure and appointments, their insurance obligations, transfer and secondments, movement, permits and other related obligations. For the first time, the evaluation of the departments of the Legal Council of State will be carried out once every three years. Arrangements regarding the simplification of the procedures of the Legal Council, the dismantling and elimination of bureaucratic practices and its contribution to the prompt award of justice and the enforcement of court rulings are included. The constitutional competence of the Legal Board of the State shall be strengthened for an ex-judicial or compromise settlement of disputes between the public and other bodies with individuals. Finally, provisions concerning the general Staff Regulations of Officials of the Legal Council of the State in respect of the conduct of the import invitation to tender which is now regularly carried out every two years on a regular basis with new criteria and as regards the inspection, promotion and disciplinary law of the officials of the Legal Council of State are updated. Of all this, it is understandable that, with the bill, which we are discussing, significant changes are taking place in the structures and modus operandi of the Council of State. The modernisation, simplification and tightening of the disciplinary law of the officials of the Legal Council is speeding up the improvement of the system of review of the officials of the Legal Council by setting up an independent inspection office, redefines the evaluation criteria for public officials to meet the increased modern requirements of the new era. Finally, on the basis of what has been said above, but also what has been said today by colleagues and also by committees in the last few days, it is understood that the draft law, which we are discussing, is an attempt to create a modern Council of State which will offer society and public administration. That is why I believe that the parties and colleagues, who express reservations, must overcome them and support the bill that the government is bringing today to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u204	Thank you. Mr Georgios Amanatidis has the floor from New Democracy, followed by Mr Athanasios Kavadas.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u205	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will begin, and allow me to do so, on a basic assumption. It has also been heard by previous speakers. The Legislative Council of State has for decades provided the highest level of public administration, state, Greek society and, ultimately, citizens. It manages, as is well known, a huge amount of public affairs and a large number of other bodies with a structure that had been developed with the twenty-nine offices in twenty-nine corresponding cities in Greece, but also abroad, representing them in the courts. Therefore, on the basis of the above, the Government's initiative is absolutely correct since it is a very important matter to optimise the operating conditions of the State's Legal Board. This has also been reflected in the explanatory statement where it is clearly stated that the draft law aims directly at reforming and redesigning the functioning of the State Law Council in order to bring about modernisation, flexibility, speeding up and simplifying procedures. Of course, one would reasonably wonder whether these changes which are being promoted by this draft law are necessary and what the feasibility of these changes is. Ladies and gentlemen, it goes without saying that twenty years after the end and the introduction of a corresponding law, of Law 3086/2002, it is necessary as ever - and perhaps I would say that we have been late - to move forward and say not to reform, but to update this law in order to bring about modernisation, redesign, flexibility, speed up and simplification of procedures if we consider that it is the means to have a rapid administration of justice, the implementation of court decisions, as well as greater transparency in the functioning of the Legal Council of the State. The ultimate purpose of the upcoming changes introduced by the Agency is to upgrade and modernise its services, but also to offer even higher quality legal services to public and other bodies, as has been said earlier, independent authorities, legal entities governed by public law, HEI, etc., to which legal support is provided. It is also intended to carry out its work in a modern, efficient, management-friendly and citizens-friendly manner. In what way? By exploiting the deep scientific knowledge of the servants in it, as well as the products of technology. Now the achievement of these objectives is being facilitated by an extensive, as has been said earlier, a digital transformation of the Legal Council of the State which is already under way, and of course, as we have said earlier, it is going through an overall effort. which is being done in the country to modernise public administration as a whole, i.e. to move to digital Greece, which is in progress at a rapid pace. The new organisation - it was heard earlier - is not the case of some experts, it was not in closed offices, it came from a participatory process, of course, and from a compositional procedure, it is the result of a permanent and fruitful cooperation of the Ministry of Finance, the leadership of the Legal Council of State, the Association of Members of the Legal Council of State and of its officials. As the Minister has said in detail - and here I am given the opportunity to say that today I was impressed once again by the evidence methodology followed during the exchange of views within Parliament - the core of the draft law came from the Legal Council of the State itself, that is, allow me the expression, from the users of this draft law. It is therefore a product of an entirely participatory process from the bottom up. And let us not forget the consultation process that took place when it was posted for two weeks online on the 4-6-21. The meetings were also heard incorrectly and mainly by SYRIZA that the necessary consultation was not followed by the government. They are usually used to react to those who are either not involved in the consultation process or who are willing to participate in an incomplete manner. Therefore, no exception could be made in this respect. So let me also mention a few features, for the bill said by the Minister, as the spatial restructuring of the Legal Council of State, the modernisation of its structure and function, the simplification of procedures, digital transformation and its electronic operation, the updating of the provisions on recruitment competitions at the Legal Council of State, the modernisation, simplification and stricter disciplinary law of the officials of the Legal Council of State. That was a qualitative evaluation of this draft law and let me say two words and make a quantitative assessment by speaking of some of the articles. Article 4 defines in detail the responsibilities of the Law Council of the State and see from Article 4 and from the description the range of users of its services. Article 16, which has been made quite clear to the committee with the bodies, concerns the transformation of judicial and extrajudicial matters. The proposed provision can be formed by the President's decision of eight thematic formations. Besides, three of them are running right now. Why are three already working? Because it has already appeared in the course of the work of the Legal Council of the State that specialisation and targeting are required on certain issues. The notion of the eight different groups - commissions, as you say, is therefore the result of the need for a high level of provision of services, which is why. Article 77 provides for the first time that the evaluation of the services of the units of the Legal Council of State is to be carried out. The concept of evaluation, as you can see, is now being discussed regularly and systematically over the last two years, and this shows a government decision to promote the concept of dignity at all levels, to promote the evolving process of improvement, which is what society and its citizens want. I should also like to say that the evaluation is a useful tool to identify problems, shortages of staff, shortages of logistics and, more generally, the smooth operation of the task force. I would add that the concept of evaluation is essential for continuous improvement, which we are also seeking. Article 78 refers in detail to the inspection of the officials of the Legal Council of State. The draft law brings about a significant improvement in the inspection system, which, through the proposed changes to the system that can be assessed, quantified, is objectively objective, the system is objectively justified, compatible with the increased modern quality requirements for the work of each public operator. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the draft law, which we are debating today, obeys the needs of the times, technological developments and progress, makes changes, dares to the way in which the Legal Council of the State is structured and run in order to achieve its purpose on the basis of two basic principles, economic and efficiency. The government once again demonstrates that it produces a reform work on the basis of all the proposals made by the relevant bodies to be realistic - very important - and gives value to the consultation, participation and creative composition of views. It creates a functional and productive environment, which will help to optimise the implementation of the objectives of the Legal Council. In conclusion, let me also say on the occasion of what my dear colleague, Mr Thanasis Ljupis, said earlier to me on the subject of claw back and rebate, because I believe that, if there is a need, the system should be rationalised instead of these two methods being applied. I would also like to mention the need to implement the 2014 decision where it has spatially distributed the health system's expenditure on these issues. However, it must be stressed that the increase, which has already been approved by 17 million funds for claw back, is very important, which will also give the interested parties a breath. With these considerations it goes without saying that I am voting in favour of this draft law. On the basis of what I have heard and of the clarifications that the Minister has given to what was said by the opposition, I think that opposition has no reason to do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u206	Thank you. We are now continuing with Mr. Kavvada from New Democracy and we will conclude with Mr. Karaoglou and Mr. Kourublis from the Internet. Then the rapporteurs have said that they want to make an intervention for four minutes each and the procedure is closed with the Minister if he wants to intervene. Mr. Kavvada, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u207	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in 2014 the President of Officerial Representation presented the famous Thessaloniki Programme to the ID. Pre-election proclamation with promises and announcements that some have never realised, such as an increase in the minimum wage to EUR 751. I will submit it at the end of my speech in the Minutes. This year, seven years later and after a government mandate was preceded, which brought in a third unjustified memorandum, Mr. Tsipras won. He uploaded his offer to 800 euros and, along with the minimum wage, presented a new version of the Thessaloniki program with announcements and measures that affect both costing and implementation. At the same time, it makes an enormous effort to devaluate all positive measures by the New Democracy Government, a government that at its core has a reduction in taxation and is constantly proving it by means of actions. A characteristic example is the increase in the tax rate for parental benefits to EUR 800,000 and not only for property, but also for cash, for vehicles, for shares, bonds. Anything up to 800,000 euros can no longer be tax-free for parents since October 1, 2021. SYRIZA is trying to convince that the government's measures concern few and are not of interest to anyone. However, no matter how much it is with the numbers, it does not convince anyone, because they are diluted by experience, the daily lives of the citizens. Unfortunately for SYRIZA, political time is not coming back. Greece's not coming back. Comparisons are now catalytic. They are reflected in the measurements of the opinion. Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis presented an integrated framework for economic and social support measures in Thessaloniki. The big difference in relation to Mr Tsipras' promises is that the support measures, as well as the tax reductions announced by the Prime Minister, are directly implemented. If there is a party, which cannot be mentioned in the middle class, that is the party of Officerial Resistance, which, as a government, has launched an unprecedented tax raid against the middle class. It was a conscious choice that tax raid. The then Minister of Finance, Mr. Tsakalotos and the Deputy Minister, Mr. Juliarakis, confirmed this in public in November 2017. And because some things are good not to be forgotten, I will also submit the relevant reports at the end of my speech in the Minutes. In just one post, pension cuts, the elimination of the CSR, the increases in contributions for freelance professionals, countless increases in direct taxation, including the increase in rates of solidarity contribution. It is a contribution that the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis abolished it for the private sector and that, according to the Minister of Finance himself, Mr Stagira, it is being considered for both pensioners and civil servants if we have the desired growth rates. From there on, ladies and gentlemen, the government has done a wealth of legislative work. It changes and modernizes institutions, as is the case with the new body of the State Law Council. The new organisation upgrades the operating framework of the Legal Council of State, the proper functioning of which is of key importance. I would remind you that the Legal Council of State provides legal support to all public structures and independent authorities. With the new organisation, firstly, digital transformation is promoted. Secondly, there are eight thematic frameworks for specialization in the nature of cases called for by the Legal Board of State. Thirdly, the competences of the Legal Council are strengthened in the direction of extrajudicial dispute resolution. Fourthly, a tendering procedure shall be established for the recruitment of new executives every two years and with new and up-to-date criteria. And fifthly, new evaluation criteria are being formulated, because all the public services structures must be subject to evaluation. Ladies and gentlemen, I would particularly like to dwell on the amendment tabled, which contains regulations relating to the Greek Air Industry. I do not need to point out how important the role of ODA, which maintains our airplanes and participates in the program to upgrade F-16 Block 52 Advanced and Block 52 Plus to Viper. EAB also implements the program for delivery to the Air Force of C-130. At the same time, in its development planning, there is also the prospect of creating a C-130 maintenance centre that can maintain aircraft of this type, but also F-16 from other countries, thus creating prospects for the development of our military industry. Therefore, it is particularly important to regulate, which reduces the retention rate by the end of 2023 by the Greek State against all the debts of ODA to the State from 20%, which is currently 5%. The same applies to the arrangement whereby EBA is exempted from the obligation to produce proof of tax and insurance information up to 31/12-2022. Ladies and gentlemen, the Legislative Council of the State is the primary institution of protection of the public interest. From the judicial support of the State and its advisory function, until its legal support and representation of the Hellenic Republic in international courts, the Legal Council of State, serving the legal order, serves the Greek citizen. The citizen is, moreover, the first concern of any political decision, any legislative act, any social initiative here of the Government, the Government of Mr Mitsotakis. We are preparing a programme based on the citizen, managing crises by supporting the citizen. We are working on development that focuses on the citizen and focuses on the citizen, we are legislating on institutions, pillars of democracy and parliamentaryism, such as the Legal Council of State. That is why we support and vote for the bill under discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u208	Thank you. We are now continuing with Mr Karaoglou and ending with Mr Kurubli. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u209	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is customary when we discuss a bill from the Ministry of Finance to make a more general reference to issues relating to the economy, let alone when there is now a very good opportunity to give some answers to what was said during the weekend, at the 85th International Report of Thessaloniki, by the President of the Officerial Opposition, Mr Tsipras. In our place there is a proverb, which says "wolves, even though he has grown and whitened his wool, neither has he changed his head". This wise popular saying was my first thought, when I heard Mr Tsipras speak from the step of the Thessaloniki International Exhibition, and I was confirmed when he argued that in the time of the crises we cannot proceed as before, adding that it is time to draw a line and change. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, this is the great risk of this time, of changing as a country and as a society, of changing attitudes and attitudes, of changing the way we evaluate individuals and situations. And if something has taught us history is that the Greeks have grown up in the last two years. In July 2019 we took the fate of the country in our hands, giving a strong mandate to the New Democracy and Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis to make Greece safe, proud, prosperous. We deserved better than the decline and misery of the period 2015-2019 and managed to put an end to populism, lies, the division of the Greek people, not only because we deserve better, but mainly because we can better. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that no new principle that you are evangelizing cannot be done with old illusions. The subject is not just the contents of your announcements. We know what you are capable of, having the experience of the Thessaloniki Programme in September 2014 at the then International Exhibition of Thessaloniki, a programme that was a monument of political deception. The essence, in my opinion, focuses on your mentality and style that confirms that the Left of your time acts as an impediment to any real change that our country needs. The fact that you were ‘reformed’ in the governance exams unfortunately did not make you wiser. But the worst thing is that you did not understand that our compatriots judge and evaluate the political parties on the basis of who is able to transform promises into possible plans and slogans into real policies. That's how SYRIZA became synonymous with populism, hypocrisy and vote. For example, we heard Mr. Tsipras pretending to be the self-determined protector of the middle class, when in November 2017 from the Step of the competent Committee on Economic Affairs of the Parliament, Mr. Tsakalotos and Mr. Juliarakis described as a conscious choice to overtax the middle-class during the period when SYRIZA was responsible for the governance of the country, an over-taxation, which almost led to the extermination of the middle-class. "It was a national need," the President of SYRIZA was justified in an attempt to hide that you were a government with a class division. Just remember that as in life, as in politics, meaningless self-criticism is not enough to restore a relationship. You have taxed everyone and everything, with thousands of households watching their incomes fall, hundreds of thousands of professionals shut down their books to get away from the great insurance contributions and property owners to pay HISBIA, and even increased HISBIA that you were supposed to abolish. You taxed income, consumption tax, deposit taxes, fuel tax, coffee tax, mobile phone tax, taxes, even accommodation in hotels. And instead, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, to learn from yesterday, you insist on the classic opposition tactics of the promises of benefits, without proving that these are possible under what conditions. You have not learned anything, so you have not changed to anything. On the other hand, the Government of the New Democracy has complied with its electoral commitments, by implementing a targeted policy of reducing taxes, which concerns society as a whole, without exclusion and discrimination. At the same time we are constantly trying to reform the state, to develop a genuine production process at last. We are a premium for innovation so that we can keep our young people at home and modernise the rural economy. This is how we reached the point of recent research by ERNST&YUNG to classify Greece among the ten most attractive countries for investment. Our country is now a European country with prospects and there is no doubt that when the indicators prosper, it is not a long way to go when prosperity is spreading to the citizens, since growth works as a multiplier of progress. In this chain of development, the State's intervention for the Board of Legal Affairs of the State is also added in this chain of progress. The Ministry of Finance's legislative initiative upgrades the organisation's organisation's organisation's organisation's organisation's organisation's organisation's organisation's organisation's organisation's organisation's organisation's organisation's organisation's organisation's organisation's organisation's organisation's organisation's organisation's organisation's organisation's organisation's organisation's organisation's organisation's organisation's organisation's organisation's organisation's Our aim is for the Legal Council of the State to serve its role, to modernise, to become more flexible, to act as an accelerator of justice, while contributing to the provision of higher quality legal services in the field of judicial handling, but also in the field of advisory work. Our main objectives through this process are the digital transformation and the electronic functioning of the organisation, the restructuring of the structure by creating thematic formations for dealing with similar cases, the simplification of procedures, the elimination of bureaucratic practices, the strengthening of its constitutional competence for extrajudicial or compromise settlement of public disputes with private individuals, and the establishment of a new legal framework for the conduct of the import contest, which will now be conducted on a regular basis every two years. I won't go into details so I won't get tired of this House. In addition, colleagues have had the opportunity to comment in detail on issues relating to the Legal Council of the State. I will close my speech by submitting the view of the President of the Legal Council of the State of Eugenia Veloni, who defended the draft law, arguing that his philosophy of the organization is more democratic and effective in terms of the interests of the public and the service of the citizens. Indeed, he has innovatively described the provision for the extrajudicial compromise, stressing that it will lead to the decongestion of the courts, the rapid administration of justice and the incorporation of the rule of law. With these considerations it goes without saying that I, as a person, and the New Democracy as a whole, are voting in favour of the Treasury bill, because it is quite simply a legislative initiative that will allow the country not to return to the turbulence of the past. Greece is leaving forward. Greece changes day after day, grows, progresses thanks to the Government of New Democracy, thanks to our Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u210	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u211	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u212	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u213	I am tabling a legislative amendment to the Ministry of Health's amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u214	We continue with Mr Panagiotis Kourublis and then the rapporteurs immediately after the end of the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u215	Mr President, I have almost been persuaded by the words of my dear friend and colleague Theodoros Karaoglou that we are in heaven, but I am not allowed to feel that happiness. Minister, because you, too, have been misled today, and you have made references to matters which have nothing to do with the bill, I have also been taken away from you and you will allow me to remind you of this. For some time now, there has been a unanimous decision of the Legal Council of the State asking the Greek Government to bring an action for damages against "NOVARTIS", following the compromise reached between the company and the US State, which, because of its unfair competition, won over 300 million euros in Greece. I do not mean anything, but I would like as a Member of the Greek Parliament a place for you, even if you cannot do so today, at least at the next meeting of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, why so far Greece has not exercised such a right. Mr President, I have heard many references to youth issues. In fact, an amendment was tabled by the Minister for Health, which is really impressive, because others said to us, Mr Mitsotakis in Thessaloniki, and others bring this amendment, which is actually trying to bribe young people. Young people have shown in their overwhelming majority that they need to be vaccinated and they do so and therefore another treatment is needed for them to be kept by the state. Minister, you will manage about 80 billion in the next two years. I ask you this in good faith again. There is no programme, Mr President, of thirty, forty, twenty, up to fifty thousand euros - I am not talking about million programmes - which can be subsidized by one, two, three young people who want to be active in the business sector. It is also a question that I do not want to put into party logic. I'll put it in a national logic. We all know what happened ten years with the crisis in the young children, and how many people took their teams and got out of sleep. At least, let us give those who are in Greece such an opportunity since there is so much money. Once there is so much money, it is right that there should be such a request from anywhere. Mr President, the Legal Council of State through its activities since 1882 - if I am not mistaken - has been established in the consciousness of the Greek people as an institution that has really served the interests of the Greek public during this time. After twenty years it is useful to try all of us, which introduces this draft law in the House, and the opposition to contribute to the redefinition, so that, in view of developments and technology, its digitisation and the demands of life will become an institution that serves Greek democracy by continuing its credible way of being and being able to respond to the needs that life creates. But there are a number of objections I would like, Mr Minister, even at the last minute - to see them. Because such drafts of laws that concern such legal persons all concern us and you, as long as you can, must open up your mood and the papers to listen to the opposition. Article 9 is a big overthrow. You improved it, I can't question it. But it is established in Greek law, but also in other countries, to record minority. I think that a regulation is being introduced, which I really must tell you is creating quite a number of questions and - I shall dare say - concern. It is an issue that I think the country's legal world will not agree to a vast majority of this regulation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Article 16 actually introduces, extends if you want the establishment plan of the Legal Council of the State. But you must commit to how long these new institutions will function, because - you know - the Greek political system is found, the Greek legislation by thousands of ministerial decisions, thousands of decrees provided for in laws that have never been adopted. Unfortunately, we also have, as a political system, a weakness here, and there is no commitment of time in the bills, a duty of each government, a duty of each minister to issue the law in a timely manner, if ministerial decisions and decrees are not implemented. And here there is no such arrangement. You have a tendency with all the institutional frameworks that you have brought to overconcentrate the decentralisation of responsibilities. This is an issue that life itself will confirm, because I do not want to be a prophet of bad messages. But there is one thought that this over-concentration will not help. You concentrate the services on the regional headquarters. That is, in my region or your region will be in Lamia or Mesolonghi. Maybe in Agrinio, because there's an appeal, it'll be two. In most regions, however, it will be a service. I think he will not be able to meet the needs. Also on Article 27, Minister, let me say. Moved from verification to probability is enough. Here too there are a number of concerns about exactly what can be liberated into the implementation of decisions. It's a plea justified, which needs attention. As far as Articles 37 and 38 are concerned, I am speaking in your word that it does not give rise to the exclusion of persons with disabilities. And it is right - and I accept it - that if this property is not emasculated, a disabled person can carry out this service. I remain in this satisfaction that there will really be no such exclusion. There is a case, Minister, for the persons of the last invitation to tender. You know, successively all governments absorbed the successors. They are children who waited for six years because of the economic crisis to take part in such a competition. Even at the last minute, look at it. It will be extremely good to have such a set-up. A number of amendments have been tabled. Minister, there is the amendment concerning the banking system.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u216	Please, Mr. Colleague, you've reached ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u217	Mr President, I'll be out in a minute. Mr. Zavvos had promised that the banks would change the profile with which they examined the lending of businesses. It is an issue that you need to see. It is also the amendment tabled by the Minister for Health, in which I will come back and say that this is not the way to convince people and especially the young people who need to be vaccinated. I think it is a common place for all of us, under arrest from the political system which we are asking all people to understand that they have an obligation to be vaccinated. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u218	Thank you. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u219	Just a minute, because I want to say something to Mr. Kurubli, who shows an interest in this. This government has consulted the Legal Council of the State in the case of ‘NOVARTIS’. Three ministries, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Justice requested an opinion. This was never done by the previous government. Contained. In implementing this opinion, the Ministry of Health and Signatories of the Minister of Finance to the Ministry of Justice was sent with a view to implementing the request for legal assistance, i.e. information from the Ministry of Justice of the United States. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u220	We are now continuing with the rapporteurs. Anyone want the floor? Mrs. Konnakka. Here, my colleague, you have the floor for four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u221	Thank you, Mr President. For the bill, I won't say again. We've been discussing protometry in detail. We will only ask the Minister once and for all for the last time to lift the injustice against the undetermined successors of the competition, after the uniformity of the positions of even government MPs, who really cannot support this arbitrary and discriminating treatment that you are making at the expense of these children. In relation to the amendments, we have told you from the outset, and yesterday our Parliamentary spokesman also mentioned several characteristic provisions. It must finally be stopped - I also address the Bureau - the practice that is being followed where there are no rules in place between them. It is characteristic that, for an amendment, different ministers are parading to support one - one of the articles in the amendment. You cannot ask us to vote by one vote. In other words, you must legislate and ask us to place us in logic "three of oil, three vinegar, three and the oil". This thing is really problematic and has to stop. I shall refer only to the amendment by the Ministry of Health, which also has such contradictory provisions, firstly, in relation to cheapness, to allow me to speak, to provide students with 50GB. The government continues on such a serious issue to overrule the logic of individual responsibility, and indeed, in its most degenerated form. You cannot hide with these measures that schools open up as they have been closed, without any measures to protect the health of students. That is to say, the measures that have led to previous years in the open and on the television screens. You cannot hide the absence of complete information, which creates the fears of vaccination, but above all the absence of an integrated primary health system, which could also cover the population's vaccination needs with the necessary personalised information, with all the necessary free preventive tests, but also the necessary epidemiological surveillance and pharmacovigilance, which is needed in such cases. Instead of that it spreads even more about the responsibility for vaccination in private and private centres with various provisions, which have already been extensively commented, which too can not bring results, but all that succeeds is to serve if you want the government's account of doing something in the field of vaccination, but above all to consolidate the logic of PPPs in the world, a logic that really collapsed miserably during the pandemic, highlighting the problematic narrative you are serving, as are the previous governments and SYRIZA and PASOK, for the supposedly harmonious coexistence of the public with the private sector. What else does the provision provide for? The extension of the spending limit for hospitals by 17 000 000, i.e. the elimination of the level of this money from Clowback, that is, the amount to be reimbursed by the pharmaceutical companies and others who supply the public. The trick is known, SYRIZA's recruited it before. In fact, the New Democracy MPs are coming today to defend the total abolition of this obligation on private companies to return some of the money they really buzz from the public. Especially during the pandemic period did they really eggs their profits while people were dying. Mercy, it is a challenge on the part of the Members who invoke it. Finally, a debate on the prolongation of the contracts of workers at the OTAs, which were hired for the needs of cleanliness in the midst of the pandemic. It is self-evident and Article 11 and Article 12 that we would like to support them. However, it was a challenge for Mr Voridis, who warned, saying, in any way, that there would be no extension of contracts beyond the quarter. Like they're doing thanks to these people who put back all this time of pandemic. Of course, it excludes the permanentization of these workers. We ask ourselves: will the huge needs of the OTA end after the trimester for cleanliness? Will the pandemic end or will the terrible gaps be covered by magic, which were now much earlier? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u222	Thank you. Mr. Scandalides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u223	First of all, I would like to say about the vote and I will make two - three political comments at the end. Mr Minister, we are voting, as I have said, 'Yes' at the outset. We shall vote 'no' in Article 16 and 'no' in Article 21. As far as the amendments to the amendment by the Ministry of Health are concerned, we will say 'yes'. For the Ministry of Culture we say'residents'. We say 'no' to the themes of the Ministry of Finance, as we say 'no' to the measures to speed up projects and studies, as our Parliamentary spokesman has said, is 'no'. The amendment that has been made to this bill, Mr Minister, is a disgrace. You have put an amendment to that in the bill as an article and the amendment has articles in it. The article has articles in it. It's an extra-parliamentary procedure, that's not customary. To be able to choose where we vote 'yes' and 'no'. Do you not care to separate our position and vote elsewhere 'yes' and 'no'? Do you want to smack every time? We vote 'yes' with strong objections to all of this, for this parliamentary practice. I think it is unacceptable. Mr President, the Minister, in his own words and his constant tactics, has taken all the measures taken by the government again - he is also used to it, and we have commented on it many times - and he has made us dissatisfied the figures showing the soundness and health of the economy and the development miracle that is being carried out in the country. But, Minister, the numbers may prosper, but people are suffering and poor. The people and passive receivers of the problems that pandemic, natural disasters accumulate, and especially tolerance, which is spread everywhere. Negligence because, after the return, a huge number of businesses will go bankrupt, as will a large number of entrepreneurs squeeze under their exclusion from the supposedly endless liquidity available to banks. I, Minister, did not question the figures, not because I cannot, but because it is not the time. I'll see you in the budget. But you did not answer the substance of the questions, which I have put in terms of the directions and type of benefits and their medium-term effects, which, when the country reintroduces fiscal restrictions, such as debt, private debt, bankrupt enterprises and poorer populaces, will suffer the huge consequences. I do not think it is accidental that the Prime Minister indirectly, through his response to the issue of elections and post-election partnerships, opened up an issue of electoral in which Mr Tsipras was elected. It has entered a process perhaps because the aim of when the country will enter the budget restrictions will be the one which will most likely impose early elections at any time. So, with our principles, we are all good, but with our tactics, we will determine and, in our party interest, what will happen. The Prime Minister was entirely predictable at the Thessaloniki Exhibition with the known impulse. While Mr. Tsipras said that he had to appear as a Prometheus who brought the fire, he chose to present himself as Andreas Papandreou, who would raise the sun above Greece. I believe that today's debate is closing with this political process and I have the impression that the next few days, the next few weeks and the next few months will be very interesting politically for the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u224	Mrs Eleftheriadou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u225	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you have come to tell us at the end that, after you have been consulted by the Legal Council of the State, you will contact the US authorities to obtain information to file a complaint against NoVARTIS. Let me remind you that the opinion of the Legal Council of State took place in December 2020 and ten months have passed. The out-court compromise of "NOVARTIS" in America has spent a year and a half, and "NOVARTIS" has accepted to pay 340,000 euros for corruption operations in our country. Let me remind you that in the opinion of the Legal Council of the State, you are told that we can file a complaint. The evidence is overwhelming in favour of our country. We have very serious weapons in our legal arsenal. Nevertheless, you now come ten months after the opinion and one and a half years after the extrajudicial compromise, to tell us in this bill that you will be addressing the US authorities, and we should have gone ahead and we could already have enough money from the state funds in this case. This raises many questions about the attitude of your Government in this case, which he used to call construction over time, and this is a great scandal. As far as the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection is concerned, it is in your argument that the remarks he made relate to words of minor importance and without substance, the only thing you are doing is to downgrade it and degrade its work. Of course it is not our role to repeat what the Scientific Committee of the Parliament says, and that is why, since time is very limited, I will only read to you that in one of its comments it says that its observation does not seem to be a detailed matter. If you want, we should also have a debate on which of the comments were essential and which were not, because one word in a legal text can change its content and, of course, lead to its vote or vote. In Amendment No 1068, all your speakers speak only of ODA. No one argued in favour of Article 1, which ‘KATHMERINI’ in an article on 23-8-2021 calls a temporary breath for banks. I'd call it a scandal, but because the words bother you, I'd call it a ruffetty in the banks. Unless you dismantle the Hardouvelis Act, Law 4172/13, which said that if a bank has damage to a financial crisis, securities are issued for the public. You, with Article 1 of Amendment No 1068, allow banks to set aside for 20 years the losses which may arise from 1-12021 due to titration or sale of loans. In this way, however, there is no risk - for the banks at risk, I do not know about you - of public equity participation due to losses. So you're abolishing the Hardouvelis law? Mr Vorides has asked that the amendment tabled by Members of the SYRIZA under number 1069 be rejected. We should at some point in the New Democracy learn the difference between a project contract, a contract of fixed working time and an indefinite contract of conditional work. When one covers either the private sector or the public sector with fixed and continuous needs, it must have an indefinite contract. As regards the COMMON, Mr Vorides mentioned as the only solution, he referred to a law of the SYRIZA of 2016. So what's he suggesting? To make a partnership, these workers, for example, cleanliness and commercial property, become a public contractor. That is not the point of establishing the COMIPs. COMMUNICATIONS can only function as a subsidiary to public bodies, covering gaps that the State cannot cover in time and efficiently. That could be the case. At the moment there are gaps, they cover constant and constant needs, and another solution must be found rather than the one Mr Vorides has put forward. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Every time I hear Mr Brutsi talk about the work done by the New Democracy and you talk about the help you have given in the middle class, I really wonder if you believe it yourself. The truth is that we received empty funds, unregulated debt, 25% lower GDP, irrational commitments, we were faced with a humanitarian crisis and we did everything we could within a period of memoranda. What did you do? Once you got out of the country's governance, you abolished the right reason to dismiss the protection of workers from contractors, brought the labour bill, which Mr Brutsis forgets every time he talks about, and I will not say that you abolished the eighth hour, but you legalised the tenth hour. That's the difference, it was legitimized in the tenth. You have increased the overtime limit, you have released redundancies and all we have said dozens of times. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll just ask you something, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u226	Finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u227	And to finish. Because there was a lot of talk about this measure, the tax-free transfer of up to 800,000 euros of assets, money, shares, dividends, shares and dividends I don't know many to have, actually, I don't know anyone. You, obviously, know a lot of people. What is the benefit of those with property, money, dividends and shares up to EUR 150,000 in relation to what is currently in force? Up to 150,000 euros has 83% of our country's population. 83%!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u228	Money?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u229	Money, I don't know a lot of people to have. Imovable property up to 150,000 euros, then, has 83% of the population, of VDUs paying HVOs, to say it differently. Therefore, if they were to transfer them up to now, they would not be taxed. Also, in money, if the parents were to transfer EUR 150,000 to buy first home, they would still not be taxed. You don't have a picture of what's going on around you, you don't have a picture of the reality. EUR 150,000 is a huge figure for us. Huge!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u230	Freeze?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u231	And in real estate, 150,000 euros has 83%. I don't say it, and "KATHMERINA" says it in her article, they say it...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u232	You've increased the objective!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u233	Mr. Chakalotos...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u234	So up to EUR 150,000 no benefit in transfers. So who are you legislating for? You are thinking of them - I am finishing, Mr President - who have real estate. What will be the benefit of these people? By 300,000 euros a transfer would pay 1,000 euros. In other words, 1,000 euros will be saved by those who have a fortune of up to 300,000 euros. Those who have 600,000 euros would now pay 16,500 euros. You're getting away with them, that is, 16,500 euros. Those with real estate 800,000 euros get away with your law of 36,000 euros. Do you understand the difference? Don't tell us you're legislating about the middle class. Unless the middle class, for you, is the ones that have great properties, i.e. 13% of the Greek population that has so much real estate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u235	Mr Spankis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u236	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today and we are ready to vote on a bill concerning the Statute of the Legal Council of the State. It has been nine hours and there has been a detailed debate, not only on the bill but also on the amendments. Let me begin, Mr President, by saying that I will forget both the economic and the taxation I know. I'm really talking to you! I would like to address the Greek people through this Chamber, because the New Democracy quotation supports and respects the Greek family. What did the Prime Minister of the country say at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition? He said that we are abolishing the donation or parental benefits tax to the first degree of affinity, that is to say, the child should take from the father or even from Grandpa and Grandmother and you now come to risk and throw oil into the fire, downgrade and underestimate a measure that you have never dared to bring, to respect the Greek family! When you for the last 50 months did not bring in a debt arrangement and the debtor only had the possibility of adjusting up to 12 instalments. The New Democracy Government in the first piece of legislation, which I also had the honour of being rapporteur, with the Minister of Christos Stakouras, brought a huge possibility of regulating debts in many instalments, brought down to HISH. What were you telling us back then? Same and the same! I come to tell you with all due respect, Mrs Eleftheriadou, to your face: did we increase the objective values? You want tomorrow or the day after the HIS clearing houses come out to show you how much you've increased...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u237	Show them to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u238	...to the Ministry of Finance then, in the government of SYRIZA, the objective values in Gijifia, Glyfada, Alimos, Moschato, the Painting Artist? So don't come and tell this room inaccurate and lies to the Greek people. It's a measure that enables grandparents, which enables father to write a property on his child and his grandchildren. Because we respect the Greek family. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are bringing a bill and we must answer three questions. Was that necessary to change the Statute of the Legal Council of the State? I think we'll agree here. And it is not only the groups that agree, but we have also heard the trade unions of the workers, the officials and the administrative bodies of the Legal Council. If, of course, a party disagrees, it means that no one wants the upgraded role of the State Law Council, which has a serious assistance to all ministries, universities, independent authorities and, of course, with a full geographical coverage for the whole country. What we have to point out in closing the debate, Mr President, is that we have not heard any specific proposals on the upgrading of the Legal Council of the State, rather than we have seen a bid on things that this government has solved with this piece of legislation. They spoke on the side of SYRIZA about respect for the parliamentary procedure. I say to them that this bill of 12 New Democracy colleagues were put in place, and on the SYRIZA side they did not exceed four - five colleagues. I say this with regard to respect for the parliamentary procedure. In fact, as rapporteur, I would like to thank my fellow Members for putting them on the bill. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Two more minutes I'm gonna need it. There have been some important amendments and I would say that there is a need for amendments. In simple terms, an amendment was tabled to speed up projects and studies to control and regulate flooding flows. I ask: should we not shield our areas? I, as a government MP, tabled a question and asked for the shielding of the Kifissus and Ilissus rivers, and that means speeding up works. This amendment, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, will you vote against it, when with this amendment we create the conditions to go into accelerating and actually shield the areas that we had a problem with the fires, such as the Attica basin, Evia, the Peloponnese and many other regions of the country? As far as ODA is concerned, the Minister with a specific amendment dares and ensures a company and its interests. In conclusion, I would like to say that with regard to contracts extended for a quarter that the request for self-government was for an eight-month period. It's coming for a quarter, and from there, no one has ruled out anything. We simply want to do our job well, and these local government workers have exceeded themselves in regions and other organisations. So you see that at the moment we are legislating properly and we are legislating why we need to legislate to overcome whatever difficulties and in addition to the exceptional circumstances created by the health crisis, we legislate and upgrade organisations such as the Legal Council of State. That is why I think we should vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u239	We're finishing up with the Minister. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u240	I had decided not to take the floor, but my dear colleague at the Officerial Response challenged me and proved once again that she and her party are in ideological and political triumph. I would like to say that you started in the first debate of the committee, saying with heavy expressions that it is out of reality and that it is against the public interest. Then withdraw these expressions. The reality has devastated your expectations. You spoke of a lack of dialogue. The agencies have disproved your expectations. You spoke - not personally, but colleagues of your party - of costly measures in Thessaloniki on the part of Officerial Response. I have caused them, and I have not even heard for the first time that they have no cost, but they also benefit from measures. You spoke of legal proceedings and that this government is delaying. What did you do? You've done nothing. Because I am very accurate on the dates and I am not arrogating, the document of the Legal Council of State came 26 July 2021 under Protocol number 8620-26-7-21, registered 30-7-21 under Protocol number 235-1121/4392. Therefore, not only did we start the process, but we are also taking the steps that the Legal Council of State tells us to follow and recommend us. So be very careful when you say: What are you doing all these months? Here is the document and I have it at your disposal. You spoke of standing administrative practice in relation to the tenders of the Legal Board of State. Have you searched them? Competition 2001, thirty-two openings, 30-five appointments. Competition 2003, seventeen notice posts, twenty-three appointments, one-year extension. 11 posts, 12 appointments.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u241	All of them were appointed, the successful ones.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u242	Not all the painting. You're messing with it. In 2007, 30-five post notices, 30-one appointments. In 2012 position notices 20, appointments twenty-one with extension.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u243	We don't call the perpetrators, but the successful ones.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u244	The successful board of participants was not exhausted.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u245	It's not the same.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u246	The competition was clear and all that was different was in the 2013 competition. So it was not permanent administrative practice. Let's go to the last question. Let's say that someone has a 1,000 euros - I don't think it's a rich family the father has a 1,000 euros - and he wants to donate it to his child. Does he pay tax or does he not pay?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u247	He won't have to eat...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u248	If I may, does the father want to donate to the child a thousand euros, pay tax today or not? You said it was tax-free. It's not tax-free, it pays 10%. That no longer applies! Is it about the low income layers and the middle family? So we go first of all to the movable property and I'll come back for the real estate. But let's get to it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u249	We're kidding, we don't agree!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u250	If you'll excuse me, I've never used it in here and I'm serious about it. It's not a mock. I'm telling you, there's a parent or a grandparent of 2,000 euros, 4,000 euros, and he wants to donate them to the child for rent, he wants to donate them to get a car. This has so far been taxed with 10% on its own. Do we agree with the other colleagues? All parties agree, only you disagree. They were taxed at 10%. This is no longer taxed. We therefore offer a substantial solution to the donations relating to money and general securities. Let's at least agree on that. Let's go to the real estate.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u251	Tell me how much they get away with!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u252	It's just math since it's 10%.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u253	You should tell people to listen to it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u254	Wait a minute, this is where we had a basic disagreement if they'd get away with it and now they're changing the scores and we're talking about how much! I'm glad at least because we agreed that so far you haven't told the truth! So we agree that now citizens are getting away with it. Whether they're getting away with a lot or a few, let them judge themselves when they do the same donations. Let's go to the real estate. In real estate - I will agree with you - until a height was tax-free, and we increase this to 800,000 euros. I'm asking a simple question. 160,000 to 180,000 are eighteen thousand nine hundred ninety-three natural persons. Are they the rich? 150,000 said they weren't the rich. Don't tell me that the 160,000 suddenly become rich. So 160,000 to 180,000 benefiting - not benefiting - eighteen thousand households potentially, if they do this donation, they have a benefit, they have tax free they didn't. Are we helping these eighteen thousand ninety-three families? With 180,000, 200,000, I don't think they're the rich. In any case, you also smiled in Thessaloniki that up to a height could be increased. It's ninety-one thousand, thirty-six families. Are they rich or are they in the middle class? Are we helping them, too? From 200,000 to 250,000 -- and this perimeter you put in verbal means -- it's a hundred fifty-four thousand ninety natural persons. Only in these three categories I've put about three hundred thousand of our compatriots on the basis of official figures. What are you going to tell these only three hundred thousand compatriots? We come in three hundred thousand compatriots and say that if you want to donate to your child the property and have that value of property, you won't pay tax while you were paying. What are you going to say to this part of the middle class? Well, we're practically helping the middle class. So, in conclusion, we come along and follow a policy of up to 800,000 euros, not 800,000. The large range is in the low assets that were tax free anyway, and in those gammas that I mentioned earlier, and we are coming to securities for the first time, we are not taxing them. I want to see what you will say, not in these gammas, in all the Greek families small on income criteria, medium and large, which can now give their children or their grandchildren a donation from one euro, 1,000 euros, 10,000 euros up to 800,000 euros. To all of them, what are you going to say that the middle class and the lowest income classes, which so far have been taxed autonomously with 10%? I hope you will correct your error.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u255	The debate on the principle and the articles of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "A body of the Law Council of the State (NCCC) and the situation of its officials and employees" is hereby concluded. We are entering the vote on principle, on the articles of the amendments and on the whole, and they will be voted on separately. I would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, a hundred and twenty-five articles, four amendments, a farewell article and the whole bill. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u256	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u257	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u258	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Organisation of the Law Council of the State (NCCC) and the situation of its officials and servants and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and of the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u259	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u260	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-21-S1-commons.u261	With the consent of the House at 20.46 hours the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Wednesday 22 September 2021 and 9.00 hours, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
